DRN -2699047  
 
 
 
 
 
The complaint  
 
X complains that they were given unsuitable advice by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management  Ltd (WFM)  when  they recommended  them  to buy unquoted  shares  in Elysian 
Fuels Plc (EF) and sell them to their Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  
 
Xs partner  also invested.  Their  complaint  is being  dealt  with separately.  
 
What happened  
 
In July 2013  one of WFMs  financial  advisers  (who  Ill refer to as A) completed  a fact find 
with X and their partner. The following was noted:  
 
X and their partner  lived together  with two children.  They  had assets  of £1,224,000  which 
consisted of:  
 £4k in cash 
 a house  worth  £120k  
 buy to let property  worth  £160k  
 holiday  home  worth  £300k  
 unit trust of £640k  
 
Their respective incomes were noted as £30k. The majority of the form including sections 
on liabilities,  income  and expenditure,  existing  pension  arrangements  etc was left blank  and 
had notes stating not prepared to disclose.  
 
The priority  was lump  sum investments  and the couple  was classified  as high net worth 
clients (they also signed declarations confirming this). The ongoing service level was 
determined as basic customer, defined as customers who require a low service level 
without ongoing adv ice or a close personal servicing relationship.  
 
As notes said they were quite willing to take risks on this investment and talked about 
unquoted  shares.  They  did not want  advice  on any other  area as this is an IFA and quite 
capable of running things.  
 
A risk profile  showed  X and their partner  to be adventurous.  
 
In August  X opened  Self- Invested  Personal  Pensions  (SIPP)  for them  and their partner  in 
their capacity  as a financial  adviser  and around  £56k  from an existing  personal  pension  
was transferred into Xs SIPP. A further employer contribution of £12,000 was made to the 
SIPP from the couples financial adviser firm.  
 
In September A issued a suitability report recommending X to buy 66,000 £1 shares in 
Elysian  Fuels  30 Plc. X was advised  to invest  £8,481  and the remaining  investment  was 
provided  through  a limited  recourse  loan.  Their  partner  was recommended  to buy 50,000  
£1 shares,  again  with the majority  being  financed  by a loan.  As part of the investment  
scheme  a Limited  Liability  Partnership  (LLP)  was set up with X and their partner becoming 
members of the LLP.  
 
In October the EF shares were sold to the SIPP. The paperwork was submitted to the 
SIPP provider through A. X also signed a statement for self -certified s ophisticated 
investors for the SIPP provider in which they declared amongst other things that they 
understood  this was an unregulated  investment,  they understood  the terms  and 
conditions of the investment and the charges involved and the risks of the inves tment 
and was comfortable taking them. X specifically noted on the declaration that they had 
been an IFA for the past 13 years and fully understood the unquoted shares being 
purchased.  
 
Not too long afterwards, HMRC started investigating the arrangements a round the EF 
investments  and questioned  the original  value  of £1 per share  and how transactions  were 
treated for tax purposes. It treated the payments from the SIPP as unauthorised 
payments. X and their partner were requested by HMRC a few years later to pay over  
£63,000  to settle  their tax liabilities.  They  hold WFM  responsible  for these  charges  due to 
the poor advice they think they gave.  
 
X knew  A personally  as they had been  business  partners  for many  years.  X says it was A 
who introduced them and their  partner to the EF investment. They say the proposition 
from the start was to sell the shares to a SIPP to shelter them for tax benefits and that A 
recommended a particular SIPP provider as it would accept those shares.  
 
X says they  and their partner  were  aware of  the risk of  the shares going  up and down  in 
value  and they are not complaining  about  this. However,  they say they didnt  know  about 
becoming members of an LLP. And if they had been informed about the potential tax 
implications of selling the shares to the SIPP and that this could be open to HMRC 
investigations they wouldnt have undertaken the investment. They say that was beyond 
any risk they wanted to take and it didnt fulfil their objectives which was to make the 
shares tax efficient with the potential for capital growth within the SIPPs. X says although 
they are a financial adviser they didnt deal with this type of product and had no 
experience in investment products such as EF.  
 
WFM  didnt  uphold  Xs complaint.  They  said they didnt  give X advice  about  what  to do 
with their shares once they bought them. They say they didnt advise them to open a SIPP 
or sell the shares to it. So they shouldnt be held responsible for the consequences of 
these actions.  
 
X disagreed and referred their compl aint to our service. Our investigator didnt think Xs 
complaint should be upheld. They thought, on balance, given their general experience 
about investments as a financial adviser and the risk warnings given to them about the 
investment,  the consequences  they are  now experiencing  were  reasonably  foreseeable  to 
them.  
 
X didnt  agree  and so their complaint  was passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.  
 
What Ive decided   and why 
 
Ive considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
 
provisional  findings  
 
I issued  a provisional  decision  in which  I explained  that I didnt  intend  to uphold  Xs complaint. 
I said:  WFM recommended X and their partner to buy the EF shares. However, there has be a 
dispute about who introduced X and their partner to the EF investment. The suitability 
report  mentions  they had heard  about  it from a friend  and so WFM  says it wasnt  A. X is 
adamant it was A who told them about this investment opportunity. They said A had also 
contacted other former colleagues.  
 
I cant know for certain who introduced X and their partner to EF. However, I think on 
balance  its likely  that it was A. X and A had been  longstanding  business  partners  and Xs 
company became an appointed representative of WFM in October 2013, so its likely they 
were  in close  contact  at that time.  And this service  has seen  other  complaints  where  WFM 
advised on EF, so A would have likely been familiar with the investment.  
 
I find it plausible that the friend referred to in the suitability report was A. In a 
questionnaire about unquoted shares from the SIPP provider, when X was asked where 
they had heard about the investment, they said my IFA which I think ca n also reasonably  
be assumed  to be A as they were  advising  them  on this investment.  In any event, whoever 
the couple heard about EF from first, its clear A advised on the purchase of EF shares, so 
they had to make sure this was suitable.  
 
Its also disput ed whether A recommended that the shares would be sold to a SIPP. 
WFM  is correct  when  they say that theres  no written  recommendation  from WFM  about 
selling the shares to a SIPP and a particular provider. However, I think on balance its 
likely the sale of  the shares to the SIPP was always part of the investment proposition 
and that A would have suggested to the couple this was the way to go about it.  
 
In the notes  for the  fact find A said: 
 
I said if they went  down  this route  [unquoted  EF shares]  either  to put them  in an offshore 
trust or in a pension so that they avoid paying tax. This was again mirrored in the 
suitability report where A said:  
 
One point is that is important to both of you is the ability to shelter possible future gains. 
You asked me for my suggestions on this and I explained that you have two options; you 
could  look to sell the shares  to your pension  or set up an offshore  trust.  You confirmed  that 
you would like to proceed with the purchase of shares and then discuss the two options in 
detail at a later date.  
 
I think the above indicates that A was the one who suggested the option of putting the 
shares in a pension to avoid tax. Given what this service has seen on other cases against 
WFM, EF shares were regularly sold to SIPP s with this particular provider. Selling the 
shares to a SIPP together with having a large limited recourse loan had the benefit of 
releasing a lump sum of cash from the pension without paying income tax and in some 
cases before retirement age, so the whol e EF investment looked particularly attractive 
when  sold to a pension.  I think  the sale of EF shares  to a SIPP  would  have  likely  been  part 
of the overall investment proposition from the outset.  
 
X opened the SIPPs for them and their partner in their capacity as a financial adviser 
shortly  after they had met with A, so on balance  I think  the conversations  with A triggered 
this action. X said they opened the SIPP and dealt with the transfer of pension funds 
themself as they didnt want to pay additional  charges for something they could do on 
their own which  I find plausible.  I dont  think  this is necessarily  evidence  that it was their 
idea to open the SIPPs and sell the shares to it and WFM had nothing to do with this. I 
think its more likely X understo od from their conversations with A that they would need 
SIPPs for the investment and so went ahead and opened them.  Ive also considered that A was involved after the SIPP had been opened. Ive seen 
evidence that it was them who sent the nece ssary forms and documents for the EF share 
sale to the SIPP  provider.  Again  this suggests  to me that A was involved  in arranging  the 
whole investment through the SIPP.  
 
X says they and their partners complaint isnt about the investment risk of the shares 
itself,  but about  the tax consequences  they now face due to the sale of the shares  to the 
SIPP.  
 
In their complaint  letter  to WFM,  X and their partner  said they knew  this was a high-risk 
investment  and that the capital  invested  to purchase  the share s could  be lost. They  were 
prepared to accept this risk for the chance of success in the long term. Looking at the 
couples assets at the time and the relatively low amount they were investing from their 
own capital I think they not only had the risk appetite to invest into EF,  but also had the 
required capacity for loss. In the suitability report it was mentioned that the lump sum 
would be made from monies held on deposit and that they had confirmed it was 
affordable.  
 
In more  recent  correspondence  with this service  X said that having  £640k  in unit trusts 
was a fabrication and they and their partner werent high net worth clients. However, X 
and their partner signed the fact find which set out these assets to say that the 
information included was accurate and they also signed hi gh net worth client 
declarations.  
 
X also noted on a sophisticated investor declaration (which I refer to further below) that 
the shares they were purchasing represented less than 6% of their wealth. And these 
assets were included on the limited recourse l oan application X signed. So overall Im 
satisfied  X and their partner  had the necessary  net-worth  to be able to enter  these  high- 
risk investments and absorb potential losses.  
 
I also consider X to be a sophisticated investor. They might not have dealt wi th 
unregulated  investments  in their professional  capacity,  but they had been  a financial  
adviser for many years and so they would have understood the uncertainty of high risks 
investments. I think they also would have understood that this was a non -standar d 
investment which was complex and I think they would have been able to understand the 
information brochures given to them.  
 
Given their professional background I think it would have been reasonable for A to rely on 
X asking questions if they thought they didnt understand from the information they were 
given  how the investment  worked  or if anything  was unclear.  On balance  I dont  think  the 
recommendation for X to buy EF shares was unsuitable.  
 
X said they and their partner werent told about being a member of an LLP which led to 
problems with HMRC later on too as they didnt declare this. Ive looked at what further 
written information they were given about the EF investment and their membership of an 
LLP. The suitability report referred to the couple  having received all supporting literature 
including the Brochure. And they both also signed declarations for the SIPP provider 
saying  that they were  fully aware  of both the style and terms  of the Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension investment opportunity ou tlined in the accompanying prospectus titled Elysian 
Fuels No 30 PLC.  
 
The Elysian Fuels  Brochure said: 
 
This  offers  investors  the opportunity  to invest  in a UK limited  liability  partnership.  The Partnership will consist of individual members and a corporate member. Individuals 
who subscribe  for non-redeemable  preference  shares  in the corporate  member  may also 
subscribe directly for an interest in the partnership. ...  
 
Although individual members will be responsible for day  to day management and control 
of the business, this is expected to be limited to monthly partnership meetings and 
occasional correspondence, together with some limited additional work commitment.  
 
Partners  should  seek  their own tax advice  to confirm  the applicable  tax treatment  in 
respect to their involvement in the Elysian Corporate and the Elysian Partnership.  
 
The brochure also showed a drawing of the financial structure which showed individual 
partners  paying  the majority  of capital  to the corporate  member  and a small  percentage 
into the LLP.  
 
Further,  the loan agreement  X and their partner  signed  also said the following:  
 
Prior  to drawdown  the Borrower  shall submit,  in a form satisfactory  to the Lender  such 
information and documents as the Lender shall reasonably require, including but not 
limited to:  
 
(a) a Notice  of Drawdown  substantially  in the form set out in Schedule  1; 
(b) a security agreement (the "LLP interest Security Agreement") from the Borrower in 
favour of the Lender over the Borrower's membership in and all rights and 
entitlements in respect of the Elysian Fuels 30 LLP  
and 
(c) a guarantee  and debenture  (the "LLP  Guarantee  and Debenture")  from the LLP 
in respect of all its assets including its rights to receive amounts under certain 
contracts.  
 
This Agreement,  the LLP Interest  Security  Agreement,  the LLP Guarantee  and 
Debenture and any related documents shall toget her constitute the "Finance 
Documents for the purpose of the Agreement  
 
In the Repayment  section  of the agreement  it said: 
 
..the aggregate amount which the Borrower has received and the segregate amount  
the Borrower  is entitled  to receive  but not yet received  (being  amounts  before  any tax or 
other expenses), by virtue of their membership interest in the LLP  
 
.. received  by the Borrower  upon  a disposal  of their membership  interest in the LLP 
 
And in the General  Undertakings  Section  it reads:  
 
..the  Borrower  shall not enter  into a single  transaction  or a series  of transactions  [] to 
sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of its interests in the LLP . [my emphasis]  
 
X and their partner  also signed  application  forms  for the Partnership  Interest which 
confirmed their respective capital contribution to the Partnership.  
 
Having  looked  at all of the above  I think  X and their partner  more  likely  than not knew that 
membership of an LLP was involved as part of the investment.  X says A didnt  fully explain  the potential  tax implications  of selling  the shares  to the 
scheme  or the possibility  of HMRC  investigating  the scheme.  I dont  know  what  exactly 
was discussed with X. A unfortunately has passed away and so we cant obtain their 
testimony on this either.  
 
I can see that the suitability  report  included  risk warnings  which  said amongst  other  things:  
 
 The tax status  of the scheme  could  change and  is not guaranteed  
 Your  loan facility  could  be challenged  by the HMRC  
 The share  valuation  could  be challenged  by HMRC  
 The tax status of  the project could  change  and is not guaranteed  
 The project  contains  numerous  interested  parties  and contractual  obligations,  if 
you do not understand  the nature  of your commitment  or any of the documents 
you should seek professional legal advice before proceeding.  
 
The EF brochure  also included  a warning  which  said: 
 
Following a period of consultation and subsequent legislation in Part 5 of the Finance Bill 
2013. it is expected that a General Anti Abuse Rule, ("GAAR) will be part of UK 
legislation with effect from Royal Assent to the Bill expected in early August 2013. 
This legislation  will permit  [HMRC]  to counteract  the tax consequences  of certain  structures 
that have been deemed as being contrary to the GAAR principleswhere, in the opinion of 
HMRC  and the GAAR  Advisory  Panel,  there  has been  aggressive  avoidance  of tax which  is 
contrary  to Government  policy,  action  can be taken.  The legislation  in this area is laid out in 
the form of guidance supported by examples. Whilst extensive, it is not free from 
interpretation or always clear. Future Capital Partners are not tax advisers and as such are 
not able to offer any opinion or commentary upon whether this particular proposal IS likely 
to be affected  by the GAAR  provisions  and if so, what  counteraction  might  be considered . It 
is recommended that appropriate legal advice is taken as to the possible effects of 
the GAAR on this proposal . 
On 20th May 2013, HM Revenue and Customs issued a Consultation Document entitled 
Partnerships - A review of two aspects of the tax rules. This document identifies what 
HMRC considers to be two situations that lead to loss of tax revenues and which in their 
opinion require rem edial action. Those areas are firstly the disguising of employment 
relationships  as partnership  arrangements  and secondly,  the allocation  of profits  and losses 
in ways  that seek  a tax advantage with legislation  being proposed  to be effective  from 
6th April  2014. The applications of the proposed rules are very uncertain at this stage and 
are expected to be made clearer as a result of the Consultation processUntil this 
legislation has been seen and analysed , it is not possible to state, with any certainty, 
how these proposals may impact this opportunity  
 
Its possible that X wasnt informed in detail how HMRC could challenge the investment 
or what the consequences would look like in detail. However, the general warnings in the 
suitability letter and the above warning in the EF brochure I think were reasonable to 
make X, a financial adviser, aware there was a risk of HMRC getting involved  and 
disagreeing  with how the EF investments  and structures  were  treated  for tax purposes.  
 
I think  the warnings  above  would have  given  them  enough  indication  that the investment 
and its tax status could be challenged by HMRC. It also refers to the possibility of the 
share valuation being challenged which is exactly what happened.  X didnt  advise on  unregulate d investments.  However,  I cant ignore  that X held  an 
authorised function for a principal firm they were an appointed representative for allowing 
them  to advise  on pensions  including  SIPPs.  In the suitability  report  it is also noted  that 
as you [X] are an adviser you confirmed that you did not require advice in any other 
areas such as pensions, existing investments or protections as you deal with this 
personally.  
 
I think they would have understood that the investment through the SIPP me ant they were 
effectively releasing funds prior to age 55 which they would have known was generally not 
allowed  from a pension,  unless  in exceptional  circumstances  like severe  ill-health.  And that 
receiving  this money  without  the deduction  of income  tax meant they were  avoiding  tax 
which is likely to have been one of the key attractions of this investment.  
 
I also think that X would have known from their experience as a financial adviser that if 
HMRC  considered  any pension  payments  as unauthorised  they would apply  charges  and 
penalties  and pursue customers for  these.  So I think on  balance  X would  have known that 
the investment they were making could be challenged by HMRC and I think they would 
have understood there was a risk they could in these circumstances face tax charges.  
 
I appreciate  that X said they paid WFM  for advice  and if they had the necessary  knowledge 
and experience for this kind of investment they wouldnt have needed to involve WFM and 
pay for their services. However, X didnt hav e the necessary authorisations to deal with this 
type of investment, so the fact that they used WFMs services and experience in buying the 
shares and selling them to the SIPP which included a lot of paperwork makes sense.  
 
I dont think the fact X didnt have the necessary permissions and used WFMs  services 
means that they had no understanding whatsoever of what they were investing into and 
about the risks (including the uncertain tax situation) the investment presented. On 
balance  I think  its likely A promoted  the investment  to them  and they were  attracted  by 
the tax benefits  it could  offer and/or  the cash  they could  access  from they and their 
partners  pensions. X said himself they wouldnt have bought the shares if they werent to 
be sold to a SIPP. So it wasnt just a pure share investment they were after.  
 
I think X had the experience and knowledge to understand the kind of risk they were 
taking and based on their assets at the time they did have the capacity to absorb any 
potential  tax conseq uences.  As I said above,  I believe  X when  they say it was A who 
promoted this investment to them and their partner and they did use A to arrange this 
investment for them as it seems they had the necessary authorisation and experience of 
how to do this.  
 
In the suitability report A noted that X had asked them to arrange the investments as they 
didnt deal with this type of product. X also told us they never signed the suitability report as  
they thought  it was so badly  written  and the objectives  set out  in the report were  standard 
cut and paste inclusions which wasnt anything they had told A. The report also didnt 
include  any formal  advice  about  selling  the shares  to a SIPP  or which  SIPP  provider  to use 
which X says A gave them and their partner. If, X was completely reliant on As advice and 
what  they were telling them, I would have expected them to raise these issues and not 
proceed based on what they considered a bad quality and generic report which didnt 
reflect their discussions and advice given.  
 
On balance I think its more likely X had made the decision to invest after A had 
promoted  the investment  to them.  They  used  As assistance  to arrange  the parts  they 
couldnt do without the right authorisations. I think its unlikely X, being a financial a dviser, 
would have blindly relied on As recommendation to invest and taken out substantial  
loans  without  making  sure they generally  understood  and was happy  with what  they were  doing.  On balance  I think  X would  have  invested  with or without  WFMs 
advice.  
 
In these  particular  circumstances,  I dont  think  it would  be fair to hold WFM  responsible  for 
the tax charges X is now facing.  
 
responses  to my provisional  decision  
 
WFM  didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision.  X provided  further  comments  which  I 
thank them for. I can assure them I considered their detailed submissions in full, 
however Ill concentrate on what I consider their key points.  
 
X says they  wouldnt  have  known about  EF shares if  A hadnt  approached  them.  They  paid 
A to advise on and implement the purchase of the EF shares and not just to facilitate the 
transaction. X says they didnt need any authorisations to buy the shares as they were 
unregulated.  They  chose  not to do it themself  as they were  paying  A an agreed  fee to 
advise  them.  
 
X said they didnt know about the possible challenge regarding the share price. A didnt 
fully explain  this to them  and they would  have  expected  a detailed  explanation  in the 
suitability report  about  this. After  they received  the suitability  report  with what  they 
considered  a standard warning, A confirmed that they didnt need to be concerned as the 
original share price of £1 had received suitable due diligence by the SIPP provider and 
WFM . They were paying a regulated IFA for advice, so trusted them to provide all the 
correct facts and give full explanations verbally and in writing. They were reassured by A 
that the share price was fair given market circumstances at the time.  
 
With regards to the LLP issue, X says they read the product brochures but feel such an 
important point about the commitments of the investor should have been set out in the 
suitability report. X says A told them that Mr L from Future Capital Partners was t he lead 
representative who dealt with HMRC and therefore they wouldnt be involved in this. A 
didnt explain in detail what becoming a member of an LLP involved and that they would 
need to declare  this on their tax return.  They  query  what  is the point  of paying  for advice  if 
they needed to rely on the brochures alone.  
 
X says they assume  I considered  them  a sophisticated  investor  as they were  an IFA. 
However, any investments they hold personally are medium risk and mainstream products. 
Apart from the EF sha res they were never involved in a sophisticated product.  
 
X has found out  that A also  invested  into EF and their widow was  contacted by  HMRC.  X 
thinks its reasonable to assume that A either didnt understand the HMRC potential 
challenge  to the share  value  or chose  to ignore  it at the time of the investment.  They  also 
say A would have had to complete an LLP partnership return for himself and so would have 
known the importance to disclose this. They think WFM allowed A to advise on unregulated 
investmen ts without them having the necessary knowledge or integrity.  
 
my findings  
 
I appreciate  that X says they paid A for advice  and so they would  have  expected  A to set out 
the details of the investments with its advantages and disadvantages verbally and in the  
suitability report. However, as X has pointed out, the suitability report was generic, it didnt 
include anything about the SIPP and they said they considered it badly written. And the fact 
find was sparse to say the least. If X really needed and was genu inely relying on As advice, 
I dont think its likely they would have accepted this level of service, particularly as they 
would  have  known  from their experience  as an IFA what  a proper  advice  process  should  
have looked like.  I think its more likely that after A had promoted the investment to them X had made the 
decision  to invest,  opened  the SIPPs  and used  As services  to implement  the share  sale to a 
SIPP for them. The suitability report said X wanted A to arrange the investment for  them as 
they didnt deal with this type of investment. And the fee they paid was an implementation 
fee. Even if X could have done this themself, I think its plausible that they used A for their 
experience with this particular investment and all the diffe rent paperwork that was required.  
 
I consider  X a sophisticated  investor  not because  of any personal  investment  choices  they 
might have made in the past, but because of their professional experience. I dont have any 
reason  to disbelieve  that their other  personal  investments  were  mainstream  and not high 
risk. I also dont doubt they didnt advise or deal with unregulated investments. But they 
would have known that this was a non -standard and high -risk investment and given their 
professional knowledge, I think they had the ability to understand the information in the 
brochures. X has confirmed in their response that they knew about pensions and 
unauthorised charges, which means they also would have known that taking money from 
their pension be fore age 55 might have been an issue.  
 
I accept that this doesnt mean they would have had experience with investments where a 
share value could be challenged by HMRC. But they were given a warning about this in the 
suitability  report  and the product  broch ure set out that the scheme  could  be affected  by anti 
tax avoidance legalisation and scrutiny by HMRC.  
 
X said they asked A questions about the share value and the LLP structure and that they 
werent given full and correct information. I dont know what ex actly was discussed at the 
time. And its possible that A reassured X about the share price being reasonable and that  
it had received  due diligence.  However,  I think  based  on the information  they were  given 
they likely would have known that there was still  a risk of HMRC challenging the scheme in 
some way or other and that if this happened, HMRC might pursue them and their partner.  
 
I think  they would  have  known  they were  avoiding  tax and accessing  their pension  earlier  
than was generally allowed. However, I assume similar to A, I think they were prepared to 
take that risk. They  might  have  underestimated  the consequences  or even  possibly  thought  
they would  be able to claim redress from WFM if things went wrong. However, either way, I 
dont think it would be fair in these particular circumstances to request WFM to pay Xs tax 
charges.  
 
 
My final decision  
 
I dont  uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask X to accept or reject my decision be fore 22 April 2021.  
 
Nina Walter  
Ombudsman  