DRN-3565080
The complaint
Mr G complains that he couldnt get through on the phone to Hargreaves Lansdown Asset 
Management Limited (HLAM) when he wanted to give instructions to take up a rights issue.
What happened
Mr G has an execution only share dealing account with HLAM. He had a holding of shares 
which I will refer to as R. In or around October 2020, R announced a rights issue. HLAM 
wrote to Mr G with information about the rights issue on 28 October 2020 and told Mr G it 
needed his instructions  by phone or online  by midday on 9 November.
Mr G phoned HLAM on 9 November and spoke to a member of staff at 11.56am. Mr G 
asked various questions about the rights issue, but still wasnt sure what to do. The member 
of staff told him that it had extended the deadline for instructions and that he had until 
4.30pm to give instructions if he wanted to sell the rights; and until 5pm if he wanted to take 
them up.
Mr G tried to call later in the afternoon to give his instructions but couldnt get through before 
the deadline expired. He complained to HLAM and reminded it of his various health issues. 
He said his health had deteriorated further because of the stress hed been caused by not 
being able to give his instructions.
HLAM said Mr G had been given plenty of notice of the rights issue and set a reasonable 
deadline for instructions. It had extended its deadline  initially to close of business on 
9 November and then to close of business on 10 November to try to capture as many 
instructions as possible. It apologised for the long call waiting times on the afternoon of 
9 November 2020. It explained there had been extraordinary market volumes which led to 
delays in its usual service. It offered £100 to Mr G for the stress hed been caused.
Our investigator thought HLAMs offer of £100 was appropriate. Whilst the call waiting times 
were longer than usual, the investigator thought HLAM had acted reasonably by extending 
its deadline and that, had Mr G persevered, he would have been able to speak to a member 
of staff and give his instructions.
Mr G didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Hes received atrocious service from HLAM, and its staff lack integrity  they dont do 
what they say they are going to do.
The news about the vaccine mustve been announced in the early morning of 
9 November 2020 so HLAM must have known when it spoke to him around mid-day that 
its phone lines were busier than usual. He should have been warned he might not be 
able to get through if he tried to phone in the afternoon.
HLAM should have changed its recorded phone message so that he knew what he 
needed to do to give instructions and so that he knew how long hed have to wait before 
he could speak to somebody.
He was successful in getting through to HLAM on the evening of 9 November. The 
member of staff said he was aware of the problems and that thered been an issue with 
its internet service which led to more calls. But he didnt offer to take Mr Gs instructions.
The decision to further extend the deadline should have been taken in the afternoon of 
9 November.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has told us that he has raised a number of issues and complaints with HLAM about the 
service hes received. This complaint is about Mr G not being able to give instructions for Rs 
rights issue. I cant comment on any other service issues as these are the subject of 
separate complaints.
Ive listened to the recording of Mr Gs call with our investigator which took place after the 
investigator had reached his initial conclusion. Mr G raised a considerable number of points 
during that call and Im not going to respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G has explained his difficult circumstances and his various health issues. And 
I understand, from what hes told us, the difficulties this causes him, particularly as he isnt 
getting the support he needs from professional services. Im sorry for the very difficult 
position Mr G is in on a daily basis. And Ive taken this into account in arriving at my 
decision.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but, having considered everything very carefully, I find I have 
come to the same conclusion as the investigator. Let me explain why.
HLAM wrote to Mr G on 28 October 2020 to tell him about Rs rights issue. Im satisfied Mr G 
was made aware that he had until midday on 9 November 2020 to give his instructions. Its 
unfortunate that Mr G had been particularly unwell and couldnt carry out all the research he 
wanted to before 9 November. I appreciate his individual circumstances may have prevented 
him phoning HLAM any earlier to give his instructions. But Im satisfied HLAM gave Mr G 
reasonable notice of the rights issue.
Mr G s agreement is for an execution only share dealing service. HLAM could not give him 
advice. But, when Mr G called explaining he hadnt had the opportunity to read the financial 
press, HLAM was able to look up the specific publications he mentioned and read the 
articles to Mr G over the phone. In doing so, I find HLAM had an appreciation for Mr Gs 
personal circumstances and that it treated him fairly in trying to help him.
During that call, HLAM explained that it had extended its deadline for instructions until 
4.30pm to sell the rights and 5pm to take up the rights. Mr G mentioned he would probably 
look to sell enough rights to take up the remainder, but that he wasnt ready to give that 
instruction. 
Mr G attempted to call HLAM later that afternoon when he was ready to give his instruction. 
But he couldnt get through. HLAM has explained that it, along with other brokers, received 
an unprecedented volume of contact from clients on 9 November 2020 due to a combination of positive news about a Covid 19 vaccine and the US election outcome, which led to a 
global surge in investor activity. Whilst HLAM did all it could to meet customer demand  for 
example, by extending its opening hours - it would be unreasonable for me to expect HLAM 
to have the infrastructure and staff in place to cope with such an unusually high demand 
from its users. It wouldnt necessarily be commercially practicable given the uniqueness of 
the situation which led to such a high volume of investors wanting to access its service.
Mr G says he should have been warned during his midday call that he might face difficulties 
in getting through on the phone that afternoon. But I dont think HLAM reasonably realised 
the situation it would be in that afternoon. Whilst the UK and European markets had followed 
Tokyos lead in sharply rising prices as a reaction to the US election result, the markets had 
yet to react to the news from Pfizer about its vaccine success. The market rose in reaction to 
this during Mr Gs phone call. As the member of staff was focussed on providing Mr G with 
the information hed requested, he may not have been in a position to fully understand what 
was happening in the market at the same time.
Even if HLAMs member of staff had realised the enormity of the markets reaction, and the 
expectation that prices would rise further when the US markets opened, he wouldnt 
reasonably have realised exceptional level of demand HLAM was going to face over a 
sustained period, which led to some of its customers experiencing difficulties using their 
online accounts. Those customers then tried to contact HLAM by phone, which caused long 
waiting times. Overall, I dont find that HLAM acted unreasonably in not warning Mr G that he 
might face a long wait time when he called back.
I must also take into account that this scenario is covered in HLAMs terms of service and it 
clearly sets out that it cant guarantee that access to, or trading in, accounts will always be 
available or be available without delay. It says in A12:
We cannot guarantee that access to, or trading in, your Accounts via the HL Website, HL 
Mobile Application, by telephone or by post will be available at all times or without delay. You 
acknowledge that the HL Service may be interrupted and the services available may be 
variable in certain circumstances.
Mr G has suggested some of the things he thinks HLAM should have done differently  such 
as changing its recorded messages to make it clear how long the waiting time was; and 
taking the decision to extend the rights issue deadline earlier than it did. I cant comment on 
the way HLAM chooses to operate or the procedures it puts in place  thats a matter for the 
regulator, the Financial Services Authority. Taking into consideration that HLAM experienced 
unprecedented demand, it would have had a number of priorities to deal with and I dont 
think the action it took with regards to Rs rights issue was unreasonable or untimely in the 
difficult circumstances it faced.
Mr G told us he did manage to speak to HLAM on the evening of 9 November. From what 
hes told us, he spoke to a member of staff who was responsible for taking dealing 
instructions for the US market. At this point in time, the extended deadline for instructions 
had expired and the decision to extend the deadline further hadnt been taken. So I dont find 
it unreasonable that HLAM didnt offer to take Mr Gs instructions during this call.
In view of this, I cant reasonably say that the long call waiting times on 9 November 2020 
were unreasonable in the unprecedented circumstances. Im satisfied HLAM has apologised 
to Mr G for the difficulties he had in getting through on the phone and that its offer of £100 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.I appreciate Mr G is unlikely to agree with my decision. And I do understand why he feels so 
strongly about this. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont find HLAM needs to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited should pay Mr G 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman