DRN-3213473
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs T complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has declined to pay for part of 
their home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs T made a claim with Aviva under their home insurance policy when their rented 
property was flooded. Mr and Mrs T were moving home and had sold a previous home and 
moved into the rented property while they waited for their next home to become ready.
Their household goods were stored in the garage of the rented property during this time. 
This property then suffered a flood, damaging the stored goods in the garage. Aviva handled 
the claim and settled most of it to Mr and Mrs Ts satisfaction.
Mr and Mrs T had an electrical charging unit at their previous home which was used for 
charging their car and would normally be fixed to a building. When they moved home, Mr 
and Mrs T had this charging unit removed from the building and stored it in the garage of 
their temporary property with their other household goods. As the temporary property was 
rented, Mr and Mrs T had a home insurance policy with Aviva covering their contents but not 
the buildings.
This charging unit was damaged in the flood. Aviva declined to pay for the damage to the 
unit as they said it was an accessory for a vehicle, and as such was not covered under its 
home insurance policy. Aviva refer to this part of the policy wording in its decision:
Contents doesnt mean the following: motorised vehicles, aircraft, boars, boards and 
craft designed to be used on or in water, caravans, trailers and the parts, spares and 
accessories of any of these
Aviva suggested that Mr and Mrs T should make a claim under their car insurance with 
another provider. The claim was also declined by the other provider. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt agree with Avivas decision so they brought their complaint to this 
service. They want Aviva to include the charging unit as part of their contents insurance 
claim.
Our investigator issued a view that upheld Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. He said Aviva had 
declined the claim on the basis that it said the charging unit was an accessory. Our 
investigator said that the charging unit should be considered as being essential to the use of 
the vehicle, so it wasnt an accessory, part or spare. He said Aviva couldnt exclude it from 
the policy under the exclusion they used. He said that Aviva should include the charging unit 
in the contents claim as Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have reasonably known that it was excluded 
from cover.
Mr and Mrs T agree with our investigators view, but Aviva didnt. It asked for the decision to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why, as my reasoning 
is different from our investigators.
Since our investigator issued his view, there has been further clarification of Avivas position. 
It has said that claims for charging units are now being considered:
under the buildings cover of policies, as standard, until [Avivas] Technical 
Department confirm whether this lies with Household or Motor.
I have already said that Mr and Mrs T were in a rented property at the time of loss and as 
such they werent able to have a buildings policy in force. Aviva have considered this too and 
say:
With clients in rented accommodation, we are also able to add additional cover 
under the tenants liability section of the policy. This would be additional cover, as it 
does not fall within the terms, and would more than likely incur an additional 
premium.
There are some inconsistencies here with the exact nature of Mr and Mrs Ts situation at the 
time the property was flooded, but its important that I say that Aviva have clearly established 
some principles about how a claim of this nature should be handled by it. Those principles 
seem to me to say that the claim for a fixed charging unit, such as the one owned by Mr and 
Mrs T, will be covered under a home insurance policy rather than a motor insurance policy.
In Mr And Mrs Ts situation, the charging unit was not fixed to the building as it had been 
professionally removed from the building of their previous home and was stored in the 
garage for storage purposes before being re-installed on their next home. 
I think it would be unfair for Aviva to exclude Mr and Mrs Ts charging unit from the claim 
simply because the charging unit wasnt fixed to the building at the time of the loss. Mr and 
Mrs T had a clear reason why their charging unit was being stored temporarily in the garage 
so it follows that I think its fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for Mr & Mrs Ts charging 
unit to be repaired or replaced as part of their claim for their household contents.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr and Mrs T, I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to handle the 
claim for the charging unit as being covered under the home contents insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance 
Limited must put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman