DRN-3245996
The complaint
Mr T complains that Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him and 
he could not afford to take the loan. And when he could not repay he felt harassed by the 
company. 
What happened
Mr T was approved for one loan in November 2019 for £1,700 and Mr T had informed 
Everyday Lending it was for debt consolidation purposes. The loan was for 18 months 
repayable at just over £197 each month. The total due to be repaid was £3,552.66. When 
Everyday Lending wrote its final response letter (FRL) to Mr T 0n 11 May 2021, the amount 
paid by Mr T up to that point was £2,565.81. I do not know the up-to-date position on the 
account.
Mr T had told Everyday Lending that his monthly net income was around £1,853 and he was 
living at home with his parents. 
Everyday Lending checks a number of elements including two months of Mr Ts primary 
bank account statements; Mr Ts payslip; a credit search and a job check. It also utilised 
data from the Office of National Statistics (ONS) to calculate the living expense element of 
Mr Ts affordability check. Everyday Lending explained that it builds into the figures a buffer 
which I understand to be a financial margin which would be to absorb any unexpected 
changes or one-off additional expense. Everyday Lending had calculated that Mr Ts total 
monthly financial commitments and his general living expenses were just over £1,086. 
Considering the loan consolidation Mr T said he was going to use the Everyday Lending loan 
for and its calculations, Everyday Lending proceeded on the basis that Mr T had around 
£569 a month disposable income.  
On the part of the complaint relating to Mr T feeling harassed and pursued by Everyday 
Lending, the chronology is set out in the FRL. And Everyday Lending has said that where 
payments are missed with no explanations it is obliged to find the cause, gather information 
and offer a solution.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Lendings checks 
had been proportionate and on the financial affordability assessment she did not think it had 
done anything wrong. 
And in a second view she addressed that part relating to Mr Ts alleged poor treatment by 
Everyday Lending.  In her opinion, Everyday Loans took positive steps to contact Mr T to get 
a better understanding of his individual circumstances. It asked for appropriate information, 
such as a payslip and bank statement, to help it decide what help would be appropriate 
when the account fell into arrears. Everyday Loans did not ask for more information than 
was necessary in her view and she did not think that there was evidence of it having used 
threatening or abusive language in its correspondence to Mr T. 
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans dealt with Mr Ts financial difficulties fairly by 
allowing his arrears to be deferred more than once and agreeing to Mr Ts repayment 
proposals after he had returned to work.
Mr T disagreed with the outcomes in relation to both elements. The unresolved complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I think 
the overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday Loans, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Mr T would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr T would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ts ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
Considering this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. Having reviewed the information Everyday 
Lending had at the time Mr T applied for the loan, and having cross checked that these 
dovetail with the information I have set out in the what happened section of this decision, 
then I do consider that Everyday Lendings checks were proportionate for Mr Ts first loan 
repayable over 18 months. I find that Mr T was able to afford the monthly repayments. 
And I say this because the credit check Everyday Lending carried out shows that Mr T had a 
modest level of other credit and that search would not have alerted Everyday Lending to any 
financial issues such that it was warranted or proportionate to carry out further financial 
checks. And it asked for and received his bank statements and at least two statements of 
account for the other relatively modest loans and debt he had outstanding at the time 
Mr Ts income and expenditure seemed to lead Everyday Lending to conclude Mr T could 
afford the loan. 
Mr T repaid regularly and without issue until April 2020 and with the onset of the National 
Covid 19 pandemic things changed. I was sorry to learn that Mr T has been ill with Covid 
twice. 
Harassment is a criminal offence and not one that I am able to determine as criminal 
charges are prosecuted through the criminal courts. 
What I am interpreting Mr Ts complaint to mean is that he feels the contact from Everyday 
Lending was too much and unreasonable. Without any evidence from Mr T then I have had 
to rely on what Everyday Lending has given me. And there is a balance to be struck between 
a lender reasonably following up with its customer about missed and late payments and 
excessive contact such that the owner of the debt feels that this was too much to bear.
I used some of the Guidance in the FCA specialist Sourcebook - CONC 7.3.2: When 
dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard to its 
obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly. 
And in PRIN 2.1.1. A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
The older Office of Fair Trading Debt Collection Guidance (referenced in CONC 7) in 
paragraph 3.7
Examples of unfair or improper practices are as follows: a.) contacting debtors at 
unreasonable times and/or at unreasonable intervals
I make no finding on whether the contact revealed in the Everyday Lending account notes 
amounted to harassment for the reasons I gave earlier that I am not able to do that. 
From account notes I have seen from Everyday Lending it appears that Mr T cancelled the 
direct debit set up to pay the loan more than once after April 2020. And on one occasion 
mistakenly appeared to have set it up to repay annually not monthly. 
And so, I dont consider it unreasonable that Everyday Lending was trying to contact Mr T 
and by several means to sort it all out. There was no extraordinary level of contact from the 
evidence I have seen. So, I do not consider that there was a level of excessive contact or extreme inconvenience for Mr T. 
And Ive no evidence of Everyday Lending treating him unfairly in any other respect. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman