DRN-3393411
The complaint
Mr F complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited (referred to as IISL or the 
business) prevented him from withdrawing cash from his account without warning.  
What happened
IISL says that back in March 2020, as part of its ongoing checks and balance, it asked Mr F 
to provide some documentation so that it could re-confirm his identification. 
Mr F says that he responded with the relevant documentation, but IISL maintains that no 
response was provided. So, in due course it blocked the account preventing Mr F from 
withdrawing any cash but still allowing him to trade  but, not until December 2020, when the 
mistake was spotted. 
Following correspondence between Mr F and IISL  and receipt of the relevant 
documentation  the business eventually unblocked the account in early January 2021. 
In due course, the business upheld the complaint and offered Mr F £80 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its error. 
Unhappy with IISLs offer, Mr F referred his complaint to our service. He maintains he 
responded with the relevant documentation and that its not his fault if the business didnt 
receive the information and/or didnt chase him up for it. He believes the business shouldve 
contacted him before placing the block. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
On 11 March 2020, IISL contacted Mr F and made clear that it was periodically 
required to verify customer identification, but it was unable to carry out the checks for 
him electronically (because, for example, his address may have changed) and thats 
why it had placed a temporary block on his account. However, Mr F could still 
continue to trade and sell his holdings, but not withdraw money until IISL had verified 
his account.  
IISL is entitled to verify its customers, when it deemed necessary, so he cant 
comment on whether it was the right thing to do at the time. 
On 13 March 2020, after Mr F was contacted about the verification, he withdrew 
money so wouldve been aware that the block wasnt in place.  
Despite IISLs error Mr F could still withdraw money, until the block was finally put in 
place, on 30 December 2020. So, he wouldve benefitted from the error  by still 
being able to withdraw money (in the sum of around £35,450) which he couldnt 
otherwise do. 
Although the block was inconvenient, it was put in place for a legitimate reason.   
Mr F eventually supplied the documents on 7 January 2021, and IISL lifted the block 
on 11 January 2021 within two working days, well within the 10 working day-time 
limit.  
In the circumstances, the £80 compensation offered as an apology for the distress 
and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable.
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
provided a lengthy response  mainly about the state of the nation  but in summary he 
made the following key points:
He wants to know what legal authority IISL had to impose a block on his account. His 
lawyers (abroad) wish to know. 
IISL shouldve phoned him before placing the block. 
Hes unhappy that the CEO of IISL failed to respond to him and it ignored his legal 
warning. IISL seems not to care about customer service. 
Hes also very unhappy about the delays experienced during the course of this 
complaint. 
IISL illegally cut him off from his money, without warning. He did what was required, 
but the business said his documents werent received. 
He always thought that a complaint to the ombudsman service would be a waste of 
his time, and he wasnt disappointed  it seems the government system has won 
again.  
The investigator having considered Mr Fs response, wasnt persuaded to change his mind. 
In summary, he confirmed that our service isnt a government body and that Mr Fs 
complaint was now in the queue for an ombudsmans decision. He also provided links to the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA). 
Mr F in response said:
He hoped the investigator was able to wade through his diatribe about the state of 
the nation 
Since IISL didnt provide him with advice, he thinks it was wrong for it to try and solicit 
more information under COBS 5.2.2
He still thinks the business was wrong to freeze his assets in December 2020 without 
warning. He doesnt agree with the investigators view. 
The investigator confirmed that notwithstanding Mr Fs points, the business was still entitled 
to ask for more information. And IISL did warn him about what would happen if he didnt 
provide the required documentation.
Mr F still wants to know what legal authority IISL had to block his account and maintains that 
the business shouldve emailed him or called him before blocking his account in December 
2020. By failing to do so theyve effectively breached his human rights. Hes been treated 
appallingly by the business and maybe someone who really knows the UK law can look into 
his complaint.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. Because IISL upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is whether or not the 
redress offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think IISL should pay Mr F £80 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its error.   
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided submissions to support 
the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that he wont take 
the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much 
detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F, and IISL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Any further questions Mr F would like 
answers to, he may wish to ask the business. Its not for me to advise him on the law, or to 
punish a business for any wrongdoing, thats the role of the industry regulator, the FCA.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that in March 2020 IISL contacted 
Mr F about the periodic verification and the temporary block on his account. I note that Mr F 
was contacted because IISL was unable to carry out the necessary checks electronically  
its possible that this was a result of him living/travelling abroad  otherwise it seems its 
likely that the verification wouldve been done more easily.   
Despite what Mr F says, I see no issue with IISILs authority to ask for this documentation 
and to place a temporary block on his account whilst it verified his identification. A business 
is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to decide when 
and how to verify/re-verify its customers  its not for me to tell a business how to run its 
affairs. In this instance it seems the verification was done for Mr Fs own security, and to 
protect his assets, in case his account was being run by someone unauthorised to do so.
I note what Mr F says about the terms and conditions but not everything the business can 
and cant do, will be contained in within terms and conditions, because its simply not 
practical to do so. So, in this instance IISL has done nothing by not setting out chapter and 
verse its process on intermittent verification of accounts.  
The above notwithstanding, based on what Mr F says, on balance Im satisfied that he did 
provide the relevant documentation to enable IISL to verify his account and therefore he did 
what was required of him by the business.  
I understand that IISL didnt receive the documentation, although its not clear why. Im 
mindful that the response from Mr F was sent by standard air mail from abroad, so its 
possible that there was an issue with the post. If that was the case, its not something that I 
can blame IISL for. The business isnt responsible for the actions of a third-party postal 
service, particularly involving a foreign jurisdiction. And, any suggestion that IISL received 
the letter from Mr F, but didnt take appropriate action, or forgot to do so, is unlikely.   
As far as IISL is concerned, Im satisfied that it discharged its duty by notifying Mr F and 
providing the appropriate warning in March 2020. I cant say that it was generally obliged to 
chase him for the documentation, or call him/email him thereafter, before placing the temporary block on the account  whether it be in March or December 2020. So, on balance, 
Im unable to safely say that it has done anything wrong by not doing so. 
Despite what the business says, I also dont think Mr F was obliged to send the 
documentation by recorded delivery because he wasnt required to, so in the circumstances 
he hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. 
However, because Mr F was abroad, and he was aware of what might happen if IISL didnt 
receive his documentation, it could be argued that he ought reasonably to have checked with 
the business to see if it had received his air mail, rather than just assume that it had. 
I note two days after the business notified Mr F, he was still able to withdraw cash from his 
account right up until December 2020, which would suggest that the temporary block wasnt 
in place, despite the business (erroneously) suggesting that it was. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that IISL ever wrote to Mr F to confirm that it had received his documentation, and 
that the temporary block had been lifted, to give Mr F that impression.  
The above notwithstanding, evidently in March 2020 IISL said that it had imposed a 
temporary block on Mr Fs account but hadnt. It only did so, some months later, in 
December 2020 when it realised its mistake. By upholding the complaint, Im satisfied that 
the business broadly accepts this error. In my opinion, IISL was only doing what it shouldve 
done in the first place, especially as it still hadnt received Mr Fs documentation, so I dont 
think it was acting out of line.  
I appreciate what Mr F says about the impact the block had on him. I note he says he had to 
postpone payments and borrow money in December 2020 and January 2021 to meet his 
financial obligations, and that he felt like a criminal. 
But I also note the temporary block was imposed over a short period of time and rectified 
within days after IISL received Mr Fs documentation. Whilst it wouldve caused Mr F 
inconvenience, Im satisfied that this was limited. I note that after some correspondence, the 
account was eventually unblocked in early January 2021, which I believe was the right thing 
to do, and done so swiftly  within days of placing the block. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I think £80 compensation is broadly fair and 
reasonable. Despite what Mr F says, Ive no basis for awarding him £25,000. 
I appreciate what Mr F says about the legality of IISLs actions. Im not specifically looking at 
the legality of the businesss actions, in the same way that a court or tribunal might. As an 
informal service which is an alternative to the courts, we decide what is fair and reasonable 
based on all the circumstances. 
I note what Mr F says about COBS, but I think he may have misunderstood the point. In 
simple terms, in the course of a non-advised (execution-only) sale a business isnt required 
to obtain and consider personal and financial information relating to a customers 
circumstances. This means a customer is responsible for deciding whether or not an 
investment is suitable for their circumstances. This however doesnt preclude a business 
from seeking proof of identification or re-verifying a customers account at a later date. A 
business is obliged to do carry appropriate identification checks under various anti-money 
laundering and know your customer requirements.
I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the £80 compensation offered is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman