DRN-1549856
The complaint
Mrs S has been charged an initial fee for transferring her Individual Savings Account (ISA) to 
Henderson Investment Funds Limited (HIFL).
She is unhappy as she says she was unaware of the charge for the transfer, and also 
because she could have remained with her previous provider and transferred into the HIFL 
funds for no charge.
What happened
Mrs S had previously invested her money in two funds as part of her ISA allowance with her 
previous provider. Due to dissatisfaction over the performance of her investments, Mrs S 
chose to move her ISAs to HIFL, selecting two new funds.
Mrs S contacted HIFL and was sent an ISA transfer form that would enable her to retain the 
ISA wrap for her investments. There was then a period of delay due to some errors Mrs S 
had made on the form, during which time Mrs S had telephone contact with HIFL.
The issues with the transfer were resolved  the previous provider sold the investments and 
sent the cash to HIFL. They then invested in the two funds that Mrs S had chosen for her 
ISA, after deducting an initial investment fee.  
Mrs S complained about this fee to HIFL.  She felt that because this money had previously 
been invested, she should not be charged an initial fee. Mrs S was also aware that she could 
have remained with her previous provider and transferred her investments to the two HIFL 
funds, and not be charged the initial fee.  
HIFL said that they had told Mrs S about the initial fees, and it was part of the Key Investor 
Information Documents (KIID) for both HIFL funds she had invested in.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs S then brought the complaint to our service, where one of our 
investigators looked into it. The investigator was satisfied that HIFL had told Mrs S about the 
initial charge, and that in these circumstances it was not HIFLs responsibility to inform her of 
the previous providers offer to transfer funds on their platform for no fee. Mrs S disagreed, 
so the complaint was passed on to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint, and I will explain why.
Mrs S had been in contact with HIFL for a number of months.  There were other issues with 
the transfer which do not form part of the complaint, but which delayed the process. During 
this period it is clear that HIFL and Mrs S discussed the fees, including in the context of this 
being a transfer of an existing ISA, and that there would be an initial charge. 
HIFL had told Mrs S to read the KIIDs for the funds, and confirm that she had done so before 
the transfer could be made. Mrs S had signed the ISA transfer form which required her to 
say she had read the KIIDs.  I have looked at the KIIDs for both funds in the Classes that 
Mrs S selected, and the initial fee is clearly shown.
It is for these reasons that I am unable to uphold the complaint about Mrs S being unfairly 
charged.
It is not clear to me from the evidence at which point Mrs S became aware that she could 
have stayed on the previous providers platform and transferred into two similar HIFL 
investments at no charge. Nevertheless, HIFL was not acting as an adviser to Mrs S, and it 
is not HIFLs responsibility to be aware of, or provide, this information to potential clients. It 
was for Mrs S to decide what to do with her money, so I dont think HIFL made any error 
here.
I understand that this is not the outcome that Mrs S would have liked, but it is my opinion 
that HIFL did provide Mrs S with the information for her to make an informed decision in 
these circumstances.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Henderson Investment Funds 
Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
Christian Holder
Ombudsman