DRN-3629964
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC did not do enough to protect her from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms B complains she was the victim of an investment scam. She came into contact with a 
company Ill refer to as O after expressing an interest in investing on an online webform. 
From 1 February 2021, she made several payments totalling £17,000 to O using her Lloyds 
Visa debit card.
On realising shed been the victim of a scam, Ms B asked Lloyds to refund the money, 
explaining that no service or investment had been supplied by O. She told Lloyds shed tried 
on numerous occasions to reason with the scammers, but they would not respond.
Lloyds explained to Ms B that it referred specific transactions for a security check and that it 
based its fraud monitoring on its experience of current fraud trends. It explained the only way 
it could try and get a refund would be via the Visa Chargeback Scheme, but it would need 
more information from her before it could do that. It also asked Ms B for a clearly dated and 
recent screenshot of her investment account showing the date, withdrawal amount and the 
available balance at the time the withdrawal request was submitted.
Lloyds noted on Os website that it was registered in Cyprus and that it it offered an 
execution only service. There was also a note stating it didnt provide regulated financial 
services to the residents of the UK. It accepted shed been a victim of a scam, but it declined 
her complaint explaining she wasnt eligible for a refund or any compensation.
Ms B wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said Lloyds had failed to 
take into consideration the progressive sophistication of the fraud and that when she 
authorised the payments, she didnt know the company was fraudulent. She stated Lloyds 
didnt respond to her complaints or provide a final written response. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that, in line with 
the Payment Services Regulations, the starting point was that Ms B was liable for the 
payments she'd authorised. She further explained Lloyds was expected to have measures in 
place to detect unusual activity and intervene when it did, but she I didnt think the payments 
were unusual. She added that even if Lloyds had spoken to Ms B, she didnt think it wouldve 
made any difference as O was a CySEC regulated business.
Our investigator noted it wasnt for Lloyds to give investment advice or protect consumers 
from bad bargains and that, ultimately, Ms B had paid a legitimate merchant. So, she didnt 
think Lloyds had acted unreasonably by not intervening to ask questions about the 
transactions. She was also satisfied Ms B didnt have sufficient evidence for a successful 
chargeback.
Ms B has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She believes the 
scammer gained her trust because of her lack of knowledge and experience about 
investments and that, even though O is regulated by CySEC, they are still operating as a 
scam because they manipulated her trading account and made her lose everything. Shes 
explained her money wasnt used for any investment or trading, or to purchase shares, it 
was simply transferred to the fraudsters account. 
She doesnt accept the fact she authorised the transactions means she should be fully liable 
for her losses. She argues the disputed transactions were unusual because she would 
usually only make small payments for day-to-day needs, not tens of thousands of pounds to 
new recipients. She believes Lloyds mustve known or reasonably ought to have known she 
was dealing with a scammer. She argues it should have doubted the circumstances, 
contacted her and had an appropriate discussion with her about the risk of being scammed. 
She believes that if it had done so, she wouldve thought twice about making any transfers to 
the merchant and may not have suffered the resulting loss. 
Ms M believes Lloyds Bank should advise customers on the risks of sending money to 
people they dont know, and the low likelihood of the money being recovered once the 
customer realises they have been scammed.  She wants it to refund at least 50% of the 
money she lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the payments were authorised by Ms B. This is because they were 
made by her using the legitimate security credentials provided to her by Lloyds. Ms B 
believes shes entitled to a refund because, even though she authorised the payments, she 
was the victim of a scam and Lloyds should have either done more to stop that happening or 
to help her get the money back.
Was there a scam?
Banks have various and long-standing obligations (many of which Ms B has correctly 
highlighted) to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But 
these are predicated on there having been a fraud or scam. So, my first consideration must 
be whether O was operating a scam as Ms B alleges.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered this, but Im not persuaded that at the relevant time O was 
operating a scam. I say this as at that time it was regulated by the Cyprus Securities and 
Exchange Commission (CySEC). It also had passporting rights through the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)  which meant it could offer its services to UK customers as 
recorded on FCA website. The services being offered may have been high risk and I accept Ms Bs testimony that its likely there were some questionable sales and marketing 
techniques. But that doesnt in itself mean O was operating a scam. 
Crucially, O is still operating and there are no warnings on either the FCA or the IOSCO 
websites (certainly none within a month of any of the transactions). Ive considered whether 
any of the other circumstances Ms B has described indicate O was operating as a scam and 
I dont think they do. Consequently, Im not satisfied Ms B has shown she was the victim of a 
scam and so Lloyds was under no obligation to intervene with the purpose of preventing a 
fraud or scam. 
Ms B might wish to consider whether she can complain about Os practices to The Financial 
Ombudsman Service in Cyprus.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) 
a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Ms B).
Lloyds is bound by the card scheme operators (Visa in this case) rules. Lloyds has said it 
didnt raise a chargeback because there was no valid basis upon which to make a 
chargeback request. As this was an investment trading dispute, the only applicable 
misrepresentation option for Lloyds would have been if she was unable to withdraw available 
funds from her trading platform. But its not just enough to be unable to withdraw available 
funds, Ms B would have needed to have provided dated evidence that she had funds 
available in her trading account on the day she requested them. I dont see that she had this 
evidence and therefore, I dont think there was a reasonable chance of a chargeback 
succeeding, so Lloyds not raising a request is a reasonable exercise of its discretion.
Overall, Im sorry to hear Ms B lost such a significant amount of money. But for the reasons 
Ive explained I dont think Lloyds is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman