DRN-4301199
The complaint
Miss C complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL) irresponsibly lent to her 
when she took out a finance agreement with them.
What happened
In April 2015, Miss C acquired a car using a hire purchase agreement with SMFL. The total 
amount payable under the agreement was £12,668.00. The cash price of the car was 
£6,010.67 and the interest rate applied to the agreement was 39.9% APR. The term of the 
agreement was 60 months and after the first repayment of £250, her regular monthly 
repayments were around £202.05 until a final instalment of £397.05.
Miss C said the interest rate charged and the amount she had to pay was unaffordable and 
she later fell into arrears.
Miss C didnt feel it was fair that SMFL lent to her and didnt feel they completed the 
necessary checks before lending to her. Miss C said SMFL didnt ask for evidence of her 
income and expenditure, copies of wage slips at the time, or bank statements. She said she 
was just told she was accepted for finance and how much her payments would be per 
month. Miss C said this has now had an adverse effect on her credit score.
Miss C also said that she communicated with SMFL regularly when she was in arrears to 
explain she was in financial difficulty and the reasons why, but she said SMFL were 
unhelpful.
Miss C complained to SMFL in July 2022 and they provided her their final response. Within 
it, they said Miss C should have got in touch with them when she first realised she was 
getting into debt with her payments. And as she raised her complaint more than six years 
since she took out her agreement, and it had also been more than three years since they 
believed Miss C ought to have brought her complaint, they were unable to consider it. They 
also said there were eight occasions, starting from December 2015, where payments were 
missed.
Miss C, unhappy with SMFLs response, referred her complaint to our service. Our service 
explained that we thought we could look into the complaint and requested SMFL to provide 
their comments on Miss Cs complaint.
Our service asked Miss C for her bank statements and her employer pay slips at around the 
time the agreement was signed. Unfortunately, due to the length of time that has passed, 
Miss C hasnt been able to provide them. Instead, Miss C has provided our service with an 
estimate of what she believed her monthly income and expenditure to have been at around 
that time. She said she would have received £1,100 per month. Miss C later said she would 
have received around £1,330 per month after retrieving an email of the job offer she 
received at the time. Her non-discretionary bills, such as rent and energy bills, she estimated 
to have amounted to around £845. This meant she would have been left with around £480 
per month. 
In March 2023, Miss C said she still has possession of the car and there is around £2,000 
outstanding to be repaid under the agreement.
Our investigator issued his view and found that SMFL didnt need to take any action. In 
summary, the investigator thought that there was limited information to determine whether 
SMFL completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself Miss C would be able 
to repay the agreement in a sustainable way. But, from what he was able to consider, he 
concluded that he would have liked to see SMFL to have completed more proportionate 
checks and for them to have obtained a more thorough understanding of Miss Cs financial 
circumstances before lending. The investigator then went on to consider if reasonable and 
proportionate checks had been completed, what they would have likely shown. He 
concluded that bank statements would give an accurate account of what Miss Cs income 
and expenditure was and that he couldnt rely on estimates given. As Miss C wasnt able to 
obtain bank statements, it wasnt possible for him to know what information SMFL would 
have likely seen about Miss Cs circumstances if they had completed proportionate checks. 
And so, from what has been provided, it didnt tell him the lending was unaffordable to Miss 
C.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators findings. And so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide. She told our service in August 2023 that she was attempting to contact her 
bank once again to obtain bank statements which may have been archived due to the time 
that had passed. Our service gave Miss C until early September 2023 to provide those 
statements but hadnt done so before the deadline given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
 including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach while deciding Miss Cs complaint.
SMFL needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. This means it needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss C could afford to repay the amount it was 
lending. A proportionate check is dependent on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  Miss Cs particular circumstances (e.g. her financial history, current situation and 
outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost 
of credit obtained.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the amount lent was high, or the 
information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired credit history  suggested the 
lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. Ive carefully 
thought about what this means for Miss Cs case.
In this case, SMFL lent to Miss C in 2015. Limited information has been provided by SMFL, 
but what they have provided is their account notes for Miss C. Some sections of it are 
heavily abbreviated, but they still provide a fair outlook of each interaction SMFL held with 
Miss C or actions taken to her account. On the other hand, limited information has also been provided by Miss C. Understandably, due to the length of time that has passed since the 
agreement was taken out, Miss C has had difficulty obtaining her bank statements and her 
wage slips for April 2015, as well as her credit file showing her circumstances at the time. 
She also believes SMFL didnt complete the necessary checks before lending to her.
Were reasonable and proportionate checks completed?
The loan was taken out to acquire a car. It is disappointing to see that SMFL hasnt provided 
any information to show what checks they had relied on in making their lending decision, 
other than providing a copy of their internal account notes. Recorded for 3 April 2015, the 
notes say:
income confirmedshowing some adverse but nothing large mainly good credit 
It isnt clear from this brief note what information or documentation SMFL relied on for their 
checks, but the note does say income confirmed which suggests SMFL either relied on 
some information given to them  whether through a wage slip, for example, or Miss C 
declaring her income to them at the time. Im also mindful the note above says Miss C had 
mainly good credit  which suggests her credit file was likely reviewed to reach that 
conclusion.
Thinking about things here, I think SMFLs own comments should have alerted themselves 
to carry out further checks, as their own notes say their checks show some[thing] adverse. 
So, I cant fairly conclude reasonable and proportionate checks were completed at the time 
this loan was approved, as I cant be sure of whether SMFL requested or relied on further 
information to verify Miss Cs income and expenditure.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Miss C could repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way?
To determine what reasonable and proportionate checks might have uncovered, it is 
important to rely on accurate information from the time the lending decision was made. For 
example, bank statements and wage slips would show the income Miss C would have 
received at the time, and regular expenditure and financial commitments she may have also 
held. This would help determine whether Miss C could repay the agreement in a sustainable 
way.
Unfortunately, Miss C has been unable to provide these due to the length of time that has 
passed. Miss C has also, in the absence of bank statements, provided us with estimations of 
what she believed her non-discretionary outgoings to be, alongside her income. But our 
service cant consider estimations as we cant verify the accuracy of them.
Taking everything into account here, from the limited information provided by both parties, I 
cant see anything to suggest that if reasonable and proportionate checks had been 
completed, that it would have uncovered Miss C wouldnt have been able to repay the 
agreement in a sustainable way.
Did SMFL act unfairly or unreasonable in some other way?
Ive also looked at whether SMFL was aware or ought to reasonably have been aware, that 
Miss C could be in financial difficulties by reviewing her use of her account. And if so, 
whether it was appropriate for SMFL to apply any interest, fees and charges.
Once a lender is aware a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, we would expect it to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration, in line with its regulatory obligations. Ultimately, wed expect a lender to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their circumstances and 
then assess the most appropriate way to move forward. 
SMFL must also monitor their customers repayment record and take appropriate action 
where there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
I can see from internal notes as well as from what Miss C has told our service that she made 
SMFL aware of her difficulty to repay some monthly instalments. I can see Miss C made 
SMFL aware as early as November 2015, due to her taking time off from work. Im sorry 
Miss C found herself in financial difficulty. I accept at times Miss C may have had difficulty 
repaying in some months, highlighted by the fact she says she is in arrears.
In any event though, I can see from internal system notes Miss C told SMFL she was off 
work due to a health condition. So, while I have sympathy for Miss C being off work, it is 
likely the reason Miss C was unable to make certain repayments to this agreement was that 
her circumstances changed as a result of not working. I dont think SMFL could have 
foreseen Miss C stopping her work and therefore I cant reasonably say that SMFL ought to 
have realised that this would have impacted on Miss Cs finances in the way that it did.
I appreciate my outcome will be very disappointing for Miss C, in itself because she has 
invested time and energy in pursuing her complaint. She has also explained she is caring for 
an individual who is currently unwell. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will 
help explain how Ive reached my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman