DRN-2538052
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a travel insurance policy linked to their package bank account. They had 
a holiday to Italy booked, leaving on 29 February 2020 and returning on 7 March 2020. Mr 
and Mrs C contacted Aviva on the 27 February 2020 to say they were cancelling their trip 
due to Covid-19. They attempted to get refunds from the airline and the hotels theyd booked 
independently but werent able to. They claimed on their travel insurance policy. 
Aviva rejected the claim on the basis that the Foreign and Commonwealth Office hadnt 
advised against travel to Italy until after Mr and Mrs C were due to return. Mr and Mrs C 
made a complaint, but Aviva said theyd fairly declined the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C made a complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had 
happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She thought Aviva had reasonably declined the 
claim based on the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said, in 
summary, that this was an unfair outcome and questioned the purpose of travel insurance as 
this was a genuine claim. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
 
The policy terms and conditions say the policyholder is covered for cancellation in a number 
of situations including:
If one of the of the following events occurs or prevents you from travelling within 31 
days of your scheduled departure date
 
b. A foreign and commonwealth advisory notice is in place advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination is still in place. 
Or you choose not to travel because;
 
c. Your accommodation is directly affected by a food poisoning outbreak, or the 
area in which you are staying is affected by a pandemic or epidemic 
influenza.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to decline Mr and Mrs Cs claim because: 
At the point Mr and Mrs C were due to travel, on 29 February 2020, there was no 
FCO guidance in place advising against travel to Italy. The FCO didnt advise against 
travel to Italy until 10 March 2020, which was after Italy went into a national lockdown 
on 9 March 2020. Mr and Mrs C were due to return to the UK before that date, as 
they were due back on 7 March 2020. And, the World Health Organisation didnt 
declare a global pandemic until 11 March 2020, which is also after Mr and Mrs C 
were due to return home 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C feel that the UK government was slow to respond and 
that FCO guidance may not have reflected the reality of the wider situation in relation 
to Covid-19. But the terms of their insurance policy only cover cancellation due to a 
change of FCO advice in limited circumstances and Mr and Mrs Cs situation isnt 
covered by this policy. So, I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably when declining to 
cover the claim
Mr and Mrs C have also pointed out that the area in which they were travelling to was 
affected by a pandemic and epidemic influenza. So, Ive also considered whether 
they are covered by that section of the policy. Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
itinerary and I dont think its reasonable to conclude that they were travelling to areas 
which, at that point in time, could have been reasonably considered to have been 
impacted by Covid-19. In late February Italy placed eleven towns into lockdown. But 
the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest that Mr and Mrs C were planning to stay in 
any of those places. Only one of the towns was in the same region as a place that Mr 
and Mrs C planned to visit and it was still a considerable distance away from where 
they planned to actually stay. I dont think it is reasonable, in the circumstances of 
this case, to conclude that there is cover under that section of the policy
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs C have told us about their personal 
circumstances, including Mrs Cs occupation and her medical history. But this doesnt 
change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I can appreciate that this 
was a worry for Mr and Mrs C and I dont doubt that they acted with the very best of 
intentions. However, it doesnt automatically follow that their travel insurance policy 
should cover their claim. That depends on the policy terms and, as Ive outlined 
above, there was no cover for the circumstances in which they found themselves
Finally, Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to 
cover this claim. I dont think that it is. At no point during Mr and Mrs Cs planned trip 
was there any advice from the FCO against travel to Italy or the places they planned 
to visit. And, as Ive outlined above, at that point in time the WHO had not declared 
Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Taking into account all of the available evidence I cant 
fairly conclude Aviva has acted unreasonably in the circumstances of this case. Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, as I appreciate theyve lost out on both a holiday 
and they cant recover their costs, but Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman