DRN-4205595
The complaint
Ms W complains about the remedy provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc when settling her 
claim for subsidence on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W had a home insurance policy with AXA. She made a claim after noticing cracks in the 
property. AXA accepted the claim and identified the cause of the subsidence as a tree that 
belonged to her neighbour. It instructed an arborist who recommended the tree be removed.
However Ms Ws neighbour wasnt prepared to remove the tree. Instead she agreed a 
compromise with AXA to cut it down to 5 metres and to carry out regular pruning. This action 
was carried out and AXA monitored the property to see if it stabilised. As it was satisfied the 
property had stopped moving, AXA carried out repairs to the damage. 
However Ms W wasnt happy with this. She said it wasnt right that AXAs expert had come 
up with two conflicting views on what would solve the subsidence. She said AXAs 
contractors had acted unprofessionally and wanted them to issue a statement retracting their 
original findings or explaining the contradiction. 
She made a complaint and AXA accepted it could have provided better communication. It 
offered £225 compensation for this. However it said it was satisfied it acted correctly on the 
information it had at the time in order to resolve the claim.
Unhappy with this Ms W brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she said AXA had acted reasonably by 
reaching a compromise with her neighbour as the property showed it had stabilised after. 
And she said she wouldnt expect AXA to amend a report that wasnt incorrect, so she 
couldnt ask it to retract its original opinion. 
Ms W didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a subsidence claim is made, its the role of the insurer to identify the cause of the 
subsidence and solve the issue so that the property stabilises. Wed then expect the insurer 
to check that it is stable before moving on to repair the superficial damage. 
Here, AXA sent an arborist to identify the cause. It recommended the tree belonging to Ms 
Ws neighbour was removed as it thought this would ensure the property stabilised.
However when a tree belongs to a third party, the insurer is unable to take any action without 
their consent. So AXA couldnt have carried out the recommendations of its expert if the 
neighbour wasnt in agreement. Instead, the neighbour said she would reduce the tree to 5m 
and carry out ongoing pruning. As AXA hadnt been able to get agreement to full removal, I 
think it was reasonable it agreed to this in the first instance. 
Once the tree was reduced, AXA carried out monitoring to see if this had impacted the 
movement of the property. And it found that the property had stabilised. So while the action 
taken wasnt what the arborist originally directed, it did meet the objective of stabilising the 
property. And as this is what the insurer is required to do in response to a claim, I think this 
is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Ms Ws frustration at the change to AXAs position on the appropriate action and 
understand why shed prefer that the tree was removed. However as the third party didnt 
agree to this action, it wasnt unreasonable for AXA to explore alternatives. And as the 
alternative led to the property stabilising then it was reasonable for AXA to proceed to 
repairs.
I understand that removing the tree may go further to prevent the possibility of future 
instances of subsidence. However insurance policies dont provide protection from future 
damage. Instead they are there to solve a current problem, which is what AXA has done 
here. So Ive not found that AXA got anything wrong in the actions it took in the 
circumstances.
Further, just because AXA carried out different actions to that in the initial report doesnt 
mean that AXAs arborists original report was incorrect. The recommendation to remove the 
tree was the experts opinion at the time. However after this it transpired this wouldnt be 
possible due to the neighbours wishes and that the property could stabilise with tree 
reduction only. So while it agreed to change the remedy, as the original opinion wasnt 
incorrect Id not expect AXA to amend the report or withdraw the opinion.
I can see the situation has caused Ms W some frustration and AXA hasnt helped matters by 
providing unclear communication about the matter. Its offered £225 to make up for the poor 
service and I think this is fair in the circumstances. So I wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman