DRN-4291326
The complaint
A has complained that Watford Insurance Company Limited  avoided a commercial vehicle 
insurance policy it took out to cover one of its vehicles and rejected a claim for damage to 
the vehicle because of this.
A is represented by a director of A, who Ill refer to as Mr P.
What happened
Mr P took out a policy on behalf of A via a comparison site for one of its vans. When doing 
so he said the policyholder should be one of its employees, who Ill refer to as Mr C. Mr P 
also said the owner of the van was Mr C and that he was also the registered keeper. The 
van was damaged in a collision while Mr C was driving it. A submitted a claim to Watford 
under its policy. Watford investigated the matter and discovered that A was the owner of the 
van and that it was registered in its name. Watford decided that Mr P, on behalf of A, had 
failed to make a fair presentation of the risk in accordance with its obligations under The 
Insurance Act 2015 (the Act) when taking out the policy and that this was what the Act 
describes as a deliberate or reckless qualifying breach. They said they wouldnt have 
provided the policy if Mr P had answered the questions asked about the owner and 
registered keeper correctly. So they avoided the policy and refused As claim on this basis. A 
complained to Watford, but they wouldnt alter their decision to avoid the policy. 
A asked us to consider its complaint about Watford. One of our investigators did this. He 
issued his view on the complaint. In this he explained that he agreed that A had failed to 
make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the policy. But that he thought their 
failure to do so was neither reckless nor deliberate. He further explained that  in his opinion 
- what A should have done was taken out the policy with it as the policyholder and said it 
was the legal owner and registered keeper of the van. He then explained further that 
because Watford had not provided underwriting evidence to show it would not have provided 
the policy with A as the policyholder, they had not demonstrated that A had made what the 
Act describes as a qualifying breach. He said this meant they werent entitled to avoid the 
policy. He said to put things right Watford should reinstate the policy with A as the 
policyholder and consider As claim under it. 
A agree with the investigators opinion. Watford do not and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Theyve said that they would not have offered the policy (contract) at all to Mr C if A 
had been put as the owner and registered keeper of the van. And that this meant they were 
entitled to avoid the policy irrespective of whether there was a deliberate or reckless failure 
to make a fair presentation of the risk when the policy in Mr Cs name was taken out. They 
have explained that they thought a policy in the name of A would have been a totally 
separate contract. So, whether theyd have offered it or not is irrelevant.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider the relevant legislation in this case is The Insurance Act 2015 (the Act).
 
The Act governs all insurance contracts other than those caught by the definition of a 
consumer insurance contract under s.1(a) of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2013 (CIDRA). In CIDRA a consumer is defined as an individual 
who is acting wholly or mainly for non-business purposes. And the contract Watford have 
avoided was taken out for the purposes of A or Mr Cs business, as opposed to for personal 
use for non-business purposes.
The Act imposes a duty of fair presentation on insureds, which requires insureds to make a 
fair presentation of the risk to be insured before entering a contract of insurance. A fair 
presentation is one that satisfies requirements regarding both the content of the information 
presented to the insurer pre-contract and the form in which it is presented. 
If the insured breaches the duty of fair presentation, the insurer will only be entitled to a 
remedy if it proves that it was induced by the breach to enter into the contract of insurance 
on the terms that it did, or at all. In order to establish that it was induced by the insureds 
breach, it will be key for the insurer to prove that, but for the breach, it would either not have 
entered the insurance contract or would only have done so on different terms, whether as to 
premium or otherwise (s.8, the Act). This would then make the breach what the Act 
describes as a qualifying breach.
The remedies available to an insurer for a qualifying breach are set out in Schedule 1 of the 
Act. The insurers remedy will depend on whether the breach was:
Deliberate or reckless.
Neither deliberate nor reckless. 
In short if the insureds qualifying breach was neither deliberate nor reckless, the insurers 
remedy will depend on what the insurer would have done had the duty of fair presentation 
been complied with. If the breach was deliberate or reckless, the insurers remedy will 
include the ability to avoid the contract of insurance and retain any premiums paid.
It is clear from what A have said and the registration document for the vehicle insured under 
the policy that the owner and registered keeper of it was A. Its also clear that when Mr P 
took out the policy on behalf of A through a broker he said the owner and registered keeper 
was Mr C. 
Ive also noted that the class of use Mr P chose for the vehicle didnt include business use, 
which it is clear was also an error on Mr Ps part, bearing in mind the vehicle was owned by 
A and mainly used for its business. 
Its also clear that the policy should have been taken out in the name of A, as it was the 
owner and registered keeper of the vehicle to be insured under it. 
So, as far as I am concerned Mr P provided the wrong information regarding four things 
when he took out the policy on behalf of A. Mr P has explained that he must have simply 
made these mistakes due to a lack of care, having made the application through a 
comparison site and having found the process quite difficult. Hes also said he spoke to the 
broker involved over the telephone after providing the information via the comparison site. 
And hes sure the broker would have been aware that the vehicle he wanted to insure 
belonged to A. 
I do of course appreciate what Mr P has said about why he provided incorrect information 
when he took out the policy. And I find his explanation that it was just due to carelessness on 
his part plausible. This is because, as I see it, he didnt really have anything significant to 
gain by taking out a policy in the name of Mr C with him as the owner and registered keeper. However, it does mean Mr P, on behalf of A, failed to make a fair presentation of the risk 
when he took out the policy. I appreciate the broker may have been aware the vehicle to be 
insured was owned by A, but as I understand it, the broker was not acting as an agent of 
Watford; it was acting as an agent for A. This means A is responsible for any errors made by 
the broker.
However, I do not consider Watford have provided sufficient evidence show that this failure 
to make a fair presentation of the risk was what the Act describes as a qualifying breach. 
This is because, despite being asked several times by us to provide evidence that they 
would either not have offered a policy in the name of A, with A as the registered keeper and 
owner of the insured vehicle, with Mr C as a named driver and cover for business use on 
different terms to the policy it offered or that they would have offered such a policy on 
different terms, they have not done so. 
Watford have instead provided evidence to show they wouldnt have offered a policy to Mr C 
as the policyholder if theyd been aware the vehicle was owned by and registered to A. 
However, this ignores the fact that the fair presentation of the risk Mr P needed to make on 
behalf of A was with A as the policyholder, owner and registered keeper of the vehicle to be 
insured and Mr C as a named driver, and with the use of the vehicle as being for business. 
And, as I have already explained, I have no evidence from Watford to show they would not 
have offered such a policy at all or that they would have offered it on different terms.
As Watford have not, in my opinion, shown A made a qualifying breach under the Act, it 
follows that I do not consider it would be a fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint to 
let their avoidance of the policy taken out by Mr P on behalf of A stand and for them to be 
allowed to refuse As claim for this reason. 
Putting things right
In view of what Ive said, I consider the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
Watford to reinstate the policy they avoided retrospectively and in doing so change the name 
of the policyholder to A, with Mr C as a named driver and the class of use to cover business 
use. They should then consider As claim following the accident under the terms of this 
policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold As complaint and order 
Watford Insurance Company Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right 
section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman