DRN-3115162
The complaint
Mr B and Ms W are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms W took out an annual travel insurance policy in January 2020. They booked 
their holiday through a travel provider who helped them to put together a personalised 
itinerary. They left on 7 March 2020 and were due to return on 27 March 2020.
On 11 March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a global 
pandemic. On 12 March the country Mr B and Ms W were visiting announced that they 
were banning the entry of all foreign nationals and suspended existing visas for foreign 
tourists.This, together with the growing impact of the pandemic, started to have an impact 
on flights to and from the country where Mr B and Ms W were visiting.
A few days later, on 15 March 2020, their travel provider got in touch because of the 
rapidly changing situation in relation to Covid-19. On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel and on the 23 March 2020 
they directed all UK citizens to return home.
Mr B and Ms W decided to come home early and booked new flights  they returned home 
on 19 March 2020. They want to claim the costs of their new flight home, an additional 
domestic flight and unused train tickets. The travel provider has confirmed that they wont 
be refunding the additional costs, although it has provided a significant refund of the 
overall cost because Mr B and Ms W came home early.
Mr B and Ms W claimed on their travel insurance policy. Great Lakes declined the claim on 
the basis that the costs could be recovered from the travel provider. Mr B and Ms W 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened  she thought that it was reasonable for 
Mr B and Ms W to try and recover the outstanding costs from the provider, using a travel 
industry dispute resolution service. But, she said that if this was unsuccessful, then Great 
Lakes should pay the claim because Mr B and Ms W were in a position where they 
wouldnt have had cover if they stayed abroad, due to FCO advice, but also wouldnt have 
had cover if they cut short their trip.
Ms W said that she wasnt able to get her money back via the relevant travel industry 
scheme. Great Lakes also didnt agree and said that Mr B and Ms W had travelled before 
FCO advice changed. They also said that they wouldnt have withdrawn cover and that the 
FCO didnt advise people to cut short their trips.
In October 2021 I issued a provisional decision explaining that I wasnt intending to uphold 
this complaint. I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines
Relevant regulatory rules (the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Principles 
for Business) say;
a firm should pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires insurers to;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its customer;
handle claims promptly and fairly.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID)
At the top of the IPID it says:
This document provides a summary of the main cover and exclusions to help you 
decide if the cover meets your needs. The full terms and conditions can be found 
in the policy wording and your policy certificate. It is important you read all of these 
documents carefully.
Under the heading, Whats insured? it says that Cancellation and Curtailment up to £5000
 Cover for any non-refundable unused travel and accommodation costs if you have 
to cancel or cut short a trip due to certain reasons specified in the policy.
On page 1 of the IPID, under the heading, Are there any restrictions on cover? it says:
There is no cover to travel to a country or region where the Foreign &
Commonwealth Office (FCO) has advised against travel.
The Policy Terms and Conditions
Page 22 of the policy terms and conditions says:
There is no cover under this policy for travel to a country or region where the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office has advised against travel
Section A of the policy, on pages 24 and 25, sets out the cover available for cancellation 
or curtailment. Curtailment cover applies if the policyholder is forced to return to their 
home country due to a number of reasons. In summary, curtailment is covered in the 
following circumstances:
Illness, injury or death of the policyholder, a close relative or a person 
the policyholder is due to travel or stay with
Cancellation or delay of departure in certain circumstances
Jury Service, redundancy or compulsory quarantineThe policyholders home being made uninhabitable or place of business 
becoming unavailable
The policyholder or their travelling companion having their leave cancelled by 
the emergency services.
The terms say that the policy doesnt cover:
Prohibitive regulations by the government of any country, or delay or amendment 
of the booked Trip due to government action
Anything mentioned in the general exclusions.
The General Exclusions section, on pages 48 and 49, excludes:
Any claim arising from You travelling to a country or specific area or event to which 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has 
advised the public not to travel (Ill refer to this as the FCO exclusion)
Any costs recoverable from another source.
Has Mr B and Ms Ws claim been unfairly declined?
Neither cutting a trip short due to a change in FCO guidance, nor cutting it short because 
of a pandemic, are specific, listed, insured events for which curtailment cover is provided. 
The policy also has an exclusion for amendment of a trip due to government action.
The government of the country Mr B and Ms W were visiting suspended visas, which 
started to impact upon available flights. Mr B and Ms W cut short their trip following 
guidance from their travel provider. There were concerns about the rapidly changing 
situation in relation to Covid-19 and the provider was concerned that Mr B and Ms Ws 
flight on 27 March 2020 wouldnt go ahead.
Whilst I appreciate that the pandemic and the changing situation in the country Mr B and 
Ms W were visiting was concerning, and their decision was entirely understandable and 
sensible, they are not covered by the policy terms Ive outlined above. Mr B and Ms Ws 
travel plans were disrupted due to the impact of the pandemic, and the country they 
were visiting withdrawing visas. This had a knock-on effect on international flights 
arriving and departing from the country. So, I dont think Mr B and Ms W can recover the 
costs of their additional flights and unused expenses because they arent an insured 
event under the policy terms.
Theres no cover for cutting short a trip due to a change in FCO guidance during the trip. 
And, in any event, Mr B and Ms W also returned home before the FCO advised all UK 
citizens to return home.
However, Ive gone on to consider that the FCO guidance did change shortly after Mr B 
and Ms W returned to the UK, on 23 March, which was before their scheduled return date 
of 27 March 2020. So, Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable to direct 
Great Lakes to cover the claim for unused and additional costs, after the FCO guidance 
changed on 23 March 2020.There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt 
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and 
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
I think the policy terms could have been clearer and more transparent about the cover 
available under the policy in the event that a trip was impacted by FCO advice changing, 
as it would have been after 23 March 2020 (the date that the FCO instructed UK citizens 
to return home). I think Mr B and Ms W would have had to read all of the policy terms, and 
cross refer between different sections of the policy to understand what they were, and 
werent, covered for in such circumstances. But it doesnt automatically follow that Im 
upholding this complaint as I would still need to be satisfied that Mr B and Ms W would 
have acted differently had the overall effect of the policy been made clearer to them.
The general exclusion refers to you travelling to a country, specific area or event against 
FCO or WHO advice (my emphasis). They hadnt travelled to a country against FCO 
advice, the advice had changed during their trip. So, I dont think Great Lakes could have 
fairly withdrawn cover in the event that Mr B and Ms W remained abroad after a change in 
FCO guidance.
Ive thought about whether Mr B and Ms W would have taken out this policy if theyd have 
realised that the policy didnt cover them to cut short their trip due to a change in FCO 
advice but would still cover them if they stayed abroad.
I think it is most likely that they would still have taken out this policy as, in such 
circumstances, cover wouldnt have been withdrawn by Great Lakes if they remained 
abroad until their planned return date. So, theyd have had the peace of mind that theyd 
still be covered by their insurance policy if FCO guidance unexpectedly changed whilst 
they were overseas, and that theyd have been covered by their insurance until their return 
to the UK. That would have included cover, for example, for emergency medical expenses.
Given that the policy would have still offered significant benefits to Mr B and Ms W I dont 
think this would have dissuaded them from selecting this policy if they had realised that it 
didnt cover them for cutting short their trip due to a change in FCO advice. In reaching 
that conclusion, Ive taken into account the nature of Mr B and Ms Ws trip and that they 
were visiting a country which wasnt typically subject to changes in FCO guidance. Nor 
have I seen evidence that this aspect of the cover was particularly important to Mr B and 
Ms W.
Great Lakes said they didnt have further comments. Mr B and Ms W made a number of 
further points in support of their position. In summary they said: 
It was an ever-changing situation and they had to take guidance from people on the 
ground. They explained, hotels were closing, it was dangerous to leave the hotel 
grounds and tourists were being given only a few hours to leave some areas of the 
country. 
They were unable to contact Great Lakes.
 
Mr B has a mental health condition and his mental health began to suffer due to the 
circumstances.
 
They acted in their own, and Great Lakes, best interests  if theyd stayed it would 
have been more expensive for Great Lakes to get them home and they may have 
been stranded.
 They acted in line with government guidance. 
 
It was unclear whether their original return flight had operated as planned. 
So, I now need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Ms W but I still think it was fair for Great Lakes to decline 
their claim.
Mr B and Ms W made an understandable decision to return home. I acknowledge that they 
were in a difficult and uncertain position when the pandemic impacted upon their holiday. I 
acknowledge that Mr B and Ms W made a pragmatic decision to get home whilst they 
could, particularly if Mr Bs mental health was suffering. I have a lot of empathy for the 
circumstances in which they found themselves. But it doesnt automatically follow that they 
cut short their trip due to an insured event under their travel insurance policy.
Ive taken into account the UK government guidance Mr B and Ms W referred to. It says: 
We are not currently advising British people to immediately return to the UK if they 
are overseas, except for a few countries detailed in our travel advice. However, 
British people should keep in mind that flights may be cancelled at short notice or 
other travel restrictions may be put in place by foreign governments.
If people do want to return to the UK soon, then they need to take account of the fast 
moving situation and plan accordingly, while flights remain available in many places.
So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Furthermore, the policy excludes amendment of a trip due to government action. The 
spread of Covid-19, and the declaration of the pandemic, caused the government of the 
country they were visiting to suspend visas and this in turn had an impact on travel into, 
and out of the country. So that isnt insured under the policy.  
I appreciate that the original return flight may not have operated. But I dont think this is 
central to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because, in any event, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline the claim for the reasons Ive outlined above and 
in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman