The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with Virgin Money Plc He says the promotional rate on his credit card 
account was unfairly removed. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs credit card state that a refund wouldnt count as a
payment towards the minimum payment required for the statement period. Also, the
terms and conditions were quite clear that failure to meet the minimum payment
would result in the promotional rate being removed.
While the payments from the credit card account to the third-party account in this
case are processed as cash payments, Virgin Money has explained that credit from
this third party or other organisations outside of banks and building societies are
recorded as refunds. And so, a payment was still required to meet the minimum
payment required. I can see from Mr Bs credit card statement for October 2019 that
although he received payments into his credit card account from the third-party
organisation in question here, he still made payments towards his credit card
balance.
Virgin Money has also provided evidence to show that Mr B was sent notification that
the minimum monthly payment was required in November 2019, this notification was
sent after the credit from the third-party. So, Im satisfied that Mr B had knowledge
that he still needed to make a payment towards his credit card balance regardless of
the funds that came in through this third-party account.
I understand that to Mr B the account was credited within the statement period but
that didnt remove the need for him to make a payment towards his balance. And as
he didnt make a payment, the promotional rate was removed.
Ultimately Virgin Money is entitled to set its terms of business as it sees fit. I think it
was removed in line with the terms and conditions of the credit card account. So,
I wont be asking Virgin Money to reinstate the promotional rate because
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Bs frustration, I dont think Virgin Money has 
acted unfairly.
DRN-1672346My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Virgin Money plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman