DRN-3387965
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the service received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as 
Platform) when trying to port her mortgage. 
What happened
Miss P held a mortgage with Platform, her rate was fixed for five-years at 2.39% until 
December 2021. The offer for this mortgage explained that if the mortgage was redeemed 
early, an early repayment charge (ERC) would apply on a staggered basis  starting with 5% 
of the amount repaid in the first year, reducing by 1% each year thereafter until the end date 
of the product.
In September 2020, Miss P began discussions with Platform about porting her mortgage and 
borrowing more money. Miss Ps offer on a new property was accepted around that time. 
Her intention was to reside at the new property and transfer her existing property to a buy-to-
let. Platform said the process would take 3-4 months to complete, as its normal service 
levels were impacted. 
Unhappy with the timescales quoted, Miss P explored other options. Her partner (a 
mortgage advisor) suggested applying for a new mortgage with Platform, through an 
intermediary channel, as the timescales were shorter (four weeks). Miss Ps mortgage was 
agreed within these timescales and her purchase completed four weeks later.  
Miss P complained to Platform about being charged an ERC in the circumstances. Platform 
didnt agree to waive the ERC, so Miss P raised a formal complaint. Miss P also raised 
concerns about Platforms complaints handling process. She says there was a lack of 
communication on Platforms part and it took eight weeks to provide a generic response. 
She also says she was accused of mortgage fraud. 
Unhappy with Platforms response, Miss P brought her complaint to our service. An 
investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought Platform was 
within its rights to charge an ERC in line with the terms of Miss Ps mortgage. Miss P didnt 
agree and asked for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. 
I issued my provisional findings to both parties to explain why I thought this complaint should 
be upheld. Platform didnt respond to my provisional findings. Miss P responded to say she 
agreed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree the ERC does form part of the terms and conditions of the mortgage, I must 
consider whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
Its clear Miss Ps intention to port her mortgage was driven by her desire to avoid paying an 
ERC. When she approached her lender (Platform) she was quoted timescales of 3-4 
months. Platform has acknowledged in its final response letter that its usual timescales of 6-
8 weeks was impacted by a high demand for its products and services. I must consider 
whether its fair for Miss P to suffer a loss as a result. 
Miss Ps preferred option was to port her mortgage. Had Platform been able to process her 
application within a reasonable timeframe, Im persuaded she would have proceeded with 
the application which was likely to be accepted as weve seen by the new mortgage being 
granted. 
The timescales quoted to Miss P didnt suit her and would put her at risk of her purchase 
falling through. This is supported by the fact she says she completed on her purchase in 8 
weeks. When considering everything, I dont think 3-4 months to consider a porting 
application is reasonable, especially as Platform was still able to turn around brand-new 
applications in four weeks.
Platform has provided a reason for the different turnaround times, but from Miss Ps 
perspective I can see why it would be difficult for her to understand the difference. So, in the 
circumstances I dont think it was unreasonable for her to consider other options. Miss P 
could have chosen to take a mortgage with a different lender, but she decided to apply again 
with Platform in the hope that as a remaining customer, it might consider waiving the ERC.
Im not persuaded it was fair to expect Miss P to wait 3-4 months for her application to be
processed and risk losing the home she wanted to purchase. Leaving customers with no 
choice but to explore other options is essentially removing a key feature of the mortgage  
the ability to port. In normal circumstances I wouldnt expect a lender to waive the ERC when 
a customer repays their mortgage early and applies for a new product. But as Miss Ps 
actions were driven by circumstances outside of her control, I dont think its fair that she 
suffers a loss as a result. 
During a call that took place on 3 November 2020, Platform asked Miss P about her living
arrangements. It asked whether she was living in her existing property or letting it out. The
latter would be in breach of her residential mortgage terms. There were notes on file 
suggesting her current property was being let, but that was her intention after purchasing her 
new property. Miss P has interpreted the question as an accusation of mortgage fraud. 
When considering everything, Im not persuaded that was Platforms intention. During the 
call Platform explained why the question was asked and apologised for the mistake. So, the 
confusion was cleared up at the time. 
Miss P says Platform took the full 8 weeks to respond to her complaint, only to provide a 
generic response. I can see that she was promised call backs during this time but on 
occasion she didnt hear back within the agree timescales. Businesses are allowed 8 weeks 
to respond to a complaint and Miss P should have allowed that. But if calls were agreed 
those should have been honoured. The first response issued in mid-December 2020 didnt 
include the full facts of the circumstances  including commenting on the key factor here, 
that being Miss P remaining a customer of Platforms and what impact, if any, this had on 
Platforms outcome of the complaint. So, Miss P had to get back in touch to ask Platform to 
explore that part of her complaint further. This led to another investigation and new final 
response being issued in Mid-January 2021. I find that this would have likely caused Miss P 
an element of unnecessary distress and inconvenience in the circumstances.Putting things right
For reasons Ive explained, Platform should put Miss P back in the position she would have 
been in if her ability to port wasnt restricted.
 
Platform says that on completion Miss P had around £89,000 outstanding on her existing 
mortgage. Her rate was 2.39% fixed until 31 December 2021. The new mortgage was for a 
total amount of around £269,000 on a rate of 1.85% fixed for five years. Other changes were 
made to the mortgage such as a term extension and adding a joint applicant  both of which 
could have been actioned as part of a porting application.
I think the most fair and reasonable way to settle this complaint and put things right for Miss 
P is to refund her the ERC applied. I appreciate Miss P has benefitted from a slightly lower 
rate on a small portion of her mortgage, but as explained the need to apply for a new 
mortgage was a consequence of the porting restrictions. Such a settlement will avoid 
causing the disruption of having to alter the mortgage retrospectively at any detriment to 
Miss P. 
As such, to ensure a fair compromise in the circumstances for both parties and to reflect the 
benefit that Miss P will receive as a result of the difference in interest rates, I wont be 
awarding further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Platforms 
errors during the complaint handing process or asking it to pay 8% interest on top of the 
ERC refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(trading as Platform) to refund the early repayment charge paid by Miss P.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman