DRN-3069766
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly refused to 
pay her claim under her pet policy. She also complained that she wasnt aware her policy had any 
limit on vet fees. 
  
What happened
In September 2018, Miss D took her dog to the vet because she had developed a lump. On 
re-examination in October 2018 the vet advice was to monitor the lump.
This monitoring went on in March 2019 and September 2019. There was no plan for any 
treatment or surgery. In March 2020 at the dogs annual check-up the vet noted the lump 
had grown. However, by 23 October 2020, the lump had grown considerably since the last 
check. Eventually the vet decided on 9 November that the lump should not be removed. 
Miss D then made a claim for the costs of this under her policy.
Miss D had an annual policy which provided a 365-day limit for claims from the date the 
condition was first noticed. Since this condition was first noticed in September 2018, Red 
Sands the 365-day limit was passed and so it wouldnt pay Miss Ds claim. It also explained 
that her policy provided £500 cover per condition with an annual condition for all conditions 
of £3,000 per yet. Miss D complained but Red Sands wouldnt change its stance, so she 
brought her complaint to us. 
 
The investigator was of the view that Red Sands should pay Miss Ds claim based on the vet 
evidence of her vet, but only up to the condition limits of her policy. She was also of the view 
that Red Sands should pay Miss D £100 compensation.
Red Sands disagreed so Miss Ds claim has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint in part. Ill now explain.
First there is no dispute given the policy documentation and indeed the varying renewal 
documents that Miss D bought a policy with a £500 condition limit with an overall annual limit 
of £3,000 for all conditions. Therefore, I consider that Red sands did nothing wrong in telling 
Miss D that any claim would be limited to these amounts.
Red Sands are aware of our stance on the matter of the 365-day limit, which I consider 
needs to be applied here, given the contents of the vet history of Miss Ds dog. I consider its 
not fair and reasonable to apply the limitation where its clear from the vet history that no 
treatment was advised or indicated at the time the issue was first noticed. This is the case 
here because there was no advice given by Miss Ds vet that her dog should have this lump 
removed until October 2020. This was on the clear basis that it was thought the lump was a 
fatty lump which should only be removed if it got much bigger and causing her dog some 
issues. And its clear this was the case in October 2020 as her dog was then finding it 
uncomfortable, given it had clearly increased considerably in size.
There has been no prejudice to Red Sands in relation to this because there were no 
complicating factors given the wait and see approach advised by the vet which was clearly in 
the dogs interest too. Therefore, I dont consider its exclusion imposed on 18 November 
2018 as regards lipomas to be fair either.
I consider the 365-day limit should be applied from the date the vet first indicated treatment 
and surgery should be considered which is from 23 October 2020. Since the treatment was 
done very shortly afterwards and well within the 365-day limit, the claim is therefore payable 
subject to the condition limit and the excess payable. Interest should be added from the date 
Miss D paid her vet also.  Obviously, once the 365-day limit expired there is nothing to say 
that Red Sands shouldnt impose an exclusion then.
I agree that Red Sands stance on the matter caused Miss D some worry and upset so I think 
its reasonable that Red Sands pays Miss D the sum of £100 compensation.
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to do the following:
Remove the exclusion for lipomas imposed in November 2018 and reset the 365-day 
limit from 23 October 2020.
Pay Miss Ds claim subject to the remaining policy conditions, adding interest of 8% 
simple from the date Miss D paid her vet to the date it reimburses her. If income tax 
is to be deducted from the interest, appropriate documentation should be provided to 
Mr B for HMRC purposes. 
Pay Miss D £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman