DRN-2276117
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society changed the address and phone number
linked to his account in response to a letter. He said the letter wasnt from him, and
Nationwide didnt check before it made the changes.
What happened
Mr B said that a credit card transaction requiring him to input his postcode was refused. His
credit card is with Nationwide, so he checked with it. He found that his address had been
changed without him knowing. Someone had written in asking for this.
Mr B said he was told the letter raised concerns because it asked for a new cheque book,
cheque guarantee card and PIN number. But Nationwide still changed his address, without
trying to contact him. It didnt send the requested items, or anything else confidential to the
new address.
Shortly after this, Mr B found that his mobile number had been changed too. He said that
Nationwide shouldve mentioned this when he asked why his address had been changed.
And Mr B said he was promised a copy of the fraudulent letter, but never got one. Mr B then
received a copy of the letter, and said he was even more worried once hed seen it. He didnt
think the £50 Nationwide paid him was enough for what had happened.
Nationwide said that it had received a request to amend Mr Bs address. The signature did
match the one held on file for him, so the request was actioned. Nationwide didnt think any
fraud had taken place in the weeks when Mr Bs address was wrong, but it suggested he
review his account just in case. And Nationwide said that it didnt think that it had refused to
send out a cheque card, PIN and chequebook because of fraud concerns, it thought that a
request for those had just been overlooked.
Nationwide said it had asked for Mr Bs number to be updated after he spoke to it about this.
It just took that team a little longer to action. Nationwide said because it had at first not sent
Mr B the fraudulent letter, and because there had been a short delay in updating his phone
number, it wanted to pay him £50 in compensation. Nationwide put that money in Mr Bs
account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Nationwide had
received instructions to change Mr Bs address. And those instructions contained a signature
sufficiently close to Mr Bs that our investigator didnt think Nationwide would know it wasnt
Mr B. Our investigator didnt think the letter was sufficiently suspicious that it ought to have
been dismissed.
Our investigator said that the £50 in compensation was the same amount as he wouldve
recommended if Nationwide hadnt already paid this. So he didnt think Nationwide had to do
any more.
Mr B didnt agree, he said there were two stages to his complaint. The first was that his
address had been changed, the second was that his mobile number had also been changed.
He said Nationwide ought to have checked the mobile number with him when he first spoke
to someone about his address. And he said that it was of great concern that a highly
suspicious letter would just be processed, especially as it appeared to contain a scanned
copy of his signature. He said he didnt want more compensation, he just wanted Nationwide
to learn from this.
Because there was no agreement, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then:
I dont agree with Mr B that the letter someone sent to Nationwide was suspect 
because of the signoff used. I dont think that the convention Mr B refers to for 
signing off business letters is universally understood. And, like our investigator, I 
think the signature on that letter was sufficiently close to Mr Bs that Nationwide 
wouldnt necessarily be suspicious on that account.
But I also note that the letter asks for a number of items, which, if sent, couldve 
allowed someone to empty Mr Bs accounts. Fortunately, these were not sent.
Mr B seems to be worried that Nationwide couldve accepted a change of address 
letter, without confirming whether it was genuine or not, and then sent out a new PIN, 
cheque card and chequebook to a fraudster. I know that didnt happen here, but 
seems a little surprising that in this case, Nationwide hasnt offered more 
reassurance over its security arrangements. I think Mr B mightve appreciated more 
reassurance on this.
Mr B also said that after he discussed the change of address, which he told 
Nationwide wasnt genuine, he then discovered that the same letter had also 
changed his mobile number. But Nationwide hadnt mentioned this to him. I think it 
ought to have done so, once it realised that the letter it had received wasnt genuine.
Mr B says he just wants to make sure Nationwide doesnt do the same thing again. 
But our service doesnt regulate banks and building societies, so I cant require 
Nationwide to learn lessons from this case. I can only look at the compensation paid, 
and see if it provides a fair and reasonable outcome. And, for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont think the £50 that Nationwide has paid is quite enough to make up for 
whats gone wrong here. I think that Nationwide should pay Mr B a further £50. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said he accepted my decision. And Nationwide said that it agreed the previous 
compensation didnt reflect the service issues, so it would pay £50 now. It confirmed it had 
already paid one amount of £50 that Id mentioned.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Nationwide must pay Mr B £50, in addition to the £50 it has already 
paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman