DRN-3172527
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) pursued her for a 
debt that wasnt hers.
What happened
In early 2020 Mrs C was the victim of identify theft. Several different banks contacted her to 
let her know accounts in her name had been opened fraudulently and would be closed. 
In April 2020 Mrs C was contacted about the repayment of a credit card debt of around £200 
with Barclaycard shes explained wasnt hers. She contacted Barclaycard by phone and by 
letter immediately to explain the debt wasnt hers but received no response. 
She returned a further debt collection letter at the end of April 2020, wrote to Barclaycard 
again in July 2020 to confirm the debt wasnt hers and returned a further letter at the end of 
July 2020. She continued to receive no response other than letters chasing repayment.
In August 2020 Mrs C contacted our service to make a complaint. Barclaycard wrote to Mrs 
C twice in September 2020, the first letter asking her for further details in order to investigate 
things, the second its final response. Mrs C has said she didnt receive either of these letters 
until our service forwarded them to her.
In its final response, Barclaycard said it accepted Mrs C had received poor service and 
offered her £50 in recognition of this. It again asked for further personal details so it could 
investigate the identity theft aspect of her complaint. Mrs C responded to Barclaycard with 
the information it required and explained to our service she was unhappy with the £50 
offered. In October 2020 Mrs C started to receive debt collection letters from a third party 
debt collector and wrote to it to confirm the debt wasnt hers. 
Barclaycard confirmed in January 2021 the debt had been removed from Mrs Cs credit file 
and she would no longer be pursued.
Our investigator considered the complaint and felt further compensation was due for the 
distress and inconvenience Mrs C was caused. They recommended £100. Mrs C didnt 
accept this as she didnt feel it was high enough. Barclaycard doesnt appear to have 
responded. As Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C feels Barclaycard shouldve noticed the account in her name had been opened 
fraudulently from the outset. Shes explained all the other accounts opened by the fraudster 
were identified by the banks involved without her intervention.
Its unfortunate Barclaycard wasnt able to identify the fraudulent account straight away and 
Im glad to see so many had in this case been able to do that. But each bank will have its 
own processes in dealing with account applications and it seems Barclaycard wasnt, on this 
occasion, able to identify the account was opened fraudulently until Mrs C got in touch. I 
dont think this in itself is Barclaycard acting unfairly. 
I also think its important to take into account that whilst Barclaycard has certainly caused 
delays in this case, it isnt responsible for the fact that Mrs C was a victim of fraud in the first 
place. There always wouldve been a degree of inconvenience and worry while she sorted 
this out. That said its clear Barclaycard didnt act as soon as I wouldve expected it to in this 
case and this has clearly prolonged the worry and inconvenience Mrs C has experienced.
Theres some dispute around the contact between Mrs C and Barclaycard. Barclaycard has 
no record of having been contacted by her before September 2020, although it does seem to 
have acknowledged shes received poor service.
But Ive seen copies of the letters Mrs C sent to Barclaycard and I can see theyre correctly 
addressed. And given her consistent version of events, I cant see any reason she wouldnt 
have sent the letters as shes said she did, or any reason they wouldnt have been received 
by Barclaycard. So it seems it is a failing on Barclaycards part these letters werent logged 
and responded to as I wouldve expected them to be.
Mrs C has also said she didnt received the letters Barclaycard sent her in September 2020. 
And Im not suggesting I disbelieve her, but in the same way I accept her letters were sent to 
Barclaycard, Ive accepted Barclaycards letters were sent to her.
I can see the first letter Mrs C has provided was sent on 9 April 2020 so I think from this date 
Barclaycard was in a position to take action and help her. Ive noted Mrs C has said she 
called two days prior to this. Its not clear to me if she spoke to someone on this occasion 
and her records say she was on hold for over an hour. But given the letter was two days 
after this and Barclaycard wouldnt have been able to resolve things instantly I think its 
reasonable to go from 9 April 2020.
In September 2020 Barclaycard first acknowledged Mrs Cs concerns and asked for more 
information from her in order to investigate her fraud claim. In the meantime it appears it 
allowed the debt, which by this point it knew was in dispute, to be passed to a third party 
debt collector who began contacting Mrs C. Whilst I accept Barclaycard didnt have all the 
information it felt it needed from Mrs C, given it knew the debt was disputed I think it 
wouldve been reasonable to place a hold on this action.
Mrs C provided all the information Barclaycard needed in order to investigate her claim on 
27 October 2020 after our service forwarded her Barclaycards request. It then didnt 
respond until 27 January 2021  three months later. Mrs C wasnt pursued during this 
period, but her credit file remained impacted and the worry she felt about the debt continued 
as she wasnt sure what was happening with it.
All in all I think Barclaycard can reasonably be held responsible for around nine months of 
delays, from early April 2020 when Mrs C first contacted it, until January 2021 when it 
resolved the matter.
During this period Mrs C has explained she was very stressed about the debt collection 
letters she received and the impact this situation had on her credit file which I dont doubt. I 
can see being pursued for a debt that wasnt hers together with a lack of response or 
acknowledgment from Barclaycard wouldve been stressful. Especially when the debt was 
then passed to a third party debt collector.In addition, shes explained that in January 2021, after receiving no further contact from 
Barclaycard further to its letter stating the debt would be removed, Mrs C signed up to a 
chargeable monthly service with a credit reference agency so she could check her credit file 
and get further support with the incorrect information recorded. 
I do acknowledge Mrs C wouldve been able to contact the credit reference agency and 
check her credit file without signing up for the chargeable service. But, I think she took this 
action because she wasnt sure where to turn given the lack of contact from Barclaycard. So 
whilst I dont think Barclaycard is entirely responsible for this cost, Ive taken this additional 
inconvenience into account in the round.
Mrs C has also spoken about the impact this situation had on those financially linked with 
her and that share her address, in particular the mobile phone contract her husband was 
unable to take out and the embarrassment and financial loss this caused. And whilst I accept 
the impact this likely wouldve had on those financially linked with her, Mrs C is the only 
eligible complainant in this case as only she was being pursued for the debt with 
Barclaycard. This means as part of this complaint Im only able to consider the impact 
Barclaycards actions had on her directly. So I havent been able to take the impact on her 
husbands finances into account.
Overall I dont think the £50 offered by Barclaycard is sufficient and I dont think it recognises 
the worry and frustration Mrs C has experienced given that for six months, and then a further 
three months, Barclaycard pursued her for a debt that wasnt hers and didnt acknowledge or 
investigate her claim after shed been a victim of fraud. I also dont think the £50 offered 
compensates her fairly for the amount of time shes clearly had to spend trying to resolve the 
matter. What reasonably ought to have been a few hours of inconvenience for her has 
become repeated correspondence to several different parties. 
Im aware the investigator has recommended £100 in this case, but Im increasing this to 
£200 as I think this is a more appropriate award in this case for the reasons given.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard to pay Mrs C 
a total of £200 in compensation. If the £50 previously offered has already been paid to her, it 
only need pay a further £150.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman