DRN-3656759
The complaint
Miss W complained because TSB Bank plc refused to refund her for transactions which she 
said she didnt make.
What happened
Shortly after midnight on 27 May 2022, Miss Ws benefit payment of £1,619.93 credited her 
TSB account. 
A new beneficiary was then set up on Miss Ws account. To do this, a one-time password 
was sent to the registered phone for Miss Ws account, and this password was then entered 
onto online banking. 
Two payments were then made to the new payee: one for £620 and the other for £510, 
totalling £1,130. These were completed by 00:22am.
At 8.30am, Miss W rang TSB. She said shed received a text saying that a new payee had 
been set up on her account. She said she hadnt done this, so shed gone onto her online 
banking and had seen the first payment. Shed changed her details, but by the time shed 
done this, the second payment had gone out.
TSB asked Miss W some questions. Miss W replied that she hadnt had any calls from 
anyone saying they were an internet provider, HMRC or the police. She hadnt given her 
details to anyone asking by text. When asked if shed had any issues with her phone, Miss 
W said it had kept freezing but was now fine. She memorised her personal details and her 
phone was face ID protected. She said she hadnt let anyone use her internet banking. 
TSB blocked online transactions and said it would investigate. After investigating, TSB 
declined Miss Ws claim. She complained.
In TSBs final response, it explained that an IP address is a unique number attached to a 
computer. IP addresses allow the location of devices to be pinpointed. TSBs records 
showed that the IP address used for the disputed transactions matched Miss Ws previous 
transactions, and there was no compromise to the device used. So TSB refused to overturn 
the decision to decline Miss Ws complaint.
Miss W wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. He said this was because he couldnt see 
how a third party could have accessed her phone, and TSB banking app, in order to set up 
the new beneficiary and make the payments. 
Miss W didnt agree. She told the investigator it was absolutely disgusting. She said over 
£1,000 had been stolen from her account, and neither TSB nor our service had done 
anything about it. 
The investigator explained that he could only ask TSB to refund Miss W if he could show it 
was likely that a third party had made the transactions  which he couldnt. He said hed 
spoken to Miss W, taken her testimony, and had looked at transaction records, processes 
and banking activity, but couldnt see how a third party could have carried out the 
transactions.
Miss W said she wondered if it could have been an internet purchase. Shed filled up a form 
but then cancelled it because she didnt trust it. But she hadnt given her memorable 
information to anyone. She said someone had got into her account and it wasnt her fault 
and needed sorting out. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The regulations which apply for 
Miss Ws complaint are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. These say that, in general 
terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, and the customer is 
liable if he did authorise them. So Ive considered the technical evidence to help decide 
whether its more likely than not that Miss W authorised the new payee, and the two disputed 
payments.
The technical evidence shows that:
- the device used to set up the payee and make the two disputed payments was one 
which Miss W had genuinely used before;
- the IP address  which, as Ive set out above, is a unique computer identifier -  
matched previous genuine transactions;
- the phone app was accessed using Miss Ws memorable information. She told us 
that she hadnt given her security information to anyone else;
- the new beneficiary was set up by a one-time password being sent to Miss Ws 
phone. Miss W said she never received this, but she received later one-time 
passwords to the same phone.
In view of this technical evidence, its hard to see how any third party could have set up the 
new payee and carried out the two disputed payments.
Ive also borne in mind that whoever set up the new beneficiary, and carried out the two 
payments, knew that Miss Ws benefit payment had arrived just minutes before. I cant see 
how any third party could have known exactly when this would happen so they could set up 
the new beneficiary and carry out the transactions. I can see from Miss Ws statements that 
there wouldnt have been enough money in her account to make these payments before the 
benefit payment had arrived.
Miss W suggested to the investigator that this might have happened because shed gone 
online to buy something, and filled up a form but then cancelled and hadnt sent it. This 
hadnt involved giving any of her memorable information. I dont consider that completing an 
online form which she then cancelled, could explain what happened here. It wouldnt explain 
any of the technical evidence which Ive set out above.
I recognise that Miss W feels very strongly about her complaint. But in view of the evidence 
about how the new payee was set up and how the two disputed payments were made, I 
cant see how any third party could have done this. So its most likely that Miss W set up the 
new payee and authorised the two disputed transactions herself.  This means its not open to 
me to order TSB to refund Miss W.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman