DRN-4268803
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with how Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited handled a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs L were in the USA in October 2022 and Mrs L became unwell. They contacted 
Admiral for assistance and didnt feel they were given much support. Mr and Mrs L 
complained to Admiral about the lack of assistance and delays in settling their claim.
In January 2023 Admirals emergency assistance provider issued a final response letter. 
They offered Mr and Mrs L £200 compensation as they acknowledged the communication 
could have been better. They explained, in summary, that there had been work going on 
behind the scenes but there had been some avoidable delays in getting Mrs Ls GP records. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought the £200 fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs L. Mr and Mrs L said that their main 
concern was the outstanding hospital bill in the USA. They said they didnt know if this had 
been settled and the £200 offer had been made before any of their claim expenses had been 
settled. Our investigator raised a separate new complaint in relation to these issues and 
clarified some other points Mr and Mrs L had raised in relation to her findings. 
As the investigator wasnt able to resolve Mr and Mrs Ls complaint the case was passed to 
me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Admiral has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. They should also provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress. 
Im focusing on what happened up until Admirals final response letter was issued in January 
2023. In summary, Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in 
December 2022 was about the lack of assistance they received, delays in claims handling 
and that they didnt know if Admiral was in touch with the hospital about settling the bill.
I dont think Mr and Mrs L received the level of service they should have but I think the offer 
of £200 is fair and reasonable. I say that because: 
Admiral were making repeated attempts to speak to the treating hospital in October 
2022. They werent getting a response despite trying different avenues of enquiry. 
But Im satisfied that they were trying to help Mr and Mrs L by getting the information 
they needed. However, this could have been communicated more clearly to Mr and 
Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L needed to change their flights as a result of Mrs Ls illness. This led to 
them incurring additional flight costs. I appreciate it was worrying for Mr and Mrs L 
not to have their insurers help during that time. But, due to the timescales involved 
between the treatment and Mr and Mrs Ls planned return home, I dont think it was 
unreasonable that Mr and Mrs L made the arrangements and claimed the costs back. 
In reaching this conclusion I bear in mind that cover had not yet been confirmed by 
Admiral for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
I can see from the assistance companys notes that they were finding it very difficult 
to get information from Mrs Ls GP. They needed this information in order to confirm 
cover. Thats standard industry practice as travel insurers will check GP notes 
against the medical information a policyholder declared when the policy was taken 
out. This information wasnt received until after Admirals final response letter was 
sent. This explains most of the delay in settling the claim up until the final response 
letter was issued.
I agree Admiral caused some delay as there was confusion about who needed to pay 
for the GP notes in December 2022. But when Admiral realised this, they paid for the 
notes in order to move things forward as quickly as possible. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ls comments about not knowing if Admiral were 
in touch with the hospital when they made this complaint. But, even if Admiral had 
been in touch with the treating hospital, they wouldnt have been in a position to 
settle the bill because they hadnt yet confirmed cover. They werent able to do this 
until the medical evidence was received and reviewed. 
Mr and Mrs L say that they were asked to provide some information more than once. 
That seems most likely based on the available evidence. I accept that would have 
been frustrating and also caused them further worry about what was happening with 
their claim. 
I think Admiral could have communicated with Mr and Mrs L much more clearly 
throughout the claims process, including explaining what would happen with the 
outstanding hospital bill. This didnt happen and it caused Mr and Mrs L to worry. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs L feel they are left with around £2 compensation 
because they had to pay the policy excess. But the excess is something which needs 
to be paid in the event of any claim. Thats clearly explained on the policy 
documents. And, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to waive that excess in 
the circumstances of this case. Im awarding compensation for the poor service 
Mr and Mrs L experienced which is a separate issue, albeit it amounts to a similar 
sum of money as the excess. Mr and Mrs L were in a position where they didnt feel their insurer helped them very 
much whilst they were abroad and that there were delays in settling a bill of a large 
sum of money theyd already paid. I accept that would have caused them worry and 
inconvenience. But I think the £200 compensation offered fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused by lack of communication and delays from late October 
2022 until the point the final response was issued in early January 2023.  
My final decision
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited should pay Mr and Mrs L £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman