DRN-1619009
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the valuation Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
placed on her car after it was deemed to be a total loss. Shes also unhappy with its level of 
service. Mrs B wants LV to increase its settlement offer for her car. 
What happened
Mrs Bs car was damaged in an accident and LV offered her £8,400 in settlement of her 
claim for the cars pre-accident market value. But Mrs B said her replacement car had cost 
more than this. Mrs B was also unhappy that a staff member provided poor customer 
service. LV apologised for this and offered Mrs B £100 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought LVs 
settlement offer was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to our approach 
and exceeded the highest valuation provided by the motor-trade guides we use. He also 
thought LVs apology and offer of compensation were sufficient for the impact of the poor 
service Mrs B received.
Mrs B replied that she wanted her complaint reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Bs accident, which wasnt her fault, and its circumstances. I 
can understand that dealing with the subsequent claim has been trying and frustrating for 
her. 
Mrs B complained to LV about one particular call with a staff member when she felt bullied 
into accepting LVs offer. LV agreed that the call didnt go well. It offered Mrs B £100 
compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award 
in similar circumstances and reflects the impact the call had on Mrs B. So I dont require LV 
to increase this. 
Mrs B wants LV to increase its settlement offer for her car. I can see that Mrs Bs policy with 
LV provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. 
We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations. We also take all other available evidence into account, for example, 
engineers reports.
Our investigator thought LVs offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he came to 
this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor-trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mrs Bs car. The valuations he found 
were all below the offer LV had made to Mrs B. Wed expect an insurer to offer a valuation 
within the range provided by the motor-trade guides. So I think that as LVs offer exceeded 
this, then it was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs B provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. Also, as the investigator has explained, the examples Mrs B 
provided had lower mileage than her car. So I dont think this is a reason for LV to increase 
its offer. 
Mrs B also provided receipts for work done on her car before the accident. I can see that 
these were costly. But we consider these to be maintenance work that wouldnt increase a 
cars value. 
So I think LVs valuation of Mrs Bs car was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly 
according to our approach. So I dont require it to increase this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman