DRN-3103359
The complaint
Ms M has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her fee- 
paying packaged bank accounts in February 2002, January 2007, April 2007 and May 2010.
Ms M says that these accounts were mis-sold because she was led to believe she had to 
have them to have a large overdraft limit. She also says that she was led to believe that she 
had to have them if she wanted access to a Private Bank Manager.
Account history
Ms Ms account history is as follows:
Upgraded to a Fee-paying Advantage Gold account - 21 February 2002
Downgraded to a fee-free Current Plus account  27 February 2002
Upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Private* account  8 January 2007
Downgraded to a fee-free Current Plus account  6 February 2007
Upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Private  3 April 2007
Downgraded to a fee-free Current Plus account  14 May 2010
Upgraded to a fee-paying Advantage Private account  24 May 2010
Account rebranded as a Black account**  6 February 2012
Downgraded to fee-free Select account  24 February 2020
* The Advantage Premier account was rebranded as the Advantage Private account in June
2006. The terms Advantage Premier and Advantage Private are interchangeable and any
mention of either account throughout our investigation and in this decision is referring to the
same packaged account.
** The Advantage Private account was rebranded as the Black account in 2012. For the
purposes of this complaint, the change to Black account is seen as a continuation of the
existing packaged account, rather than the sale of a new packaged account.
What happened
One of our ombudsmen has already decided that our service cannot consider Ms Ms
complaint about the sale of the Advantage Gold account in 2002, and the sale of the
Advantage Private accounts in 2007.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 December 2021 and explained why I thought the 
account sold in May 2010 was not mis-sold. I have included an extract of my provisional 
decision below and it forms part of this decision.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website. And 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having reviewed everything that has been provided, Im currently minded to not uphold Ms 
Ms complaint.
Firstly, I can see that when the adjudicator assessed the complaint, he concluded that even 
if the Advantage Private account had been mis-sold, he didnt think that Ms M had lost out 
because NatWest had explained that Ms M saved more as a result of having the account, 
than it cost to have.
Ms M disagreed with this and provided a number of reasons why she felt that was wrong. 
This included that once 8% simple compensatory interest is included in the calculations - 
before any benefit deduction is made  this means she was left out of pocket as a result of 
having the account.
In light of this, I have gone on to assess whether I think the Advantage Private account sold 
in May 2010 was mis-sold. And from what I have seen, I currently dont think it was.
Unfortunately, its not clear from the evidence that has been provided what exactly happened
in May 2010. What I mean by this, is that NatWest has been able to provide a signed 
application form dated 14 May 2010. This suggests that Ms M had signed a form to change
her account to a cheaper Advantage Gold packaged account. But NatWests records show
that on 14 May 2010 Ms Ms account was not changed to the Advantage Gold account and
was in fact changed to a fee-free Current Plus account, and her arranged overdraft limit
stayed the same. NatWest has also provided a copy of its records that show that an 
amendment was made to Ms Ms account details on 22 May 2010 and implemented on 24 
May 2010. This change resulted in Ms Ms account being changed back to the Advantage 
Private account that shed held only a few days previously.
Although NatWest has not been able to provide a copy of a signed application form for the 
Advantage Private account sold in May 2010, that does not necessarily mean that I must 
therefore find in Ms Ms favour. The reason being is that I must weigh up what I think was 
most likely to have happened based on all of the evidence that is available.
In this case, Ms M has said that she was led to believe she had to have the packaged 
account to have a large overdraft and to have access to a private bank manager. But she 
has also said she does not recall the changes made to her account in May 2010. And as far 
as Ms M was concerned, shed only had the one packaged account since 2007.
Therefore I cant reasonably conclude that the wrong doings that Ms M says NatWest carried
out relate to the changes to the account in May 2010  as I think that Ms M is actually
referring to when the account was first sold to her. I say this particularly as Ms M had a
£15,000 arranged overdraft on her account for many years prior to May 2010, and this did
not change in May 2010  either when it was changed temporarily to a free account or after
itd been changed back to the Advantage Private account. However, as outlined above,
whether Ms M was or wasnt given misleading information about the Advantage Private
account prior to May 2010 is something that unfortunately Im unable to consider.
So looking at everything that has been provided, I think that the changes that were made to
Ms Ms account in May 2010 was not actually a sale as such, but more likely an 
administrative action whereby NatWest had simply reinstated the account back to being an
Advantage Private account again after itd been incorrectly changed to a fee-free Current
Plus account. Therefore, based on what Ive seen so far, I cant reasonably conclude that
NatWest had mis-led Ms M in 2010 to believe she had to have the Advantage Private 
account to keep her large overdraft or have access to a private banking manager, as Ms M
has said happened.
Furthermore, even if I thought that the change of account that took place in May 2010 was a
sale, I still dont think that it was mis-sold.The reason why I say that is because, firstly, I cant rule out the possibility that Ms M was
made aware that a fee-free Private account was available, but she now simply cant recall
being told about it. If this is the case, I think it would be entirely understandable given that we
are talking about events that took place over 11 years ago.
I also dont think that the account was mis-sold, because looking at the difference between
the Advantage Private account and fee-free Private account, the savings that Ms M would
receive by having the Advantage Private account outweighed the cost, by some margin.
To explain, I have looked back through historical account information from around May 2010.
And from what I have seen, the fee-free Private account only included a £100 interest-free
overdraft benefit, with balances overdrawn by more than this amount incurring interest at a
rate of 19.24% EAR (up to an arranged limit).
Conversely, information from the same time shows that the Advantage Private account cost
£19.95 per month or £239, if paid annually. But in return for the fee, the account included a
£250 interest-free overdraft benefit, with balances overdrawn by more than this amount
incurring interest at a lower rate of 13.50% EAR (up to an arranged limit).
In May 2010, Ms M had an arranged overdraft limit of £15,000, and I can see from 
statements that she was regularly operating the account right up to the limit in May 2010. So
based on how Ms M was operating her account at the time, its clear that the savings Ms M
would gain by having the Advantage Private account (compared to what shed be charged to
use her large overdraft on a fee-free Private Account) outweighed the monthly cost of having
it. Ms M has said that she does not recall being told about the overdraft benefits of the 
account. But then again, Ms M doesnt recall having any interaction with NatWest about
changing her account in 2010. So I think its possible that this was discussed with her and
she now cant recall it being discussed.
So if it was the case that the Advantage Private account was sold again to Ms M in May
2010, I see little reason why the member of staff would feel the need to mislead Ms M into
thinking that the Advantage Private account was her only way of retaining her large 
overdraft. Afterall, it made financial sense for Ms M to have the account, rather than a fee-
free alternative at the time anyway.
So if it was the case that NatWest did recommend Ms M upgrade back to the Advantage
Private account in May 2010 (not that I think it did), then I think its likely that NatWest did so
because of Ms Ms overdraft usage. And in the circumstances, I think such a 
recommendation would not have been unreasonable - even if it was the case that Ms M had
zero need for any of the other benefits it came with.
I appreciate that Ms M stopped using her overdraft in 2015, although she said that she kept
the large overdraft limit on her account just in case she needed it again. However, if it was
the case that Ms M no longer wanted to keep paying for the Black account after 2015, she
couldve discussed what alternatives were available to her at that point. But either way, I
cant say that NatWest had done anything in May 2010 to make Ms M believe that she had
to keep the fee-paying Advantage Private (later Black account) to retain her large overdraft
limit.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I dont think that the Advantage Private account
was mis-sold in May 2010. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to require NatWest
to refund the account fees Ms M paid for the account since then.
I invited both parties to provide any further information they would like me to consider by 13 
January 2022, before I make a final decision. Neither party responded.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason 
why I should reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
As such, based on everything that I have seen, I dont think that NatWest did mis-sell the 
Advantage Private account that was sold in May 2010. I therefore dont think it would be 
appropriate to require NatWest to refund the account fees Ms M paid for the account since 
then.
My final decision
Because of the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman