DRN-2875114
The complaint
Mr M complains U K Insurance Limited handled his farmers motor insurance policy claim 
unfairly.
 
What happened
In May 2017 a slurry tanker belonging to Mr M was damaged. He claimed on his UKI farmer 
motor insurance policy. UKI said the damage had been caused by the tankers wheel nuts 
being tightened beyond the recommended torque. It said that meant Mr M had breached a 
policy condition requiring him to keep his vehicle in an efficient, safe and roadworthy 
condition  and to protect it from loss or damage. So it declined his claim. 
Mr M wasnt happy with the refusal. So in April 2018 he provided an engineers report. That 
didnt change UKIs position. After that there were various developments, until in response to 
a complaint in April 2019, UKI accepted the claim. It accepted Mr M hadnt deliberately 
overtightened the wheel nuts. It apologised for not accepting the claim sooner. The 
complaint response requested Mr M provide UKI with details of any financial loss caused by 
its refusal of his claim. 
The tanker was considered a total loss. It was settled based on a value of about £32,000. 
Costs of repairs coming to a few thousand pounds were also covered. Mr M retained the 
tankers salvage for a deduction of £600. 
Mr M requested UKI cover consequential losses and expenses of about £180,000. That 
included about £160,000 loss of income, £13,400 loss on an umbilical system bought as a 
temporary replacement for the tanker and £7,200 to cover its finance payments for a period. 
In a complaint response, in September 2019, UKI said the losses Mr M had submitted were 
largely speculative. It offered him, on a good will basis, £2,500 to reflect the interest on the 
value of the slurry tanker and £750 to recognise the distress inconvenience he had been 
caused. It also offered to cover the £480 cost of a report.   
Mr M wasnt happy with that. So he came to this service. In May 2020 our investigator issued 
her initial opinion. Her findings included the following. She said UKIs settlement for the 
tanker at £32,000 minus £600 for the salvage was fair. She didnt think the insurer had done 
anything wrong by not initially accepting the claim. But she felt it should have completed 
further inspections earlier. She said this would have resulted in it accepting the claim in 
September 2017 rather than May 2019.  She felt UKI should cover a loss of income for the 
years 2017, 2018 and 2019 but for no longer than. She said £47,888 would be an 
appropriate amount. She felt other losses Mr M had stated were too speculative. 
The investigator said UKI should cover the trade-in loss of the umbilical system plus the cost 
of any finance Mr M paid from September 2017. And she felt UKIs compensation offer of 
£750 was too low. She recommended he be paid £1,500 instead. 
Mr M accepted the investigators recommendations. UKI agreed to all the proposals except 
for those relating to the umbilical system. It paid Mr M an interim payment of about £57,000. 
to cover three years loss of income plus interest and £1,500 compensation. Because it didnt 
agree to the umbilical system recommendation the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. Following that UKI offered Mr M £9,510 more to settle the claim. He didnt accept 
that. He also said he thought £1,500 wasnt enough compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by UKI. 
In June 2021 I issued a provisional decision for the complaint. It forms part of this final 
decision. So Ive copied in my reasons for why I thought UKIs offer of a further £9,510 and 
the £1,500 compensation were fair and reasonable. I concluded that I didnt intend to require 
UKI to pay anything more. In it I also asked Mr M and UKI to provide anything further they 
would like me to consider before coming to a final decision.  
UKI responded, saying its still willing to pay Mr M £9,510. Mr M accepted my finding that the 
£1,500 compensation already paid was fair. But he didnt agree that UKIs offer of £9,510 
was reasonable. He provided a detailed response to my reasoning on that issue.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As this is an informal service, in this provisional decision I havent responded to or 
addressed every point Mr Ms made. Instead Ive focused on what I consider the key 
issues and points. But Id like to reassure him and UKI that Ive considered 
everything provided. 
Mr Ms confirmed hes accepted the resolutions provided for most of the complaint 
now. The only thing outstanding for him now is the umbilical system. UKI hasnt 
agreed to the investigators proposed redress for that issue. Instead its made a 
further offer to settle the complaint. 
UKI said it accepted the investigators finding that the claim should have been settled 
in September 2017 rather than May 2019. In light of that it offered to pay the increase 
in cost of a replacement tanker between those two dates  about £2,500.  It said it 
would pay £5,060 to cover the negative equity Mr M would have faced had he traded 
in the umbilical system in May 2019. It also offered to cover the interest part of 
Mr Ms finance payments for that item between the two dates. 
UKIs total offer is £9,510. Mr M says he would settle for £16,700. So Ive considered 
if UKIs current offer is fair or if it should do more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
UKI feel Mr Ms had extensive use of the umbilical system so it isnt prepared to offer 
anything beyond £9,510. Mr M says he wouldnt have bought the umbilical system at 
all if he hadnt been made aware in early summer 2017 that UKI was intending to 
refuse his claim. He says that meant he needed a replacement system of some sort 
to distribute slurry on his own farm. Hes explained how theres only limited 
opportunity to do that. Hes explained how he couldnt afford, with the claim not being 
settled, to buy a replacement tanker. Hes also said the umbilical system was 
available to purchase immediately unlike other systems. 
Our investigator said UKI hadnt made an error by initially looking to decline the claim 
based on the content of a May 2017 report. But she felt it should have responded to 
valid concerns raised by Mr Ms broker in August 2017. She said it should have, at 
that point, arranged an independent inspection. She felt if it had the claim would have 
been accepted within a month  so September 2017. Having considered the issue, I feel the investigator came to a reasonable conclusion. 
Insurance claims of this nature can be complex. They can, even without any 
mistakes, take time to investigate. UKI had two reports by August 2017 that didnt 
support Mr Ms claim as payable. The broker did make reasonable arguments in 
response. And as the investigator says UKI probably should have arranged a further 
inspection in response, rather than wait for Mr M to provide a report some time later. 
So I agree the claim should reasonably have been settled around September 2017. 
Mr Ms explained how important it was for him to distribute slurry. How he needs to 
be ready to do so on the rare occasions the weather allows for it. And hes explained 
how difficult it would be to rely on a contractor. Hes said how the umbilical system 
was available immediately. So I feel its likely he would have bought the umbilical 
system in the summer of 2017 in any event, as he was without his tanker and was 
awaiting the claim outcome. I think thats likely to have been the case even if UKI 
hadnt indicated at that point it was going to refuse his claim. So I find he would likely 
have still been in the same position even if UKI had instead just fairly paid out in 
September of that year.
Its difficult for me to agree with the investigator that, without UKIs mistake, Mr M 
would have traded in the umbilical system in September 2017. Thats because he 
didnt trade it in after his claim was settled in May 2019. Hes explained why he didnt. 
He couldnt take the risk of extra finance costs for a new tanker when he had lost so 
much work. But I cant fairly say he wouldnt have been in a similar position in 
September 2017 or shortly after. 
Ive seen a valuation, of about £30,000 excluding VAT, for the umbilical system from 
September 2017. Thats what Mr M might have received for it had he sold it at the 
point UKI should have fairly settled his claim. But UKI settled Mr Ms claim in May 
2019. Part of the difficulty of unwinding all this is that Mr M didnt at that point sell the 
umbilical system. 
Instead Mr M recently received £16,700 for it. So thats a potential loss of value of 
just over £13,000. So he had the system for a further two years. He says he didnt 
use it often in that period. He says he tried to sell it but didnt receive reasonable 
offers. I accept that may be the case. However, hes still had the potential use of it for 
some time after UKI settled his claim. So it wouldnt seem fair for him to have it for 
that period at no cost to himself.
Ive considered the finance payments Mr M paid for the system. Overall, its difficult 
to say, considering the passage of time, and intervening events how much more 
finance interest UKIs mistakes caused him to pay. As I explained he didnt sell the 
system until two years after the claim was settled. 
But I feel UKI should contribute something towards the umbilical system. Considering 
the above its hard to know exactly how much. Having considered everything 
provided I cant say UKIs offer of £9,510 isnt a fair and reasonable amount to settle 
the outstanding issue. So I intend to decide that UKI should settle Mr Ms complaint 
by paying the amount its offered  but I wont be requiring it to pay anything more.  
Mr M feels the impact of UKIs failure to pay his claim at an earlier date has had a 
significant impact on him. He says £1,500 isnt enough to reflect the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience it caused him. I think with the nature of the claim Mr M 
would have experienced a fair level of distress and inconvenience even if UKI had 
settled it in fair time. That includes a probable loss of contracts and income. UKIs 
mistake has clearly caused him a significant amount of additional distress and inconvenience. But I feel the £1,500 already paid is a fair amount to recognise this. 
So I dont intend to require UKI to pay any extra compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M says he hasnt stated hes willing to accept £16,700 as a settlement to his complaint. I 
took that from figures he had provided. I apologise for mis-interpreting them. In any event it 
doesnt make a difference to the outcome of the complaint. Im still considering if UKI should 
pay him more than £9,510.
Mr Ms provided a detailed explanation of why £9,510 isnt enough to make up for losses 
caused by UKI in relation to the umbilical system. A lot of what hes said has been provided 
previously. Some is new information. Whilst, as this is an informal service, I havent 
responded to what hes said in detail I have considered everything hes provided. That 
includes what he says about having no option but to commit to the umbilical system in 2017, 
its trade in value at various points in time, why he didnt trade it in in May 2019 and how he 
made little use of it after that date.  
But overall, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I still feel its likely he would 
have bought umbilical system in the summer of 2017 in any event  even if UKI hadnt made 
any mistakes with his claim. I still think he still had the potential use of the system for some 
time after his claim was settled. So I still dont think it would be fair if Mr M didnt bear a 
reasonable proportion of the cost of the system himself. 
Its very difficult for me to know exactly how much UKI should contribute towards the costs. 
Mr Ms recently referred to a figure of almost £23,000 plus interest. But that, plus the 
payment he received for its sale, would result in him contributing very little towards the 
overall cost of the system. Unfortunately, he hasnt persuaded me that UKI should pay him 
more than £9,510. I think that seems fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So to resolve 
the complaint I require UKI pay him that amount. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr M, in addition to what its 
already paid him, a further £9,510.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman