DRN-2546494
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) declined a claim 
under his home insurance policy for storm damage to his roof.
What happened
Mr B made a claim to LV in late August 2020 after discovering water damage to the ceiling 
of his living room. He said he only went into that room about once a month.
LV considered the claim under the storm damage section of the policy. It sent a contractor 
to inspect the roof. Later it declined the claim for external damage on the basis that there 
hadnt been a storm at the relevant time. It also said its contractor had found that poor 
workmanship had caused the roof to let in water. But it said it would cover the internal 
damage as accidental damage. 
Mr B complained to LV. He said LV had only looked at whether thered been a storm 
around 20 July 2020 whereas there had been storms from 19 to 21 August. He reminded 
LV that it had declined a similar storm claim two years previously but that decision had 
been overturned.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She thought 
there had been a storm but she didnt think there was evidence of actual storm damage.
As Mr B didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Based on weather records I accept that there were storm conditions in Mr Bs local area 
around the time that the damage came to light. 
Regarding the second question, LVs contractor noted that there was no physical damage to 
any part of Mr Bs roof including the roof tiles. It said the wrong sort of roof valley had been 
used between two roof slopes during a repair by Mr Bs contractor about two years ago. It 
said the valley was designed for use on a slate roof not a tiled one like Mr Bs. It thought 
water was able to get in around the side of the roof valley.
Mr B disputes this. He says the valley is designed for use with plain tiles and slates.
What I have to decide is whether the nature of the damage to the roof is consistent with 
storm damage. The sort of roof damage Id expect to see following a storm would be 
missing, broken or dislodged roof tiles. In this case there didnt appear to be any visible 
signs of damage to the roof. LV was entitled to rely on its contractors opinion to decline part 
of Mr Bs claim and I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so. I dont think Mr B has 
thrown sufficient doubt on its conclusion to make me think that LV should change its 
position. Although he disputes that the wrong roof valley was used, I still dont think hes 
shown that the nature of the damage was consistent with storm damage. My conclusion is 
that LVs decision to decline Mr Bs claim for external damage to his roof was fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman