DRN-2151211
The complaint
Ms E says Provident Personal Credit Limited lent to her irresponsibly. She says she was 
advised by Provident to keep relending and this eventually meant that she couldnt really 
afford to live. She says that the lending has negatively affected her credit history over a long 
period of time. 
What happened
This complaint is about ten home collected loans Provident provided to Ms E between 
January 2006 and July 2007.
loan 
numberdate takenamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date repaid
1 28/01/2006 £284 45 16/12/2006
2 18/03/2006 £1,000 80 17/03/2007
3 08/07/2006 £350 55 18/11/2006
4 19/08/2006 £100 55 20/01/2007
5 18/11/2006 £900 105 outstanding
6 20/01/2007 £300 45 17/03/2007
7 20/01/2007 £550 55 outstanding
8 17/03/2007 £2,000 105 outstanding
9 12/05/2007 £400 55 outstanding
10 28/07/2007 £250 55 outstanding
Our adjudicator said that loans 1 to 8 were not within the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction. This is because the lending was approved before the time home collected loans 
were a regulated product. 
Our adjudicator upheld the reminder of the lending. They thought that Provident shouldve 
realised, from the pattern of lending, that Ms Es indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
by loan 9 and so it wouldnt be right to continue to lend to her.
Ms E disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. She thought that all of the loans should be 
considered. Provident didnt fully respond. 
So as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to irresponsible lending - including all of the relevant 
rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Provident needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms E 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Provident should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Es complaint. Ive decided to uphold Ms Es 
complaint in part and have explained why below.
Why I cant consider loans 1 to 8
In order to consider a complaint it needs to be within this services jurisdiction. That is, it has 
to be about a product or issue that the rules I operate under say I am allowed to make 
decision about. I cant look at every complaint that is brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
To look at a complaint about this type of credit I need to be satisfied that at the time of the 
sale it was a product that was, at the time, regulated. But this type of credit wasnt regulated 
until April 2007. So, this means I cant consider any of this lending before this date because 
in terms of the rules, it wasnt a regulated product that this service can investigate. And from 
the table above, loans 1 to 8 were approved before April 2007. So, I dont have the power to 
make a finding as to whether loans 1  8 were suitable (or not) because they issued at a 
time when this service didnt have jurisdiction to consider such complaints. So to be clear, I cant consider whether Provident did something wrong about loans 1  8. 
But I can consider what happened when loans 9 and 10 were granted, because these were 
provided after April 2007. 
My decision about loans 9 and 10
However, Ive gone on to consider the pattern of lending over all of these loans.  Whilst I 
cant issue a decision about loans 1 to 8 they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms E 
had with Provident. So, the loans are something I can take into account when considering 
the other loans she was granted.
By loan 9 Ms E had already been indebted to Provident for around a year and a half. Whilst 
the loan amounts varied there was no evidence to suggest that Ms E would be able to stop 
using this type of credit in the near future. So I think the lending history, and pattern of 
lending itself, clearly demonstrates that further lending was likely to be unsustainable. 
I think that Ms E lost out because Provident continued to provide borrowing from loan 9 
onwards because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Es indebtedness by 
allowing her to take expensive credit over an extended period of time. And the length of time 
over which Ms E borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on her ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
I think Provident was irresponsible to continue lending after this point. So Im upholding the 
complaint about loans 9 and 10 and Provident should put things right.
Putting things right
Provident shouldnt have given Ms E loans 9 and 10.
If Provident has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if Provident are able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Provident are not able to buy the debts back then 
Provident should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Provident should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms E towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
Provident has already refunded.
B) Provident should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms E 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Provident should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Ms E as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms E having made 
overpayments then Provident should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Provident should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Ms E. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Provident should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms E. Provident shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Provident has already written-off.E) The overall pattern of Ms Es borrowing for loans 9 and 10 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Provident should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms Es credit file. Provident do not have to remove loans 9 and 10 from Ms Es credit file 
until these have been repaid, but Provident should still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to deduct tax from this interest. Provident 
should give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax Provident has deducted, if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Es complaint.
Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman