DRN-1139397
 
The complaint
Mr P says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card in 1998, and at the same time bought a regular premium PPI 
policy. The policy cost around 77p per every £100 of the outstanding monthly balance on his 
credit card. 
This policy covered Mr P in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld because he thought he made 
it clear in his credit card application he wanted to take out the policy and thought it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit. 
Mr P disagreed. He says he didnt know the policy was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Lloyds had to make it clear Mr P had a choice in taking the policy. Lloyds have given me a 
copy of Mr Ps credit agreement. I can see that theres a separate section on the application 
form that deals with optional features and under the title PAYMENT PROTECTION PLAN it 
gives the option to take PPI by ticking a box next to the words I wish to apply for Payment 
Protection Plan. I can see on Mr Ps application form a tick has been placed next to this. 
I think there is enough there for Mr P to understand he didnt need to take PPI because he 
couldve just left the section blank. So I think Mr P selected to take PPI with a tick because 
he wanted the cover. 
To be fair to Mr P I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised sale. What this means 
is that Lloyds not only had to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mr P could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to 
make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and 
circumstances.I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But from what I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P for 
the following reasons:
 
He was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
Mr P says he wouldve been entitled to a generous level of sick pay but had no other 
means of making his credit card payments if he couldnt work. But the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer covering his credit card 
payments for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness or 
lost his job. So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr P in his 
circumstances. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to him at the time and 
if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mr P information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. I dont know if Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr P has told us 
about his circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed 
been given all the proper information on the policy.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman