DRN-2796264
The complaint
Ms D is complaining about how HSBC UK Bank Plc have handled her queries in relation to 
an old current account.
What happened
In November 2020, HSBC sent Ms D a cheque for £25. The attached letter said HSBC had 
reviewed the quality of service that Ms D had received from the collections and/or recoveries 
team. Because the quality of service didnt meet their expected standard HSBC were paying 
£25 in compensation.
Ms D saw some reports online that the letter wasnt genuine and personal information had 
been misused. So she was concerned and queried the letter with HSBC. She said shed 
been an HSBC customer some years previously and hadnt received any other information 
about how her data or her personal account had been used in recent years. She initially 
asked HSBC for a breakdown of the issues investigated and some more context. She raised 
a complaint when she didnt get a helpful response.
HSBC replied to Ms D. They said the compensation had been paid because Ms D might 
have received a letter before action without prior contact to discuss alternative solutions for 
recovering Ms Ds debt. They said theyd followed correct procedures at the time but might 
now act differently and the £25 was to acknowledge this.
In relation to Ms Ds personal data, HSBC said theyd used one of the credit reference 
agencies to check former customers addresses. They said they strictly adhered to all data 
protection laws and destroyed information at the appropriate times.
Ms D wasnt happy with HSBCs response. She said theyd taken too long to deal with her 
complaint and hadnt addressed her points  instead theyd provided vague summaries. She 
asked our investigator to look into it further. She said shed been a victim of fraud in the past 
and was concerned HSBCs actions may have caused this.
Our investigator looked into Ms Ds complaint but didnt uphold it. He said our service isnt 
able to look into complaints about complaint handling so he couldnt consider that aspect of 
Ms Ds complaint. He said he thought HSBC had done enough to explain why they sent a 
cheque to Ms D. And he hadnt seen anything to suggest HSBC had sent letters to incorrect 
addresses for Ms D  or otherwise misused her data. He suggested Ms D could contact 
HSBC for a data subject access request (DSAR) if she wanted to know exactly what 
information they hold about her.
Ms D didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said she still felt HSBC acted poorly and 
didnt deal with her concerns in a reasonable manner. Ms D felt HSBC had been unable to 
provide her with information and had fobbed her off  despite the requirements of the Data 
Protection Act. Ms D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing 
for her but Ill explain more below.
HSBC sent Ms D a cheque for £25 because theyre reviewing the processes they previously 
followed when trying to recover debts from customers. Ive seen the letter before action sent 
to Ms D in November 2010 and this shows that at the time the bank was trying to recover a 
debt of over £600 from Ms D. HSBC have explained that although they complied with 
regulations they wouldnt go about recovering debts in the same way now so theyve offered 
consumers a goodwill gesture to apologise for any upset the letter before action may have 
caused.
Ms Ds complained that HSBC didnt fully explain their investigation and the explanation they 
gave her was quite vague. I can understand why she might have found HSBCs response a 
little vague as it used language such as you may have received. But Im satisfied HSBC did 
provide enough explanation of why they sent Ms D a cheque for £25  they dont need to 
give any further details about their investigation.  
Ms Ds also concerned about the use of her personal data. HSBC have confirmed that 
Ms Ds account was closed in December 2010. And theyve shown that they didnt make any 
attempt to contact Ms D between 2010 and 2020. Theyve also explained that when they did 
contact Ms D in 2020 they used a third party to get hold of her address because they thought 
it was reasonably likely shed have moved house since they were last in touch with her. I 
havent seen any evidence that HSBC have misused Ms Ds account or her data  and Ms D 
hasnt been able to provide any specific examples  so Im not upholding this aspect of 
Ms Ds complaint. 
Ms Ds also upset that HSBC took some time to respond to her queries and her complaint. 
However, there are certain activities that our rules dont allow us to look into  and complaint 
handling is one of them. So whilst I appreciate that Ms Ds frustrated by the length of time 
HSBC took to reply to her, Im not able to consider this as part of my decision. 
If Ms D continues to have concerns about her data, she could ask HSBC to send her all the 
information they hold about her as part of a DSAR. And she could contact the Information 
Commissioners Office, which is the body responsible for regulating compliance with data 
protection laws.
My final decision
Your text here As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint about HSBC UK 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman