DRN-2319133
The complaint
Ms W complains that Santander UK plc didnt take account of her disability when she visited 
a branch. She also says that when she complained Santander UK plc didnt deal with her 
complaint appropriately.
What happened
Ms W has a current account with Santander. She attended a branch counter to carry out a 
number of transactions. These included transferring funds from her personal account to a 
Santander business account, held in the name of a third party.
Ms W says the cashier told her that she shouldve used the machine to make the lodgement 
to the account. Ms W explained that she couldnt use the machine because she had a 
disability. She says that despite this the cashier suggested she couldve used the internet or 
voice recognition software to make the lodgement. Ms W says the cashier was aggressive 
and insensitive.
Later that day she phoned Santander to complain about the way she was treated. She says 
the person she spoke to wasnt helpful. She says he lectured her about using the branch to 
make a lodgement to a business account. She asked to speak to a supervisor but says she 
was put through to a colleague of the first person shed spoken to. She was told that shed 
been treated appropriately on the first call.
Santander investigated her complaint. It said its policy was to tell all customers about
alternative ways of banking. It apologised if shed been offended but said that any offence 
caused was unintentional. Santander also told her that in future when she visited a branch 
she should speak to a Branch Director to make him/her aware of her disability.
Santander also said that it had reviewed the calls Ms W had made when she complained 
and it was satisfied that the call handlers hadnt been argumentative, rude or unhelpful. In 
the circumstances it wouldnt provide the call handlers with any feedback about the calls.
Ms W was dissatisfied with this response and so she complained to our service. Our
investigator looked into her complaint. She said she was satisfied that Santander had
followed its normal procedures when the cashier talked to Ms W about alternative ways of 
banking. Whilst she agreed that Santander might have been more sensitive if it had known 
about Ms Ws circumstances she thought that it had acted fairly and reasonably when it 
investigated her complaint.
Ms W didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so my intention is to 
uphold this complaint. Ill set out why.
At the outset Id just point out that although Ms W was making a payment to a 
business account at Santanders branch, she was transferring funds from her 
personal account. She says that the complaint relates to her personal account. And, 
Santander has confirmed that it has no objection to this service looking into the 
complaint.
Ms W says that she was upset after visiting the branch. She says that the questions 
the cashier asked her were insensitive. Santander says its policy is to encourage 
customers to use digital options rather than a branch counter. It says the cashier was 
following that policy when she asked Ms W about using alternative ways to make 
payments to the business account.
I can understand why Ms W wouldve felt upset when she was being asked to explain 
why she hadnt used the machine or the internet to carry out the transactions. Ms W 
has acknowledged that she doesnt think the cashier intended to cause offence. But, 
that doesnt mean that offence wasnt caused. And, its a reason why following the 
same policy in all situations doesnt always bring fair outcomes in certain individual 
circumstances. I think thats what happened here.
I can see that Ms W had contacted Santander on a number of occasions to advise it 
about her disability. Santander accepts it had received this information but it says 
that the information related only to security questions that Ms W didnt want to be 
asked. Ive thought about that. Whilst I can see that the information was recorded in 
the context of security questions, Ms W had told Santander about her disability.
Where a customer has told a financial organisation she has a disability then best 
practice says she should only have to provide that information once. The 
organisation should then be smart in its use of technology to make sure that the data 
is used appropriately across its systems. Thats what I would have expected here.
I can see that Santander did put the information about Ms Ws disability on its 
customer alerts system. But, Santander says its cashiers dont have to consult that 
system when dealing with customers at its counters. It says that this would cause 
delays. So, Santander has said that its up to Ms W to speak to the Branch Director 
on each occasion that she visits a branch to remind it that she has a disability.
I agree that in a busy branch it may cause delays if a separate system has to be 
consulted before dealing with a customer. But, having considered the matter, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Ms W to have to speak to a Branch Director 
every time that she visits a branch.
Ms W has also raised issues about how her complaint was handled. Its not for this 
service to tell Santander what procedures or processes it should put in place as a 
business. Nor can this service look into her concerns around this here, where they 
specifically relate to a complaints process, which is not a regulated financial activity. 
So, Ive made no findings about this issue.
What should Santander do to put things right?
Its not clear whether Santanders systems are capable of doing what Ms W wants 
them to do. And while its not for this service to tell it what procedures and systems to 
have in place  I am currently of the opinion that these are having an unfair impact in 
Ms Ws individual circumstances. So, in response to this provisional decision, 
Santander should explain what it can practically do to ensure that Ms W doesnt have to keep telling it about her disability when she contacts it. If there are any limitations, 
Santander should clearly explain what these are.
Santander should also pay Ms W £150 for the trouble and upset that she was caused 
as a result of these matters.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint against Santander UK plc and I would require it to take the following 
actions:
ensure that Ms W doesnt have to keep telling it about her disability - explaining 
to this service what it can do to achieve this in response to this provisional 
decision; and
pay Ms W £150 for the trouble and upset that she was caused as a result of 
these matters.
Santander responded to my provisional decision. It said it was willing to settle the complaint 
and would pay Ms W £150. But it said it couldnt guarantee Ms W wouldnt have to tell it 
about her disability in the future. It offered to take the following actions:
make a specific note on its systems recording details of Ms Ws disability and the fact 
that she does not wish to be asked to use an ATM. It said it could use whatever 
wording, on its systems, Ms W required.
If Ms W wanted to specify a particular branch which she usually used, Santander 
said it would contact the branch manager and let him/her know about Ms Ws 
circumstances and ask him/her to specifically note that Ms W doesnt want to be 
asked to use an ATM. 
Santander said it was constantly reviewing it processes and procedures and may be able to 
offer alternative solutions in future.
Ms W was asked to comment on what Santander had said. She said she was willing to 
accept £150 by way of compensation. She wasnt happy that Santander should record 
personal details about her circumstances. She said she would reserve her right to take these 
matters up again in the future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response, Santander agreed to pay the amount of compensation (£150) which I had 
set out in my provisional decision. Ms W also agreed to accept this.
Santander indicated it couldnt guarantee Ms W wouldnt be asked to use an ATM in the 
future. It said that due to current circumstances, its policy was to encourage customers to 
use ATMs and the internet. I can understand why that is the case. Its offered to record Ms 
Ws disability on its systems and the fact she doesnt want to be asked to use an ATM. Its 
also offered to make sure that the branch manager in the branch she usually uses, is aware 
of Ms Ws circumstances.
Ms W expressed concerns about what Santander said. She said, because she was 
registered as disabled, it shouldnt be necessary for Santander to record any further details 
on its systems. She thought some of the personal details Santander wanted to record were 
personally intrusive. She said other organisations didnt require this level of personal 
information.Ive thought about what both Santander and Ms W have said. Santander does have a duty 
under the Equality Act 2010 to make reasonable adjustments, in circumstances where Ms W 
has told it about her disability. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account when deciding 
this complaint  given that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based 
on whats fair and reasonable. Only a court can decide if Santander has breached the 
Equality Act 2010.
Having considered everything here I think what Santander has proposed is fair and 
reasonable. Its offered to make a more detailed note on its systems indicating that Ms W 
shouldnt be asked to use an ATM and its offered to alert the branch manager, of the branch 
Ms W usually visits, about her specific requirements. Its also offered to tailor the wording of 
these alerts in a way agreed with Ms W. 
Whilst Santander has indicated this wont guarantee Ms W will be asked to use an ATM or 
online banking in the future, I think it will go some way to ensuring this is much less likely to 
happen. Its up to Ms W to decide whether she wants Santander to take these actions. I 
dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Santander UK plc. I now require it 
to take the following actions:
Pay £150 by way of compensation for the distress and inconvenience Ms W 
experienced. 
And, if Ms W requests it to
Santander UK plc should make a note on its systems recording details of Ms Ws 
disability and the fact that she does not wish to be asked to use an ATM or online 
banking. It should agree the wording of this note with Ms W; and
Confirm with Ms W which branch she usually uses. Once that is confirmed Santander 
UK plc should contact the branch manager of that branch, inform him/her about Ms 
Ws circumstances and ask him/her to specifically note that Ms W doesnt want to be 
asked to use an ATM or online banking.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman