DRN-2867627
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy he was unable to use a debit card issued by Santander UK Plc on three 
occasions. He also complains he wasnt called back as promised. 
 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr W has made several complaints about Santander, to be clear I am only considering the 
complaint outlined above in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr W had problems with transactions not being authorised. I appreciate this would 
have been frustrating for him, but I need to establish that the reason why the 
payments did go through was due to an error on Santanders part.
Santander has provided us with information from its systems to show one transaction 
was declined as a PIN was incorrect and two others werent properly called for by the 
terminal  there could be several reasons for that such as it losing connection or the 
merchant requesting a PIN rather than allowing a contactless payment.  
From the information available to me I cant see it was an error by Santander which 
meant these payments didnt go through. 
When Mr W called to report this issue, he was promised a call back the following day 
which didnt take place.  Santander has recognised this was poor service and offered 
Mr W £30 compensation  I think this is fair and reasonable.
As a precaution Santander also ordered Mr W a new card just in case there were 
issues with the card. It also reminded Mr W, it was likely his card would still work in a 
cash machines and he could use online or telephone banking in the meantime, 
should he need to make any transactions. I think these were sensible and reasonable 
actions to take.
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman