DRN-1820046
 
Complaint
Mr J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted irresponsibly when it increased his 
arranged overdraft several times even though it knew or ought to have known that he 
couldnt afford it.
Background
Mr J had an arranged overdraft with Barclays. Mr J requested and was granted an increased 
overdraft on a number of occasions as set out below:
November 2017          £1,750
December 2017          £1,840
August 2018                £2,000
August 2018                £3,000
Mr Js overdraft, at its highest point before the end of August 2018, exceeded the approved 
limit by approximately £350.
Mr J says that he was a part-time student and had a gambling addiction. Although he was 
also working part-time he says that he couldnt afford to repay the overdraft. He says that he 
had to ask his parents to clear the overdraft for him as it was causing him considerable 
stress. The overdraft was cleared in October 2018 when funds were received from his 
parents.
Shortly after this Mr Js account was designated as a student account with an arranged 
overdraft of £250. Mr J asked for this to be increased by a small amount but his application 
was declined. Barclays says that the reason for this was because of the number of gambling 
transactions on his account. Mr J says that he cannot understand why this application was 
declined when just a few months earlier he had been granted a facility of £3,000, even 
though there were also gambling transactions on his account at that time. He says that 
Barclays decision to increase his limit in August 2018 was irresponsible.
Mr J complained to Barclays. It said that Mr J had met its internal qualifying criteria when he 
was granted the increased overdraft in August 2018. It said that its system had reviewed 
several factors, including whether he could afford the increase, before granting the increased 
limits. It also said that after his account had been designated as a student account any 
requests for an increase in the overdraft were dealt with manually. As there had been 
gambling transactions in the previous 12 month period the application was declined in line 
with Barclays internal procedures. Mr J was unhappy with this response and so he referred 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. He said that on each occasion Barclays had 
applied its own internal procedures fairly and accurately and that it wasnt unreasonable for it to apply different criteria to an ordinary account compared to a student account. As Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong he didnt uphold Mr Js complaint.
Mr J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision in which I said: 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before making a decision to grant or increase an overdraft a lender is required to carry 
out a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of the consumer. That requires 
the lender to consider a number of factors including information from the consumer, 
from credit reference agencies and from its own records. In addition the lender is 
required to carry out a borrower focused assessment of ability to repay the amount 
borrowed in a sustainable way. These checks enable the lender to satisfy itself that 
the consumer can afford the overdraft and is unlikely to experience financial difficulty. 
Sometimes, where the lender is aware of special circumstances, it is required to take 
extra steps to ensure that any lending decision is responsible.
So, when looking at Mr Js complaint about the increases in his credit limit in August 
2018, Ive considered the actions that Barclays took when it agreed to increase the 
overdraft from £1,840 to £2,000 and then to £3000. Mr J has said that he had an 
approved limit in August 2018 of £4,100 but I cant find any evidence to support that. I 
can see that at one point in August 2018 he exceeded his approved limit by £350 but 
the approved limit was never more than £3,000.
In considering what Barclays knew about Mr Js situation when it provided the 
overdraft, I can see that he had asked for an increase in his overdraft in May 2018. At 
that time he made several phone calls to Barclays to complain about the fact that it 
refused to increase his overdraft. Ive listened carefully to those telephone calls. Mr J 
told Barclays that he needed an emergency increase in his overdraft to tide him over 
until the end of the month since he had overspent whilst abroad. He said that he 
expected Barclays to help him because it should see that he was constantly in his 
overdraft and that although his salary was clearing the overdraft each month he 
immediately had to use the overdraft again. 
He said that this should signal to Barclays that he was in financial difficulty. Barclays 
explained to him that where a consumer was using the overdraft that in itself would not 
signal financial difficulties. It offered to refer him to its financial difficulties team. It told 
him that the financial difficulties team might be able to defer charges and work through 
the account with him but these actions might affect his credit file. Mr J said he didnt 
want to do this, but I think that was a fair response from Barclays. Even though Mr J 
was asking for an increase in his overdraft Barclays acted responsibly, in May, when it 
declined his request. It also suggested to him that he could pay off part of his overdraft 
each month by reducing his expenditure but Mr J said that was not possible. 
Mr J didnt mention his gambling addiction at this time. Barclays says that it wouldnt 
have known about this and in any event, says that it cant dictate how a customer 
spends his/her disposable income. 
But Ive considered that Barclays knew all of this about Mr J when it carried out its 
assessment in August 2018. Barclays used its systems to do this, explaining that Mr J 
had a pre-approved limit on his account which is reviewed monthly and that the increased limits granted in August were within that pre-approved limit. I can also see 
that Mr J had managed his account within the agreed limit over a period of time and 
that his salary was credited to his account on a monthly basis. Mr J had a significant 
number of gambling transactions on his account but the fact that there are gambling 
transactions would not, on its own, mean that the increased overdraft was 
unaffordable. 
So its clear that Barclays has followed its usual procedures here in terms of giving Mr 
J the overdraft. But sometimes procedures like this will result in an unfair outcome for 
individual customers and I think thats whats happened here. 
I say this because there were a number of warning signals by August 2018, which 
Barclays shouldve considered in more detail before lending to Mr J again. Those 
warning signals included the conversations that he had with Barclays in May 2018; the 
fact that his overdraft was not being reduced over time but rather was under constant 
strain; and the indicators of gambling transactions on his account.
So I think Barclays shouldve looked at Mr Js circumstances in more detail before 
agreeing to lend here. Had it done so, I think it wouldve seen a number of factors that 
should have made it think twice before giving him the overdraft. So, on balance Im not 
satisfied that Barclays took the extra steps that I wouldve expected it to take before 
increasing the credit limits in August 2018. I realise that Mr J has now repaid the 
overdraft in full  but hes explained that was because he received financial help from 
his parents to do so, given the situation here.
What I propose Barclays should do to put things right?
I can see that Mr J did have the benefit of the increased overdraft and I think its fair 
that he should have had to pay it back. So, I dont agree with Mr J that he should be 
refunded the amount that his parents paid off in October 2018.
But, given that I dont think Barclays should have lent him this money  it follows that 
its not fair for Mr J to pay any more back than the actual amount he borrowed and 
used. I can see that between August and October a total sum of £127.50 was applied 
to Mr Js account in respect of overdraft charges. Whilst I can see that some of these 
charges related to the original limit on his account I think its fair and reasonable that 
the whole amount should be refunded to him.
In addition, I think that this situation has caused Mr J some distress and 
inconvenience. For that, I think Barclays should pay him £100.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and I would require it to take the following 
actions:
Pay Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced as a 
result of its actions; and
Refund the overdraft charges of £127.50 paid to it in August, September and 
October 2018 
 Barclays has accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr J hasnt accepted the decision and has provided extra information which he feels is 
relevant to his complaint. So I now need to reach a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr J asked me to consider 2 further additional 
documents. The first document is a statement dated 3 October 2018. This statement shows 
that there was an arranged overdraft limit on the account at that time of £3590. Ive looked 
again at the statements for the period from August 2018 until October 2018 and I can see 
that the actual overdrawn balance on the account was never more than £3350. Thats in line 
with what Id said in my provisional decision. So, even though the information that Id been 
given about the approved limit was incorrect, it doesnt change the basis on which Id 
reached my decision.  
Ive also thought about how any further increase in the limit even after August 2018 mightve 
impacted Mr J. In my provisional decision I said that Barclays should refund all the overdraft 
charges that Mr J had been charged in August, September and October. Id also pointed out 
that some of those charges wouldve been in relation to the amount of the overdraft before 
any increase was applied in August. So, Im satisfied that Mr J didnt incur any further 
charges even though the approved limit after August may have been increased to £3590.  
Mr J has also provided a second document which sets out an annual summary of charges. 
That document indicates the amount of charges that Mr J incurred for the year ending 
November 2018. But, as Ive mentioned above, it was Barclays decision to increase the limit 
in August which Id been concerned about. There already was an overdraft in place prior to 
that date which Mr J used and for which charges wouldve correctly applied. I dont think its 
fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to refund any of those charges. 
Having taken everything into account, Im satisfied that the proposed compensation set out 
in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable given all the circumstances. I wont be 
requiring Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
I now require it to take the following actions:
Pay Mr J £100 for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced as a result of 
its actions; and
Refund the overdraft charges of £127.50 from August, September and October 2018 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
 
 
  
Irene Martin
Ombudsman