DRN-3170015
The complaint
1) Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that a claim under their home insurance policy wasnt 
investigated properly by Fairmead Limited.
2) They say Fairmead didnt tell them their claim had been declined.
3) Theyre also unhappy with the way their claim was handled.
What happened
4)Mr and Mrs J took out a home insurance policy through an intermediary. Fairmead 
became the insurer under the policy from 15 July 2017. References to Fairmead include 
its predecessors.
5) Fairmead used an agent, P, to handle claims under the policy.
6) Mr J says he made a claim to P in August 2017.
7) According to P, Mr J notified it of a claim in January 2018.
8) Mr J said his basement walls were wet.
9) P instructed a loss adjuster to investigate.
10) The loss adjuster arranged for a drains specialist to visit the property later in January to 
inspect the drains.
11) The drains specialist said there was a section of pipework its camera couldnt get to.
12) This section ran from the direction of the wet part of the basement and so it thought it 
could be related to the damp problem.
13) To investigate this it said it needed to break through the concrete floor in the basement 
kitchen to a depth of up to 0.9m.
14) Mr J didnt want to agree to that unless Fairmead provided alternative accommodation.
15) P said it couldnt confirm that until it knew that the cause of the dampness was 
something covered by the policy.
16) In March 2018 P appointed another company to find out whether there was a water leak.
17) Mr J didnt agree to this as he didnt think there was a water leak.
18) In March 2018 Fairmeads loss adjuster wrote to Mr J, telling him Fairmead didnt accept 
liability for the claim as it couldnt confirm the cause of the dampness.
19) In June 2018 P closed the claim.
20) In March 2019 Mr J sent P a report from his home emergency insurers drainage 
specialist suggesting there was a fracture in a rainwater gully.
21) In June 2019 Ps loss adjuster said based on the evidence it had, the damage had 
happened before the policy with Fairmead had started and so the damage wasnt 
covered by the policy.
22) Mr J said he inadvertently copied in the media on an email. Following that, P referred the 
matter to Fairmead.
23) Mr J said he didnt know who was dealing with the claim.
24) P said it didnt issue a final response letter as Mr J had told it in June 2019 that he didnt 
want to register a formal complaint.
25) In August 2019 Fairmead confirmed to Mr J that it was declining the claim on the basis 
that the damage had taken place before the policy started.
26) In March 2020 Mr J told P as part of a claim on their home emergency insurance their 
bath, sink and flooring were going to be removed from the bathroom in the basement to 
install a new gully in an inaccessible front light well.
27) Mr J asked P to pay the cost of reinstating his bathroom and alternative accommodation.
28) P asked for more information including a copy of the report prepared for that insurer, 
details of the works theyd carried out and the reason for them. P said without that 
information it wouldnt consider covering the cost of the repairs or alternative 
accommodation.
29) Mr J provided a copy of a response from his home emergency insurer to a complaint 
hed made to it. P thought the correspondence suggested that the work carried out by 
the home emergency insurer related to the same issues with damp raised in the original 
claim.
30) P emailed Mr J on 13 May 2020 to advise that it wouldnt be proceeding without the 
further information it had requested. It issued a final response on 25 May 2020 stating 
there was no evidence it should be dealing with the claim and that without the further 
information it had requested there was nothing further it could do.
31) P has confirmed that a second claim was never formally logged for Mr and Mrs J as 
based on what it had been told, it thought the claim wouldnt be valid.
32) Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service.
33) Mr J is a disabled consumer with a number of serious health and personal issues.
34)  I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in 
part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
35)Mr and Mrs Js policy covered them for insured events such as accidental damage to 
services and escape of water.
36)  However the policy also states that it doesnt cover any pre-existing loss or damage. So 
under their policy with Fairmead Mr and Mrs J were only covered for damage from 15 
July 2017, being the date the policy started.
37) I need to decide whether the damage claimed for (dampness in their basement) 
happened before 15 July 2017. If its not clear exactly when the damage happened, Ill 
reach a decision based on whats most likely to be the case taking into account the 
available evidence.
38) When Fairmeads loss adjuster visited the property in January 2018, they noticed that in 
the basement the cupboard in the hall and the corner of the bathroom were wet. The loss 
adjuster also reported a small amount of plasterwork damage by the chimney breast in 
the kitchen and bathroom.
39) The loss adjuster noted that Mr and Mrs J had first experienced problems in 2011 when 
their local water company had done work on the sewers. I can see from a report 
prepared by the water company that it had made several investigations between 2011 
and 2014. In 2014 a report prepared by the water company referred to a damp patch in 
the hallway cupboard.40) In 2015 Mr and Mrs J had their home surveyed by a property maintenance company who 
later installed a tanking system in the basement. The 2015 survey report referred to the 
following damage in the basement:
Visual evidence indicates a problem of penetrating damp through the front elevation 
cupboard in the front wall. It is evident that the existing plastering / tanking system has 
deteriorated.
Visual evidence also indicates a problem of plaster salt contamination to the central chimney 
breast which is accessible in the WC and rear room.
41) Mr and Mrs Js home emergency insurer visited the property on 10 July 2017 just before 
the policy with Fairmead started. At that time they found possible water penetration from 
front of the house in cupboard area on sub level floor.
42) Based on these observations from a number of different parties of damp in the basement 
cupboard and damage to the plasterwork on the chimney breast before 15 July 2017, I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Fairmead to conclude that the damage had started 
before Mr and Mrs J took out their policy with it. Mr and Mrs J may wish to contact their 
previous buildings insurer regarding this  claim.
43)  It follows that I dont think Fairmead treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly by not investigating 
the cause of damage after its initial investigations since I dont think Mr and Mrs J have 
shown the damage had most likely been caused after the policy started.
44)  When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that on the balance of 
probabilities, an insured event has caused the damage theyre claiming for. Ive looked at 
the evidence Mr J provided to P in support of the claim for alternative accommodation 
and reinstatement. That evidence referred to a leak from the gully in the light well. It 
didnt say what damage that leak had  caused.
45)  In the absence of this information Fairmead couldnt tell whether the damage was the 
same as that in the original claim. I dont think Fairmead treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly in 
saying it didnt have enough information to accept or decline the 2020 claim.
46) Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J because I can see that throughout the period of the 
claim to the present Mr J has suffered serious health problems while Mrs J has been his 
main carer and they have been living in very difficult conditions. But for the reasons 
explained Im not persuaded that theyve shown they have a valid claim under their 
policy with Fairmead, which I appreciate will come as disappointing news.
47) It wasnt clear to Mr and Mrs J why their complaint was referred back to Fairmead by P 
when the media was copied in on an email. Mr J thinks this was either something P 
made up or a policy term which wasnt made plain. Im prepared to accept that it was part 
of an arrangement between Fairmead and P (rather than a policy term) and not one that 
needed to be disclosed to policyholders until it became relevant.
48)Although in principle such an arrangement isnt unfair, in this case I can see that the way 
it was handled led to Mr J being passed back and forth between Fairmead and P so that 
it wasnt clear to him who was responsible for what. I think this would have caused him 
unnecessary distress. To put things right I think Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset caused by this.
49) Fairmead accepted my provisional decision. Mr J made a number of submissions which 
Ive carefully considered. In summary he said:
50) Previous investigations had established his drains were in good condition in 2017.
51) Fairmead and one of Mr and Mrss Js previous insurers are part of the same financial 
services group. So he thought either way a group company was liable.52) Mr J would like me to tell him which insurer I think is liable for the claim if I find that 
Fairmead isnt.
53) The previous insurer in the same group as Fairmead had refused at one point to reinsure 
Mr and Mrs J.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
54) In particular Im grateful for the detailed submissions received from Mr J. Ive considered 
all the points hes raised but in this decision I only refer to ones I think are relevant to the 
complaint. 
55) I accept that Mr and Mrs Js drains were found to be in good condition in 2017. But I note 
that the report from the drains specialist referred to a gully in the basement well not 
being accessible. I think its likely that this is the same gully that was replaced in March 
2020 as part of the home emergency claim because it was leaking. So I dont think the 
report shows that the problem with the gully most likely started after the policy with 
Fairmead was taken out as no-one could reach it to inspect it in 2017. Bearing in mind 
the other evidence of dampness in the basement referred to in my provisional findings 
above Im still not persuaded Fairmead treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly by not investigating 
the cause of damage after its initial investigations since I dont think Mr and Mrs J have 
shown the damage had most likely been caused after the policy started.
56) Its still not clear what damage that leaking gully had caused. So I remain of the opinion 
that it wasnt unfair of Fairmead to say it didnt have enough information to accept or 
decline the 2020 claim.
57) I appreciate that by not telling Mr and Mrs J that another insurer is liable for their claim 
their situation is uncertain which is a very unsatisfactory state of affairs for them, 
especially bearing in mind their circumstances. But I am only looking at their complaint 
against Fairmead and in this decision the only party I can require to do anything is 
Fairmead. In any event I dont know the terms of the insurance cover they had 
previously. So it would be wrong for me to suggest that another party might be liable for 
Mr and Mrs Js claim.
58) The fact that Mr and Mrs Js previous insurer chose not to offer renewal should have no 
bearing on how it handles any claim for damage that arose during the time it did insure 
Mr and Mrs Js property. 
59)  Mr and Mrs J have provided me with more information about their health and disability 
problems. Although that doesnt change my decision in respect of their claim, I think its 
unfortunate that they were caused unnecessary distress at times by Fairmeads poor 
handling of it at times. 
Putting things right
60) To put things right for its poor claim handling I think Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs J 
compensation of £250 for the trouble and upset it caused them.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J 
£250 compensation for the way their claim was handled. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman