DRN-2954275
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was misinformed about a Tech Pack she was sold in August 
2020 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) and lost out as a result.
What happened
I have previously issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision, outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
What happened
Miss M says she took out the Tech Pack with Barclays after reading the information 
Barclays provided and contacting it by phone for clarification about the gadget insurance.
Miss M says Barclays told her on the phone that an item which had a value of over 
£1500, was covered by the insurance but her claim would be capped at £1500 if she 
had to make one.
Subsequently a device was stolen from her and when she claimed for it, the insurer declined 
her claim completely citing that it was because the device had a sale price of over £1500.
Barclays says it provided the correct information to Miss M.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the information Barclays gave Miss M in writing and Ive listened to recordings 
of two calls Miss M had with Barclays.
If one reads the information Barclays provided to Miss M in full, I think the terms and 
conditions say that any device which is bought for more than £1500 is not covered by the 
Tech Pack gadget insurance policy. I believe Miss M accepts this and that is why she has 
not pursued a complaint against the insurer.
Instead her complaint is that the summary literature she received about the gadget 
insurance was not clear, and she points out that the summary documentation provides a 
phone number (in that section only) to call if youre unsure what is covered.
She says she phoned that number and the Barclays representative told her that any 
gadget would be covered, but she would only receive up to a limit of £1500 if she had to 
make a claim. She says she went ahead with the Tech Pack on this basis.
In my view Miss M has been clear, specific and consistent in her testimony.
I asked Barclays for copies of any call recordings it has relevant to this complaint. Barclays
sent two call recordings, both from after Miss Ms claim.
In one of those two calls Barclays representative clearly agrees with Miss Ms 
interpretation of the policy cover. In my view this indicates that the type of cover is not 
easy to understand, and Barclays staff may well have struggled to describe it correctly.
Taking into account the nature of Miss Ms testimony and the response of the Barclays 
representative in the call recording I listened to, I think its more likely than not that Barclays 
misled Miss M into thinking she had cover for the device she lost, when in fact she hadnt.
I therefore am minded to uphold Miss Ms complaint. In these unusual circumstances, I 
dont think it would be right to refund Miss Ms monthly Tech Pack fees as these paid for 
the cover she wanted. However, I think its fair and reasonable for Barclays to pay £1500
that I believe it led her to think she would get if she lost a gadget device.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, both parties have replied.
Barclays has made an offer based on what it says the insurer would have paid related to the 
value of the device at the time it was lost, adding interest and a sum for distress and 
inconvenience.
Miss M rejected the offer and asked about how to apply for further redress from Barclays for 
the delays to settling her case.
Ive considered both parties submissions carefully. In my view the insurance wouldve 
replaced Miss Ms device with a like for like device so I can understand Barclays approach to 
its offer. 
But I dont think its offer takes into account that Miss M had to act to replace her device 
because Barclays didnt accept her claim, and she has had to pursue her case over a long 
period.
So, I think my original view that Barclays should pay Miss M £1500 is a fair and reasonable 
way to cover both the financial loss that Miss M experienced related to her device and the 
distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
To be clear, as Miss M has asked about this in her correspondence, this means that if Miss 
M accepts this decision, she would not be able to ask Barclays for further compensation 
related to this case thereafter.
Putting things right
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Miss M the sum of £1500.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint and require Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay Miss M redress as described in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman