The complaint
Mr K has complained that HSBC Life (UK) Limited has turned down a claim made under his 
critical illness insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2001 Mr K and his wife Mrs K took out an equity release loan for £45,000 for 18 
years in a bank branch. Mr and Mrs K also had a mortgage with the same bank with an 
outstanding balance of £152,500 which, at the time, had a remaining term of 17 years. This 
mortgage was interest-only and was supported by endowments which provided life cover.
The bank recommended Mr K take out a critical illness policy to provide cover for the 
existing mortgage; the Survival Plan, and also a Level Term Assurance with Critical Illness 
cover for the equity release loan. Sadly Mr K was diagnosed with cancer in July 2018. A 
claim was accepted under the Level Term Assurance with Critical Illness cover. But as 
Survival Plan had expired on 18 April 2018, no cover was in place when the diagnosis was 
made and the claim was declined.
Mr K complained about the term of the Survival Plan  he thought it shouldve been for 18 
years  like the other policy he was recommended to take out. This is the subject of a 
separate complaint with our service. He also thought it would be fair for HSBC to pay the 
claim made under the Survival Plan. This was because his cancer was at an advanced stage 
at the time of diagnosis and his consultant believed it wouldve been present before the 
policy expired. HSBC didnt change its decision as it said the diagnosis had to be made 
before the policy expired.
Mr K referred his complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold it. She was 
satisfied that the policy terms clearly stated that for a claim for critical illness benefit to be 
payable, diagnosis had to be made before the policy expired.
Mr K provided a new report from a consultant which confirmed he wouldve most likely met 
the policy definition for cancer at some time in 2017, several months before the policy 
expired. Mr K also provided some previous final decisions issued by ombudsmen at our 
service which he felt showed claims could be admitted after the policy expired.
The report was shared with HSBC, but it didnt change its position. The investigator also 
didnt think this made a difference to her opinion of the case. So, Mr K asked for a final 
decision on the matter. He said HSBC had encouraged him to send in more evidence, which 
is why hed provided the report. He felt HSBC was going back on what it had said  he felt 
his claim should be accepted based on the new report.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1343917reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr K at what is 
already a difficult time for him and his family. Ive given careful thought to the points hes 
raised, but I dont think HSBC has treated him unfairly by declining to pay his claim. Ill 
explain why.
Mr K has provided us with a number of final decisions issued by ombudsmen at our service. 
He says these demonstrate that weve asked businesses before to pay critical illness claims 
where the diagnosis was made after the policy expired. But I think its important to say here 
that each case is decided on its own merits. I have to make a decision based on what I think 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so, I have to take 
into account the terms and conditions applicable to Mr Ks policy, which may be different to 
the terms involved in the other cases hes asked us to consider.
9. Critical Illness Benefit
Provided that the Schedule shows that the Policy provides Critical Illness Benefit on the Life 
Assured then:
a.Subject to Condition 11 upon the survival of the Life Assured for 28 days after the 
happening of the Event Assured Against where the Life Assured is suffering from a 
Critical Illness the Sum Assured shall become payable
b.Critical Illness means the Diagnosis of any one or more of the following illnesses
 
11. Restrictions and Requirements relating to Illness Benefits
The following restrictions and requirements shall apply
Timing of Diagnosis
The Date of Diagnosis or the date on which the Life Assured undergoes a type of surgery 
included within the definition of Critical Illness must occur prior to the Policy being 
terminated
The policy also includes the following definitions:
Date of Diagnosis
Means the date of the letter confirming Diagnosis.
Diagnosis
Means an unequivocal confirmation of illness, disease, or disability of the Life Assured 
contained in a dated letter to the Company from a registered medical practitioner (this 
includes hospital consultants) whose professional status is recognised by the Company.
The effect of these terms is that critical illness benefit will be payable upon diagnosis of a 
critical illness and the diagnosis must occur before the policy ends.
Mr Ks Survival Plan ended on 18 April 2018, and he was diagnosed with cancer on 11 July 
2018. While Mr Ks doctors have said that the cancer wouldve been present before 
diagnosis and wouldve met the policy definition before the plan expired, the diagnosis was 
only confirmed after a biopsy was performed in July 2018. The unequivocal confirmation of the cancer couldnt have been made before then. And as the diagnosis came after the policy 
ended, I dont think the critical illness benefit is payable. So, I dont think HSBCs decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable.
Mr K has said that he provided a substantial medico-legal report commenting on how long 
his cancer wouldve been present and at what point it wouldve met the policy definition. He 
feels he was encouraged to do so by an email from HSBC dated 11 December 2018.
The email said:
The critical illness cover is set up to pay out on diagnosis within the term of the policy. We 
do not dispute that there is every chance the cancer was present prior to your diagnosis but 
we cannot estimate at which point the cancer had progressed to the point that the criteria 
would have been met.
I note that you have discussed the matter with your Consultant. If your Consultant is happy 
to his opinion/comments in writing to us, we will be happy to review the decision, however 
there is no guarantee that anything will change.
I accept that in this email HSBC explained the reasons why it only pays a claim from the 
date of diagnosis and that it would consider further evidence. I dont think that was 
necessarily unreasonable, particularly as it said that there was no guarantee its decision 
would change.
I appreciate that Mr K interpreted this differently. But Im mindful that he received HSBCs 
final response letter dated 7 June 2019, which explained that a claim could only be accepted 
if diagnosis was made within the policy term. The specific terms relating to the date of 
diagnosis were referenced. This message was reiterated by the investigator in her opinion of 
19 September 2019. All of this pre-dated the medico-legal report dated 7 October 2019. So, I 
dont think it was reasonable for Mr K to base his decision to obtain a further medical report 
on the comments in the email alone.
Overall, I dont think Mr K was given reason to believe that if he provided further evidence 
about how long his cancer wouldve been present and at what point it wouldve met the 
policy definition, that HSBC would pay the claim.
I know that this isnt the outcome Mr K was hoping for, but I dont think HSBCs decision to 
decline the claim was unreasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman