DRN-4088571
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions she didnt recognise.
What happened
Mrs S was reviewing her statements and noted a large number of transactions using her 
debit card had been made to a merchant who provide phone and internet related services. 
Ill refer to the merchant as G. The payments, approximately 57, totalling over £500 had 
been carried out over several months. These payments were made for online games.
Mrs S approached G about them and received refunds for some of them (around £200), but 
they told her that they couldnt deal with the older transactions and to approach her bank 
about them. Mrs S asked Lloyds about the payments and told them she hadnt authorised 
them. 
Lloyds investigated the payments and asked Mrs S some questions about the use of her 
card and phone. Mrs S confirmed that she didnt play games and that she hadnt given her 
card details to anyone else. She didnt believe anyone else had access to her account with 
G, access to her phone or knew the password. Lloyds explained that a common IP address 
was used to make both disputed and undisputed transactions.
Over a number of calls, Mrs S explained she was passed from operator to operator and 
generally left confused about how to deal with the issue. Mrs S complained that shed been 
sworn at by one of the operators and basically been called a liar. Lloyds later accepted that 
theyd provided poor customer service to Mrs S and paid £50 plus £12 for calls to recognise 
the poor service but they denied dealing with her inappropriately. 
Lloyds assessed that it was unlikely that anyone else was responsible for the transactions 
and advised Mrs S they were declining to make a refund for the remaining disputed 
transactions to G.
Mrs S was left unhappy with how Lloyds dealt with her complaint and brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was assigned to an investigator 
who examined details provided by both parties. 
After a review, the investigator thought that Lloyds had provided poor customer service but 
couldnt find any evidence to support that Mrs S had been sworn at or shouted at. She 
thought the payment already made was appropriate and didnt recommend any changes to 
this. The investigator didnt think that Lloyds should have to refund the remaining 
transactions and noted a similar refund had been paid the previous year. The investigator 
couldnt determine a point of compromise to explain how the payments could have been 
made from Mrs Ss card and through her account with G.
Mrs S disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of her complaint.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. Having reviewed the evidence, it 
was noted that two different devices were using the same card details associated with Mrs 
Ss account from the same IP address. I asked Mrs S for her comments about this and she 
didnt offer any explanation apart from repeating her previous position that she wasnt 
responsible.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mrs S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs S authorised the 
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the cards details for online payments 
conclusively proves that those payments were authorised. 
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs S responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
The payments made from Mrs Ss account were made through her account with G. To do 
that, whoever made them would need access to the card details itself and the log in details 
for the account with G. Mrs S confirmed that she hadnt provided these to anyone else, so on 
the face of it , it seems unlikely that anyone else could have been responsible for them.
Lloyds also argued that IP address data linked the payments to Mrs S. This type of data is 
generated by any device that use internet-based services and can identify locations linked to 
the internet provider. Here, the data identifies a common IP address used by two different 
devices from what is likely to be Mrs Ss home address. What that means here is that those 
devices (phones) were using Mrs Ss debit card and account with G. 
Ive ruled out an unknown third party from being responsible because of the IP address data. 
It would be unlikely to be anyone who didnt have regular access to the home address that 
could have made these transactions.
Taken together with the assertion that no one else knew the details of the phone/the account 
details with G or access to the debit card, I think it more likely than not that Mrs S was 
responsible for the payments or someone else with her knowledge used the card to make 
the payments from her account with G. It follows that I also think it was reasonable for Lloyds 
to hold her liable for these transactions.
Service
Having listened to the calls between Mrs S and Lloyds, Its readily apparent that she suffered 
frustrations with Lloyds attempt to deal with her issue. Mrs S was passed from operator to 
operator and I agree with their own assessment that it was lacking and Mrs S shouldnt have 
been dealt with in such a confusing manner. I didnt hear any conversation that would 
support Mrs Ss complaint that she was swore at or dealt with in an inappropriate manner. I think Lloyds payment was reasonable and I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman