DRN-1800094
The complaint
Mr F complains about the settlement One Insurance Limited offered him for his van under 
his commercial motor insurance policy after it was stolen. He wants it to increase its offer. 
What happened
After Mr F reported his vans theft, One Insurance offered him £1,380 in settlement of his 
claim. This was increased to £2,948.50. But Mr F said he couldnt replace his van with a 
similar one for this amount. One Insurance then increased its offer to £3,669.75 less his 
policy excess. But Mr F said he needed a settlement of at least £4,000. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
settlement should be based on valuations provided by the motor trade guides we use. She 
checked these and found that the average of these, including VAT, was £4,594. So she 
thought One Insurance should pay Mr F this amount less his policy excess. And, as Mr F 
had been without his money for some time, she thought interest should be added to the 
difference between this amount and the interim payment that had been offered. 
One Insurance replied that it thought VAT shouldnt be included in the settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont 
provide valuations for vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
One Insurance had offered Mr F the average valuation provided by two of the trade guides 
we use. This came to £3,669.75. Ive looked to see how our investigator arrived at her 
recommendation. I can see that she checked the trade guides we use for vans of the same 
age, make, model, mileage and condition as Mr Fs at the date of loss. She discounted one 
valuation as it was much lower than the other two. I think this is in keeping with our 
approach.
One of the remaining two valuations differed to that found by One Insurance and it also 
included VAT. I cant see how One Insurance arrived at its valuation using this guide. So I 
think I can reasonably rely on the investigators figure as being more accurate.
One Insurance objected to VAT being added to the valuation. But our approach with 
commercial motor insurance policies, whether private or in a business name, is that it isnt 
fair to deduct VAT. The majority of commercial vehicles are sold with VAT added and Mr F 
isnt able to reclaim this. So I think, in order to restore his position, that its fair and 
reasonable for the valuation to include VAT. 
The average of the two valuations found by the investigator, including VAT, is £4,594. So I 
think this is a fair and reasonable valuation of Mr Fs van. 
Mr F rejected the interim settlement of £3,669.75 offered by One Insurance. Our investigator 
asked it to pay Mr F this amount after she reviewed the complaint. But One Insurance didnt 
reply despite repeated requests. I dont think thats fair or reasonable. One Insurance had 
already agreed to offer Mr F this amount. and I think withholding it has caused Mr F further 
hardship. I think it should reasonably compensate him for this. Ive asked One Insurance for 
its comments on this point, but it hasnt replied.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr F, I think One Insurance should:
1. Pay Mr F a settlement of £4,594 less his £250 policy excess, in settlement of his claim. 
2. Mr F has been without his money for some time, so I think One Insurance should add 
interest at 8% simple per annum to the difference between the correct valuation (£4,594) 
and its final offer (£3,669.75) from the date the offer was rejected (8 October 2019) until 
the date of settlement. 
3. And I think it should add interest at 8% simple per annum to the unfairly withheld interim 
payment (£3,669.75) from the date it was requested by the investigator to be paid (31 
March 2020) until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman