DRN-3676056
The complaint
Mr A, as an executor for the estate of Mrs A, complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) wont refund money he says was taken fraudulently from the late Mrs As 
account.
What happened
Mr A says that a family member (who Ill refer to as S) took advantage of the late Mrs A and 
drained money from her Halifax accounts. Mr A says the transactions started in 2019 and 
continued until Mrs A passed away in December 2020. 
In total, the estate is disputing approximately £95,000 in transactions. Mr A says that the late 
Mrs A mayve given S her card and PIN to use, but S had undue control over the late Mrs A 
and her finances.
Mr A raised a complaint with Halifax on behalf of the estate asking them to refund the 
disputed transactions. Halifax looked into the complaint but didnt agree to refund any of the 
transactions. Halifax addressed several points in their response to the estate including:
The estate queried a withdrawal for £6,000 made in September 2019, which was 
redeposited to the account with six cheques written out for £1,000 each instead. 
Halifaxs contact notes say the late Mrs A wanted to give her children £1,000 each 
so initially withdrew the funds. But was worried there was no way of telling where the 
money was going, so instead decided she wanted to use cheques.
All of the transactions made in branch were done by the late Mrs A either using her 
card and PIN or signing a withdrawal slip. The branch staff were asked for their 
recollections of the transactions and said the late Mrs A was known to staff, all of the 
in-branch transactions were made by the late Mrs A in person, although sometimes 
she was accompanied by a lady. The branch staff also commented that they didnt 
have any concerns at the time she was making the withdrawals and wouldve asked 
her about the purpose of the funds, although there are no notes of those 
discussions.
The transactions that werent done in branch were done using the late Mrs As 
genuine card and PIN. So, if the late Mrs A had given her card and PIN to S to use, 
the transactions were authorised and the late Mrs As estate wouldnt be entitled to a 
refund.
Mr A wasnt happy with Halifaxs response. So, on behalf of the estate of Mrs A, he brought 
a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that Halifax refund the 
transactions. The investigator explained they couldnt say Halifax had acted unfairly in 
allowing the withdrawals, as its most likely the late Mrs A authorised them either in person 
or by giving her card and PIN to someone to use with her consent.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion saying:
If the transactions were carried out by S, they werent in the best interests of the late 
Mrs A.
In January 2020, a family member was visiting the late Mrs A and asked about 
transactions on her bank statement and the late Mrs A wasnt aware of them.
The late Mrs A couldnt have done the transactions herself due to mobility issues.
The bank shouldve intervened. The ISA balance went from over £7,000 down to £0 
and her current account was reduced by nearly £90,000.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Generally, Halifax can hold the late Mrs A liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transactions herself. 
In this case its not in dispute that the late Mrs As genuine card and PIN were used for some 
of the transactions along with some cash withdrawals done in-branch with a signature. But 
the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough for Halifax to hold her 
liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that the late Mrs A 
consented to the transactions being made.
Did the late Mrs A authorise the transactions that are being disputed?
The evidence provided by Halifax shows that some of the transactions were done in-branch 
by Mrs A. The branch staff have provided testimony that the late Mrs A carried out these 
transactions herself, although sometimes she was accompanied by a lady. The branch staff 
say they didnt have any concerns based on the late Mrs A behaviour or their discussions 
with her. There arent any notes about what was specifically discussed although Halifax say 
they wouldve asked the purpose of the withdrawals. Based on the information and evidence 
that we have, I think its most likely that these in-branch transactions were completed by the 
late Mrs A and were authorised by her.
The transactions that werent made in branch, were made using the late Mrs As genuine 
card and her PIN. The estate believe that the late Mrs A gave her card and PIN to S to use. 
By giving her card and PIN to S, the late Mrs A is considered to have consented to these 
transactions. So, based on the information that I have Im satisfied that its more likely than 
not that the late Mrs A consented to and authorised all the transactions that the estate is 
disputing.
The estate raised a concern about S having undue control over the late Mrs A and her 
finances and whether these transactions were in the late Mrs As best interests.In this case it is difficult to know what the funds taken from the late Mrs As account were 
used for. We dont have testimony from S, who isnt a party to this complaint. We also dont 
have testimony from the late Mrs A. The estate has told us that S applied for and was 
granted Lasting Power of Attorney in relation to the late Mrs As affairs in October 2020  
although this wasnt registered with Halifax. Also, that S moved the late Mrs A out of an 
assisted living home into Ss home in November 2019, after the start of the transactions the 
estate are disputing.
With such limited information and testimony from the parties involved in making these 
transactions, its unclear what the funds were used for and its possible that the late Mrs A 
had benefit of some or all of the funds withdrawn. The estate say S had an extension added 
to her home and believe she used the late Mrs As money to cover the costs. This is 
possible. Its also possible that the late Mrs A mayve given S money to fund the extension. 
Im not satisfied that I can safely conclude that the late Mrs A was taken advantage of, or 
that money was taken from her account without her knowledge. Especially when a number 
of the transactions were completed by the late Mrs A when she attended the branch. And, I 
havent seen anything that suggests the branch were made aware of, or had any concerns 
about, the late Mrs A with regards to transactions on her account in branch.
Overall, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the late Mrs A authorised and 
consented to these transactions  either by completing the transactions herself or by giving 
her card and PIN to someone to use. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Halifax to refund them. 
Its also worth noting that by giving her card and PIN to someone to use, the late Mrs A 
breached the terms and conditions of her account by not keeping them secure. This would 
also allow Halifax to hold her liable for the transactions completed with the card and PIN, 
meaning I couldnt fairly recommend a refund.
The estate has raised a point regarding the pattern of the transactions, saying that Halifax 
shouldve intervened. However, even if I think Halifax shouldve had concerns about the 
pattern of usage on the account, the outcome of this case wouldnt change. The reason I say 
this is because if I said Halifax shouldve intervened, I would expect Halifax to contact the 
late Mrs A to discuss the transactions and to check that they were genuine. Based on the 
information I have: that the late Mrs A went into branch and completed a number of these 
transactions physically herself, and that she gave her card and PIN to S to use; I think its 
most likely that she wouldve confirmed the transactions as genuine.  
I appreciate the estate is going to be disappointed but based on the information I have I cant 
fairly ask Halifax to refund the transactions it is disputing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman