DRN-1702624
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr P says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why I think that below.
I think NatWest made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive been 
given a copy of the application form completed at the time and I can see that this included 
the option to take out the PPI. Mr P has ticked the box to confirm he wanted the cover. And 
Mr P has signed the application form which suggests he agreed with everything that had 
been input on the form. So I think its most likely that Mr P chose to take the cover and that 
he understood this was something he could had a choice about doing.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But he chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time it seems he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr P had 
good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr P told us that he had 
only modest savings to rely on. So, as this policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in 
that event, or if Mr P lost his job, I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr P off taking 
out the cover.
my final decision
Having considered the whole file and for the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ps 
complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman