DRN-3900434
The complaint
Mr T complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) handling of his claim and poor 
service, under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr T contacted BG to report an issue with his hot water system. It sent some engineers to 
investigate and carry out repairs. Mr T said that in September 2021, one of the engineers 
attended and left a tap on in his property. And because of his mobility issues, he didnt 
realise that the tap had been left on until a visitor to his home, discovered the running tap in 
October 2021. 
As a consequence of the tap having been left running, resulted in Mr T receiving a higher 
than normal water bill. Mr T believed that it was one of the BG engineers who had failed to 
ensure that all the taps were closed, during their visit. He believed this for two reasons. First, 
that he hadnt been in that part of his house for over two years. Second, the higher than 
normal water use coincided with when the BG engineers had attended his home. So, he 
asked BG to reimburse him around £900 for its engineers error. 
BG investigated Mr Ts complaint and said that there was no direct evidence, that could 
suggest that its engineers made the error of leaving a tap running. It said that any visitor to 
his home could have left the tap running. It provided Mr T with his referral rights and refused 
to contribute towards his water bill. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that Mr T believed that the running tap had been 
left on by one of the BG engineers. But that this assertion alone wasnt enough for him to 
safely conclude that BG had left the tap on and should contribute towards Mr Ts water bill. 
So, he wouldnt be asking BG to do anything further to resolve the complaint. 
BG accepted the view, Mr T did not. He said that although there was no evidence to show 
that it was the BG engineer who left the tap on, he knew it was the BG engineer. He based 
this on probability. The only evidence that he could provide was the higher than normal 
water bill. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr T, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Mr T contacted BG to make a claim regarding his hot water system. BG sent an engineer 
who carried out an annual service and repair. A further visit took place due to some 
plumbing issues, but the engineer was unable to access the loft area where the water tank 
was located. BG sent another engineer who accessed the loft but couldnt complete the 
repair as there was a wasp nest present. BG said that it advised Mr T to remove the wasp 
nest and then contact them to complete the repair. But it heard nothing further from Mr T, 
until he raised a complaint regarding his water bill. 
Mr T has provided evidence that his water bill that he received (that he said was usually 
around £100 for a six-month period) was extremely high (in excess of £1,000). He said that 
he believed that it was one of the BG engineers who attended and left a tap running. He also 
said that due to his vulnerabilities and mobility issues, he was unable to access the area of 
his home, in which the tap as left running. So, the tap was only discovered a few weeks later 
by a visitor to his home. 
BG said that there was no conclusive evidence that showed that it was one of its engineers 
who left the tap on. And because of this, it was unable to contribute to Mr Ts water bill. 
We provide an evidence-based service and our outcomes are based on the evidence 
presented by both parties, on the balance of probabilities. Whilst it isnt disputed that Mr T 
had a higher than usual water bill and that he is vulnerable with mobility issues, except his 
water bill and his testimony, there is no other evidence that Mr T has provided that supports 
his assertion.
While I understand Mr Ts strength of feeling that it was the BG engineer who left the tap on, 
he has also mentioned that visitors attend his home regularly and I think it is also possible 
that a visitor could have left the tap on by mistake. Because of this possibility, I cant 
reasonably conclude on the balance of probabilities (and in the absence of any further 
compelling evidence) that it was the BG engineer who left the tap running. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr T will be, Im not 
satisfied that there is enough evidence to show that BG left the tap running. Nor should it 
contribute towards Mr Ts water bill. Consequently, I cant reasonably ask BG to do anything 
more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman