DRN-4002129
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Scottish Widows Limited trading as 
Clerical Medical (Clerical Medical) when transferring the proceeds of his Personal Pension 
Plan (PPP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says Clerical Medicals actions 
caused him to suffer a financial loss, for which hed like to be compensated. 
What happened
Following his retirement, Mr S instructed his financial adviser to arrange the transfer of the 
proceeds of his PPP to a SIPP with a new provider Ill refer to as Provider A. The relevant 
paperwork was completed and forwarded to Provider A which submitted the transfer 
instruction to Clerical Medical via the electronic transfer system, Origo.
Having received the transfer request on 1 November 2021, Clerical Medical reviewed it and 
noted that Provider As bank details were missing. Unable to move forward without these, it 
took steps to gain them. 
Several weeks later, Mr S financial adviser contacted Clerical Medical for an update. 
Clerical Medical explained that it was still waiting for Provider As bank details. But having 
discussed the matter with Provider A directly, Mr S financial adviser was later able to 
confirm that Provider As details had been provided via Origo when the transfer request was 
originally made. 
Clerical Medical reviewed Mr S transfer request again and noted that a mistake had been 
made  Provider As bank details had been provided after all. Following this, Clerical Medical 
processed Mr S transfer and sent his funds to Provider A. It confirmed this to Mr S in writing 
on 23 December 2021, explaining that as it had everything it needed to process the transfer 
on 1 November 2021, this was the date used to determine the transfer value  £318,810.34 
 sent to Provider A, which also included £497.27 in interest for the delay in making the 
payment.
Shortly after the transfer, Mr S received an annual pension statement for the PPP hed 
transferred. It said that on 13 December 2021, his plan had been worth £324,040.29. As the 
figure quoted was £5,229.95 more than the amount transferred to Provider A, Mr S 
contacted Clerical Medical to complain. He said he shouldve received his transfer value as 
at the date Clerical Medical had the necessary documentation to complete the transfer, 
which appeared to be on or after 13 December 2021 and not 1 November 2021 as it had 
said. He added that he believed Clerical Medical had selected the November date at random 
and that its actions had caused him losses amounting to £5,229.95.
Clerical Medical responded to Mr S complaint and, in summary, said:
It acknowledged thered been a delay in transferring his pension, so it had arranged 
for £100 to be paid to Mr S account.
The amount it had transferred to Provider A was correct and reflected Mr S transfer 
value when its requirements had been met.
To ensure Mr S hadnt been financially disadvantaged by its delays, it asked Mr A to 
arrange for Provider A to provide certain information it needed to determine his true 
investment loss.
Mr S responded to Clerical Medical and disagreed, saying there was no evidence that it had 
everything necessary to transfer his pension on 1 November 2021. As his pension remained 
invested until 23 December 2021, he felt he should receive the transfer value on this date.
Further correspondence was exchanged between Clerical Medical and Mr S but as Mr S 
remained unhappy, he referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
considered the matter and, in summary, concluded that the date Clerical Medical had used 
to determine Mr S transfer value, and therefore, the amount sent to Provider A, was correct. 
Overall, he thought the compensation Clerical Medical had paid for what happened and the 
way it intended to ensure Mr S was compensated for any investment losses sustained was 
fair.
Mr S disagreed. In short, he said he thought Clerical Medical had effectively pocketed the 
£5,229.95 difference in his transfer value on 1 November 2021 and his fund value on 23 
December 2021 and considered this to be the financial loss hed suffered. Mr S provided a 
copy of a decision issued by our service which he felt supported his position. He maintained 
that Clerical Medical hadnt treated him fairly.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should 
emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive limited 
my response to the issue I consider to be central to this complaint. Thats to say:
Whether, based on delays it caused, Clerical Medical has taken appropriate steps to 
put matters right and compensate Mr S for any financial losses hes sustained.
Its accepted by the parties in this case that the transfer of Mr S PPP to a new SIPP was 
delayed. Electronic transfers, using real-time software packages like Origo, allow transfers to 
take place without the need for paperwork to be exchanged. Providers can submit and 
respond to requests via the Origo platform, meaning the transfer process is faster and more 
streamlined, often being completed in days and weeks, as opposed to months.
Ive seen evidence showing that Clerical Medical received Provider As request for the 
transfer of Mr S PPP on 1 November 2021. But as Mr S will be aware, his funds werent 
transferred until 23 December 2021, over a month later. Clearly, the transfer shouldnt have 
taken this long.
Under normal circumstances, having received the transfer request (which would 
automatically include Provider As bank details), a copy would be uploaded to Mr S file for 
processing. However, on this occasion, the version of the request uploaded to Mr S file  of 
which Ive seen a copy  was missing Provider As bank details. Unfortunately, this meant 
that staff responsible for administering the transfer were mistakenly under the impression 
that the necessary bank details hadnt been given, and therefore, the transfer couldnt 
proceed. It took some time for this to be discovered, which unfortunately resulted in delays 
with the transfer.The Policy Provisions applicable to Mr S PPP state that a member can, on giving notice, 
request the cancellation of units allocated to their PPP to realise the value of their 
investments, in order for the arising transfer payment to be made to another provider. The 
Provisions go on to say that where a transfer request is received and accepted, Clerical 
Medical will cancel all units allocated to the PPP and value them at the prices applicable 
when the request is made. In Mr S case this was on 1 November 2021. Accordingly, and 
notwithstanding the delay it later caused, Clerical Medical settled Mr S PPP based on the 
unit prices from that day. Based on this, Im satisfied that Clerical Medical settled Mr S PPP 
correctly and in accordance with the relevant policy provisions. Its worth noting that Clerical 
Medicals approach is in line with how most pension providers determine policy holders 
transfer values and I consider it to be fair and reasonable.
When Mr S arranged for his transfer instruction to be submitted to Clerical Medical, he did so 
under the reasonable expectation that the instruction would be actioned in a timely fashion, 
providing all requirements were met. The fact that Clerical Medical, as a result of its own 
mistakes, caused avoidable delays, meaning Mr S instruction wasnt processed when it 
shouldve been, didnt alter his original instruction or intention  i.e., to cancel all units under 
his PPP on the day the instruction was received and transfer the proceeds to Provider A. 
Because of this, Clerical Medical remained obligated to settle and transfer Mr S PPP as if 
nothing had gone wrong.
In circumstances such as these, our service would expect Clerical Medical to put Mr S, as 
far as possible, in the position he would now be in but for its mistakes. Amongst other things, 
which Ill cover later on, this meant determining what Mr S transfer value was on 1 
November 2021 and transferring the appropriate amount to Provider A. 
I understand that following the transfer, Mr S received two pieces of correspondence from 
Clerical Medical which he happened to open on the same day. The first, dated 23 December 
2021 confirmed Mr S PPP had been transferred based on his transfer value (£318,810.34) 
on 1 November 2021. The second was an annual statement for Mr S PPP and this stated 
that, on 13 December 2021, the PPP was worth £324,040.29. Given how much the two 
figures quoted differed, I can appreciate that this news wouldve come as a shock to Mr S. 
He believed the value of his PPP had grown while his transfer had been delayed and that 
the amount Clerical Medical had transferred to Provider A, hadnt included this when it 
shouldve. I can appreciate Mr S thinking here, but Im afraid I dont agree.
The fact that the value of Mr S PPP happened to increase during the delay period doesnt 
alter my view that, in line with its normal procedures, Clerical Medical was obligated to settle 
Mr S PPP and transfer the proceeds to Provider A based on when it received and was able 
to action the transfer request. The relevant date here is 1 November 2021 and its the 
transfer value of Mr S PPP on this date that hes entitled to. To be clear, if the 
circumstances were different and the value of Mr S PPP had decreased during the delay 
period, Clerical Medical would still have had to pay the higher value as at 1 November 2021 
and not the lower value when the PPP eventually settled. 
Ive read the final decision Mr S has referred to in support of his complaint. It concerns the 
encashment of an investment bond, while Mr S complaint relates to investment loss 
sustained on a pension fund value over a period where the funds were ultimately intended to 
be reinvested with a new provider. I accept that, broadly speaking, there may be some 
parallels with Mr S complaint, however, as Mr S may be aware, each case brought to our 
service is decided on its own merits, based on the circumstances and evidence unique to 
each complaint. And having carefully considered the facts in this case, Im unable to agree 
that Clerical Medical should compensate Mr S in the way hes seeking.
From what Ive seen, while Mr S PPP was with Clerical Medical it looks like he may have been invested in a pooled investment fund. If this was the case, I dont think it would be right 
to say that Clerical Medical was profiting from Mr S delayed transfer. As I understand it, it 
would be the pooled investment fund that would receive any gains or losses based on the 
way Clerical Medical settles investors transfers requests. But even if this isnt the case, Ive 
seen nothing to indicate that the way Clerical Medical settled Mr S transfer was incorrect or 
a deliberate attempt to withhold funds Mr S is entitled to.
Its unfortunate that Mr S expectations were raised by the statement that was automatically 
issued around the same time the transfer was being processed. But I havent seen anything 
that makes me think the fund value quoted was guaranteed and that he was entitled to 
receive it. 
Its clear to me that Mr S is aggrieved by what happened with his transfer, and I can 
understand his frustration and disappointment. While I havent found in his favour, in that I 
dont think Clerical Medical should be bound to pay him the difference between the fund 
value quoted in his annual statement and his 1 November 2021 transfer value, I should say 
that I do think its entirely reasonable for him to have expected Clerical Medical to act with 
more efficiency and attention in the circumstances. And its unfortunate that in this case that 
didnt happen. Im genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that this has had on Mr B, especially 
at a time when I understand he was trying to resolve his pension matters.
In recognition of the delay it caused, Clerical Medical calculated the level of interest Mr S 
was due and applied this to his transfer value when the payment was sent to Provider A. 
And further to his complaint, Clerical Medical has also paid Mr S £100 for the inconvenience 
of the delay it caused. This is in line with what Id expect to see in the circumstances, so I 
wont be directing Clerical Medical to increase the amount. 
To ensure Mr S is fully compensated for any investment loss hes suffered because of its 
delays, Clerical Medical has offered to establish the position Mr S would now be in if it had 
transferred his PPP to Provider A on 1 November 2021, and Provider A had invested those 
funds on 15 November 2021. The period between these two dates allows five working days 
for the settlement to have been processed following receipt of the transfer request and five 
further days for the transfer payment, via BACS, to reach Provider A and become available 
for investment. If Mr S is found to have suffered an investment loss, Clerical Medical will pay 
the required amount to correct this. To carry out this calculation, Clerical Medical has asked 
Mr S to arrange for Provider A to provide it with specific information, as outlined in its 19 
January and 3 March 2022 responses to Mr S complaint.
Im satisfied that the way Clerical Medical has offered to calculate any further compensation 
Mr S is due is fair and reasonable, so I wont be directing it to do anything further. Clerical 
Medicals offer remains open, and I would encourage Mr S to engage with it so the 
calculation can be carried out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. I leave it to Mr S
to decide whether he would now like to accept Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical 
Medicals offer to calculate any investment loss.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman