DRN-3193415
The complaint
Mr M complains about TSB Bank Plcs (TSBs) handling of a claim he made to them under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators view.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr M raised a section 75 claim with TSB in November 2020 and complained about delays in 
their response in December 2020.
TSB issued their final response on that matter at the end of December 2020. They accepted 
that they should have acknowledged Mr Ms email of 24 November 2020 and apologised that 
hed had to chase them for a response in December of that year. They offered to pay him 
£30 in respect of the upset that had caused.
Having looked at the delays in handling the dispute I dont think I have sufficient evidence to 
suggest TSB need to take any further action. Therere no time limits for the completion of 
section 75 claims as business often have to collect a lot of information from both sides. I can 
see that TSB asked for that information from Mr M a couple of days after he raised his 
section 75 claim. They couldnt open the links that Mr M sent, and this delayed matters a 
little and in January 2021 they needed to ask for information about any warranty claim that 
Mr M had made. The links that Mr M sent in response couldnt, again, be opened for security 
reasons. I dont think the information Mr M supplied to TSB clearly evidenced the loss Mr M 
had incurred or whether any warranty claim had been made. Ive seen evidence from TSB 
that they therefore attempted to contact the garage for that evidence and were still waiting 
for a response in June 2021.  
I dont think theres evidence of excessive delays and some delays had clearly occurred 
because information wasnt sent or wasnt accessible. Im therefore not asking TSB to take 
any further action.
Mr M is disappointed that the investigator didnt consider the merits of his section 75 claim. 
Ive read the investigators comments and can see that she explained that she didnt have 
evidence of Mr M disagreeing with TSBs section 75 decision and that hed need to address 
any complaint about that decision to TSB in the first instance. Id agree with the 
investigators opinion. 
I can also see that the investigator explained to Mr M that she hadnt been advised of TSBs 
decision, but if they had rejected Mr Ms claim he would have referral rights to bring that new 
complaint to this service. I think the investigator has set that out correctly and Mr M retains 
that option should he be upset with the decision TSB have made, or will make, on his section 
75 claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman