DRN-3370420
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) handled his claim under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
All references to IPA include agents acting on its behalf. Mr G is represented in this 
complaint by his daughter. His wife and son-in-law were also party to the events giving rise 
to this complaint. But, for ease, Ill refer to Mr G throughout.
What happened
Mr G has a glazing, locks, roof and pest insurance policy which is underwritten by IPA. He 
contacted IPA in October 2020 to report a wasp nest in his loft. An engineer arrived the next 
day and found a wasp nest above the water tank. They couldnt get into the loft because of 
the busy activity of the wasps so used a wasp destroyer to resolve the issue. A couple of 
weeks later, Mr G contacted IPA again to say the nest was still there and getting bigger. An 
engineer attended but couldnt see any signs of activity and said the nest was dead. Mr G 
contacted IPA again in early November to say the wasps were still active. The engineer who 
attended broke the nest apart and dusted it to control the activity. 
In late January 2021 Mr G told IPA he had dead wasps coming out of his bath taps and the 
toilet. His water system was blocked, and two toilets and a shower werent working properly. 
He said the engineer who last attended had knocked part of the wasp nest into the water 
tank. An engineer attended the next day and confirmed the nest had deteriorated. They said 
there were some wasps and nest debris in the water tank but couldnt confirm if the previous 
engineer had caused the nest to fall into the tank. Mr G complained and said he wanted IPA 
to reimburse him for the £518 hed paid a third-party engineer to drain and clean out the 
water tank and system. 
IPA said there was no evidence the engineer who attended in November 2020 had knocked 
the wasp nest into the water tank. It noted that Mr G hadnt reported the incident until two 
months afterwards even though hed said wasps and debris had been coming through the 
system since November. IPA thought it more likely the debris from the nest and dead wasps 
would have happened more recently and was a result of Mr G not covering the water tank 
after the engineers left. It said his policy covered him for killing the wasps but not the 
removal of the nest. And it was Mr Gs responsibility to cover the water tank whilst the nest 
was being destroyed. Mr G remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought it most likely the wasp nest debris got into the water tank after the 
engineers visit in November. And as his policy only covered Mr G for the treatment of the 
nest and not its removal, he thought there was a responsibility on Mr G to have taken steps 
to minimise the impact of the deteriorating wasp nest at that stage. But he thought the 
engineer did cause part of the nest to fall into the water tank and asked IPA to pay Mr G 
£100 for the distress caused to Mr G by that incident.
IPA accepted the investigators view, but Mr G didnt agree as he thought IPA should do 
more. In summary, his reasons were as follows:
IPA had a duty of care to put adequate protection over the water tank whilst working.
Given their knowledge the engineers should have known what was likely to happen.
IPAs engineers werent well-equipped for the job.
Hed expressed concern about the uncovered water tank on each occasion IPA 
attended.
Hed witnessed the engineer knocking part of the wasp nest into the water tank.
He was 89 years old at the time of the incident and wasnt able to go into the loft 
himself.
He hadnt contacted IPA until January 2021 because he thought the damage would 
be short lived and hed respected IPAs messages that it was only dealing with 
emergencies at the time, due to the third Covid-19 lockdown.
He believed the contamination of the water system started after the first visit and had 
gradually built up over the next few months until it became apparent in January 2021.
As Mr G didnt accept the investigators view the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision. I came to a different conclusion from that reached by the investigator and so sent a 
provisional decision to Mr G and IPA to give them an opportunity to comment. IPA agreed to 
my decision while Mr G didnt reply. So, my findings and decision below are substantially the 
same as set out in my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that wasps and wasp nest debris got into Mr Gs water tank and thus into 
the water system. That eventually clogged up the system and Mr G had to pay £518 to a 
third-party engineer to clean it out. The question here is how and when the wasps got into 
the water tank and who should take responsibility for the consequences. 
There are some discrepancies in the evidence Ive seen. So, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr Gs account of events is broadly consistent with the notes provided by the engineers who 
attended. But there are one or two inconsistencies. For example, the engineer reports say 
there was no wasp activity when they attended on the second occasion. While Mr G said the 
nest was still active after the first and second visits. And although the engineers notes of the 
third visit make no mention of the nest being knocked into the water tank, Mr G said he 
witnessed that happening. 
On balance, Im more persuaded by Mr Gs account of events. That account is consistent 
throughout, hes outlined his version of events in some detail and its supported by the 
circumstances at the time. The notes from the engineers who visited the property are factual 
and provide less detail about what was said and done. So, Im satisfied Mr G believed there 
was wasp activity after the first engineer attended and his decision to contact IPA again 
would support that. Im also persuaded he told the engineers each time they attended that 
he was concerned about the wasps falling into the water tank. And that he saw the engineer 
knocking part of the wasp nest into the water tank when they attended in November 2020.  
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs insurance policy says that it covers him for the treatment 
or removal of a pest infestation involving wasps, bees, hornets nests or cockroaches where 
the infestation is within the home. The terms also say that the removal of the wasp nest once 
treated is not covered under the policy. So, what does this all mean for this complaint?IPA are responsible for the treatment of Mr Gs wasp nest and, in this case, that meant killing 
the wasps. His policy makes it clear hes not covered for the removal of the nest once 
treated. But I dont think there was ever a suggestion that the wasp nest would be removed. 
IPAs approach was to kill the wasps and let the wasp nest disintegrate. Ive not seen any 
evidence to indicate the engineers were thinking of removing the nest from the loft. So, I 
dont think it was fair for IPA to use that part of his policy to justify its decision not to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint.
IPAs approach to treating the wasp nest seems reasonable. I would imagine it would be 
difficult to remove a wasp nest once its become inactive and waiting for it to disintegrate 
over time would seem to me to be a fair way to resolve the issue. But I also think it would be 
reasonable to expect IPA to take necessary precautions when treating the wasp nest using 
this approach. Mr G says he told each engineer who attended that the water tank wasnt fully 
covered and expressed concern about wasps getting in there. As such, I think IPA had a 
responsibility to protect that water tank before they started treating the wasp nest. The first 
engineer said he advised Mr G of the possibility that the nest would fall down over time as it 
would naturally disintegrate. But, on balance, I dont think that advice was sufficient, in light 
of the fact there was a possibility it would fall into the water tank and knowing that the water 
tank wasnt fully covered. 
IPA said Mr G was responsible for covering the water tank once the nest was destroyed. But 
I havent seen any evidence the engineer told Mr G hed need to do that before they started 
to treat the wasps. And I think its reasonable to have expected them to do that. Mr G was 
also 89 years of age at the time and so would have found it very difficult to get into the loft to 
cover the tank properly. So, I think that was an additional factor to consider. Taken together, 
I dont think IPA did enough to avoid wasps falling into the water tank. 
IPA said there was no evidence the engineer who attended on the third occasion knocked 
part of the wasp nest into the water tank. But Mr G says he witnessed it and, as Ive said 
above, Im persuaded by his account. So, I think IPA need to take responsibility for the 
engineers actions. And its worth noting that this wouldnt have been a problem had IPA 
taken the necessary precautions to cover the water tank when they first attended.
IPA also said Mr G didnt tell them about the problem with his water system until 
January 2021. And thought this indicated the wasp nest had fallen into the tank more 
recently and most likely as part of the planned disintegration process rather than by the 
engineer knocking it in. But I think Mr G has given sound reasons for not approaching IPA 
sooner. He understood that engineers were only attending emergency situations during the 
third Covid lockdown and he didnt see his issue as being an emergency until the system 
started to clog up and his toilet and shower stopped working. But I think this is a moot point 
anyway. As Ive said, Im satisfied the engineer did knock part of the wasp nest into the 
water tank and also that the engineers should have taken precautions to cover the tank. So, 
IPA should take responsibility for those actions.
Putting things right
Mr G paid £518 for a third-party engineer to drain and clean out the water tank and water 
system. Ive seen evidence of that payment and Im satisfied that was a fair amount to pay 
for the work to be done. In light of my findings above, I think IPA should pay Mr G £518 to 
reimburse him for the amount he paid the third party.
I also think IPA should pay Mr G an amount for the trouble and upset caused by the issues 
Ive outlined above. Had IPA taken reasonable precautions to cover the water tank when 
they first attended, wasps and wasp nest debris wouldnt have entered his water system and 
been present in his toilets and bathrooms. That must have been an unpleasant experience. He also had to arrange for a third party to rectify matters when that shouldnt have been 
necessary. I think an amount of £200 would be a fair way for IPA to recognise this impact.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to pay him the following:
£518 to reimburse him for the cost of draining and cleaning his water system. Plus 
8% simple interest from the date he paid the third-party engineer to the date it makes 
payment1.
£200 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman
1 If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.