DRN-3216677
The complaint
Mr T complains about the way PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA dealt with a claim he made 
in relation to goods he bought from a third party using PayPal Credit.
What happened
Mr T bought a wooden self-assembly climbing frame online from a trader, W. He paid 
£1,369.95 for the item using running-account credit PayPal provided to him. The assembly 
instructions from W recommended securing the frame in concrete. Mr T paid another 
company £500 for the groundwork involved.
Unfortunately Mr T was unable to make use of the climbing frame. When he attempted to 
assemble it, a lot of the wood was warped, discoloured and damaged. Replacement parts W 
sent to Mr T had similar problems. W offered Mr T a partial refund, which he rejected, 
referring matters to PayPal.
Mr T says he found it difficult to discuss the situation with PayPal as it wouldnt adapt its 
correspondence channels despite his individual communication needs. And hes unhappy 
with PayPals response, which found in his favour but told him that, in line with its Buyer 
Protection Policy, before he could be refunded hed have to arrange to return the item to W 
at his own cost. Mr T also noted some of the parts had already been set in concrete and the 
difficulty this would present in returning the goods.
Mr T proposed an alternative resolution, by which he would accept a partial refund and make 
best use of the wood he was able to work with. PayPal rejected Mr Ts proposal, and he 
referred matters to us, as he was unhappy at what he saw to be a failure to uphold his rights 
as a consumer and as a person with particular communication needs.
Our initial assessment
Our investigator noted that because Mr T had used PayPal Credit to fund his purchase, he 
had a right to claim directly against PayPal under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA), in addition to PayPals own Buyer Protection Policy. PayPal told us it had 
considered section 75 when it decided Mr Ts claim, though the investigator found its final 
response letter was silent on its conclusions in this respect.
The investigator was satisfied that under the connected lender liability provisions of section 
75, Mr T was able to make a claim that the climbing frame wasnt of satisfactory quality as 
implied into the purchase contract by the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). PayPal had 
already acknowledged the poor quality of the goods and found in Mr Ts favour in this 
respect.
The investigator further concluded that Mr T was entitled to a full refund under the CRA, 
which also provides that any reasonable costs of returning goods should not be borne by the 
consumer. He also felt Mr T would be able to claim for losses incurred due to the breach, 
which included the costs Mr T had in the preparatory groundwork as well as those he was 
likely to face in restoring his garden to its original condition. Mr T provided a quote indicating 
a likely cost of £800 for this further work.
In respect of the difficulties Mr T experienced in corresponding with PayPal, the investigator 
felt it could have acted more promptly to assist Mr T and accommodate his personal 
communication needs. He recommended PayPal pay £100 compensation for this.
PayPal didnt agree with the investigators proposals and asked for this review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to the investigators assessment, PayPal hasnt offered any specific comment 
on any aspect with which it disagrees. It said its position was set out in its previous 
submissions. Ive reviewed those submissions carefully. At no point did PayPal set out its 
position regarding section 75 liability other than to say it had taken it into consideration. 
Based on the evidence available to me, Mr Ts transaction meets the requirements set out in 
section 75. Section 75 has the effect that where there has been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, Mr T has the same claim against PayPal as he does 
against W.
As has already been noted, the CRA implies into a contract for goods certain terms relating 
to  among other things  satisfactory quality. The photographs and testimony Mr T supplied 
(and the response from both W and PayPal) suggests that the required standard wasnt met. 
None of the submissions from either party leads me to reach a different conclusion on this 
point. It follows that Im satisfied Mr T has demonstrated breach of contract and has a valid 
claim against PayPal.
W attempted to remedy this breach by replacing damaged parts, but this proved ineffective. 
Mr T suggested a remedy available to him under the CRA; that is, a price reduction. I 
understand PayPal objected to this proposal on the basis it would have amounted to Mr T 
receiving a full refund (taking into account Ws previous reimbursement offer).
What Mr T suggested doesnt strike me as an entirely unreasonable proposal; after all, 
section 24(2) of the CRA includes the possibility that a price reduction might, where 
appropriate, be the full amount of the price. Although it would mean Mr T would have the 
benefit of goods at effectively no charge, the condition of those goods as supplied to him 
appear to have been of minimal value other than any use Mr T could himself make of them.
As such, had PayPal agreed to that suggestion, I might have considered it a reasonable way 
to resolve the complaint. But it did not, and that leaves Mr T with a final right to reject the 
goods, and/or to seek alternative remedies available to him under section 19 of the CRA, 
including claiming damages.
Mr T has sought to exercise that right of rejection. Im satisfied hes entitled to do so, and 
that he should receive a full refund (less any amount he might already have received from 
W). I dont consider the circumstances in this case suggest that it would be reasonable to 
make a deduction in respect of those parts Mr T is unable to return in their original condition. 
They have no material value other than as part of the whole frame, which as already 
acknowledged, was not of satisfactory quality.
As the investigator noted the CRA says that where the right to reject goods is exercised, its 
the trader  not the consumer  that must bear any reasonable costs of returning them. While PayPals Buyer Protection Policy makes different provisions, where the CRA applies 
(as it does here) it is the legislation that takes precedence. That means that, having due 
regard for its section 75 liability, it was unreasonable for PayPal to make a refund contingent 
on Mr T returning the goods at his own cost.
To address this aspect, PayPal should either make suitable and prompt arrangements to 
collect the materials from Mr T and bear any reasonable cost of doing so. Alternatively, if 
PayPal decides it doesnt want the goods it should make this clear to Mr T and also confirm 
that he can dispose or make use of the items as he sees fit.
I now turn to the additional costs Mr T is claiming in respect of the groundwork  both in 
preparation and in making good after the frame is removed. I see no reason why he would 
be unable to make a claim in damages for those costs. They are directly connected to the 
nature of the breach.
Ws instructions include a guide to the preparatory work necessary for installation, which Mr 
T had to pay for. As the frame couldnt be constructed due to the breach, it follows that this 
cost represents a £500 loss to Mr T.
Similarly, if Mr T now faces further cost in restoring his garden to its original condition, it 
seems reasonable that the cost of doing so is borne by the breaching party. In this case, 
thats PayPal. Mr T has provided a quote for this work indicating he faces paying a further 
£800. So taking these aspects into account, I find that PayPal should cover both of these 
connected costs as well.
I accept Mr T has had difficulty in correspondence with PayPal. He has personal 
communication needs that he informed PayPal about. Noting those needs I consider PayPal 
ought to have done more in terms of making reasonable adjustments to the way it engaged 
with him in relation to this dispute. This was clearly a source of some upset to Mr T and I 
think its appropriate that PayPal pays him compensation for that. I share our investigators 
opinion that £100 represents a fair sum in this respect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out here my final decision is that to settle Mr Ts complaint, PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA should, within 28 days of Mr Ts acceptance, take the following 
steps:
1. rework Mr Ts account removing the £1,369.95 from the purchase date (less any 
refunds PayPal can show he has already have received from W)
2. If PayPal charged any interest or fees to Mr Ts account in relation to the purchase, 
these should be refunded. If this results in a balance owed to Mr T, this surplus 
should be added to the sum in 1.
3. pay Mr T interest on the sum in 1. (including any surplus arising from the calculation 
in 2.) at 8% simple per year. This should be calculated from the date of the original 
transaction until the date it pays this settlement. If PayPal deducts tax from the 
interest element of my award, it should confirm to Mr T that it has done so and 
provide him with the relevant tax deduction certificate
4. pay Mr T £1,300 representing the associated costs hes incurred in preparatory 
groundwork and in restoring the condition of his garden
5. pay Mr T £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he experienced from the way it corresponded with him
6. Note Mr Ts preferred communication method in its records and ensure its future 
correspondence with him takes account of any reasonable adjustments he might tell 
it he requires
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman