DRN-3447046
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy AWP P&C SA turned down a claim she made on her travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mrs L took out a travel insurance policy over the telephone to cover her trip abroad in 2020. 
The policy was underwritten by AWP P&C SA (AWP).  The policy didnt provide protection 
for pre-existing medical conditions, unless AWP had agreed to cover them. 
Mrs L said when the policy was taken out, she went through medical screening. She 
disclosed she suffered from an autoimmune disease which makes her more susceptible to 
infections. This condition was accepted by AWPs medical screening team and the policy 
was set up.
Whilst abroad, Mrs L suffered swelling and a rash on her leg. She was taken to the local 
hospital where she was diagnosed with a skin infection and prescribed antibiotics. She 
stayed in overnight and was taken by helicopter to the nearest main hospital the next day. 
Mrs L said her doctors contacted AWP the night before the transfer and AWP said the 
hospital and transportation costs would be covered. 
At the second hospital Mrs L was prescribed further antibiotics and kept in overnight. The 
doctors concluded she had been bitten by an insect which had caused the skin infection. Mrs 
L was discharged the following day. 
Mrs L paid for the air transfer and the hospital invoice before she returned home. She sent 
all her paperwork over to AWP and submitted a claim to cover the costs shed incurred.  
AWP declined the claim. It said Mrs L hadnt disclosed when she took the policy out that 
shed suffered from the same skin infection (cellulitis) before and received treatment for it in 
the past. AWP said Mrs Ls policy didnt cover claims which were linked to a policyholders 
pre-existing medical conditions, unless it had agreed to cover them. As AWP hadnt agreed 
cover for this specific skin condition, it said Mrs Ls claim was excluded under the policy 
terms for pre-existing conditions. 
Mrs L said being prone to skin infections was part of the autoimmune disease she had 
already disclosed, so she thought it was unfair for AWP to exclude it as a separate pre-
existing condition.  
Mrs L referred the matter to our service. Despite our requests, AWP didnt send us a copy of 
its complaint file. Mrs L was able to provide us with a copy of the policy document and the 
documents shed provided to AWP as part of her claim. 
Our investigator said Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld because AWP hadnt provided any 
information about the questions that were put to Mrs L when the policy was purchased. And 
it hadnt provided any evidence to refute Mrs Ls testimony about the skin infection not being 
a separate condition. So he didnt think it was fair AWP had relied on the exclusion for pre-
existing conditions. 
He recommended AWP should pay the claim with interest. AWP didnt respond to our 
assessment. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any information from AWP, Im unable to say AWP have acted fairly and Ill 
explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
Exclusion in the policy terms for pre-existing conditions 
Mrs Ls policy had an exclusion for any pre-existing conditions, unless AWP had agreed to 
cover them. This exclusion is prominent throughout the policy documentation. 
Although AWP had agreed to cover Mrs Ls autoimmune disease, it says it hadnt agreed 
any cover for cellulitis because it wasnt aware shed previously suffered from it. So AWP 
said, under the terms of the policy, Mrs Ls claim for cellulitis when she was abroad wasnt 
covered. 
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. In this case, Im satisfied Mrs L did incur medical expenses due to an illness 
while she was abroad. If AWP then relies on an exclusion to turn down the claim, the burden 
of proof shifts and its for AWP to show the exclusion applies. 
However, in this case I dont think it was right for AWP to rely on an exclusion on the policy 
when Mrs L had been through medical screening. 
Medical screening and misrepresentation 
Mrs L went through medical screening with AWP before taking the policy out. She disclosed 
her pre-existing autoimmune disease and AWP agreed to cover her for it. But AWP said she 
shouldve also disclosed the treatment shed received previously for cellulitis. 
As medical screening took place, its important I make clear that I think the provisions of the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act (CIDRA) apply to this case. 
That means my role is to decide if Mrs L took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when the policy was sold. 
Its for AWP to prove it asked Mrs L a clear question and she didnt take reasonable care to 
answer. AWP would then also need to show it would have offered the policy on different 
terms (or not at all) if Mrs L had disclosed her previous cellulitis treatment. But in this case, 
AWP have been unable to show this, because they havent provided any information in this 
regard. 
So Im unable to say AWP has treated Mrs L fairly by just turning down her claim. Summary 
Based on the above, I dont think AWP have correctly applied the exclusion for pre-existing 
conditions, so it was unfair to turn down Mrs Ls claim on that basis. And AWP havent 
provided any information to show Mrs L made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA 
when she disclosed her health conditions.  
So, in the circumstances its not fair for AWP to decline cover on the basis it wasnt aware 
Mrs L had previous treatment for a skin infection on her leg.  
Putting things right
Mrs L has provided evidence of the hospital and transportation costs she is claiming for. So I 
think AWP P&C SA needs to put things right by: 
Paying Mrs Ls claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions 
Adding 8% from the date the claim was first raised to the date of settlement 
My final decision
Im upholding this complaint against AWP P&C SA and direct them to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman