DRN-4523143
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her home 
insurance claim.
Haven is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Haven has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Haven includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs S made a claim under her home insurance policy with Haven after 
an escape of water caused significant damage to her property.
 
Mrs S told Haven that her property wasnt habitable, and she was concerned about the 
health of her children. Haven told Mrs S that it wasnt able to authorise alternative 
accommodation, but it could look to reimburse hotel costs if her claim was accepted.
Mrs S and her family stayed with her parents for about a week before moving into a short-
term let for a couple of weeks. They then moved back into their own property because 
alternative accommodation costs hadnt been approved.
Haven arranged for its agents to source alternative accommodation for Mrs S, but they didnt 
find anything suitable nearby. Mrs S later found out that Haven was trying to find properties 
that would house her dogs. However, she says shed never requested that her pets be 
housed with her. As a result, Mrs S and her family had to stay in a hotel for around a month. 
Mrs S managed to source a six-month let on a property herself. She says Haven advised her 
to offer an upfront six month rental payment to secure the property and she would be 
reimbursed without delay. However, Mrs S wasnt reimbursed for around a month. She says 
she had to borrow money from family, and it placed her in financial difficulty.
Mrs S raised a complaint with Haven about poor communication and delays. She said she 
hadnt been offered reimbursement for many of her financial costs including additional travel, 
food and a lost day of wages. She was also unhappy with a delay in dealing with her subject 
access request.
Haven sent Mrs S two final response letters on the same date. Haven acknowledged its 
communication with Mrs S had been poor. It said there was an initial delay due to the time of 
year which meant its adjusting team had limited availability and the visit had to be postponed 
due to illness. This was followed by a delay in the underwriter confirming liability. 
Haven acknowledged that the time taken to source appropriate accommodation was not 
within expectations. It said this was due to incorrect instructions being provided to the agent 
responsible for sourcing the accommodation. This meant that a number of properties were 
set aside due to pets not being allowed. In addition to this, advertised properties Havens 
agent had enquired about had already been taken off the market or were only available as 
12 month rentals.
Haven apologised for a delay in reimbursing Mrs S for her alternative accommodation 
payment. It also acknowledged poor communication in the handling of her complaints and a 
delay in dealing with her subject access request.
Haven offered Mrs S £500 compensation in one letter and £200 in the other.
Mrs S didnt think Havens offer was enough to cover her financial loss and the 
inconvenience and distress shed experienced. So, she asked our service to consider the 
matter. She also made us aware of some further concerns she had about Havens handling 
of her claim. 
Our investigator thought Mrs Ss claim should be upheld. She recommended Haven pay   
Mrs S £2,070 for costs shed incurred from 14 January to 24 March 2023. She thought 
Haven should pay Mrs S the amount agreed to replace a fridge that had been damaged by 
its contractors, without requiring an invoice. 
Our investigator didnt think the £700 Haven had offered to pay Mrs S for distress and 
inconvenience was sufficient. She recommended it be increased to £1,000.
Haven disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said its contractors had offered to pay 
for the fridge and then pay for VAT upon receipt of an invoice, but Mrs S had rejected this 
and said shed take it up with the Financial Ombudsman Service. It said it would be happy to 
pay for this if Mrs S could produce an invoice.
Haven said it was unclear about why it was being asked to pay a disturbance allowance 
when Mrs S was in an apartment. It said shed been extremely vague around dates, so it 
wasnt in a position to agree anything.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 December 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mrs Ss complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Alternative accommodation
The policys terms and conditions say:
Alternative accommodation and loss of rent.
If Your Home is not fit to be lived in as a result of any occurrence covered under this policy, 
We will pay for:
1. Up to a maximum of 20% of the Buildings sum insured but subject to a maximum of 
£25,000 in any one Period of Insurance, for alternative accommodation for You, Your 
family and Your pets;
I understand that Haven has reimbursed Mrs S for alternative accommodation costs up until 
September 2023. However, Mrs S says it hasnt reimbursed her for additional costs she 
incurred, such as travel expenses and food costs.
Our investigator recommended Haven pay Mrs S £2,070 for costs shed incurred from 14 
January to 24 March 2023. However, Haven has queried this amount.Its good industry practice for an insurer to cover reasonable additional costs a consumer 
has incurred whilst in alternative accommodation for things like extra food expenses, laundry 
fees, travel expenses and council tax. 
It looks like Haven has reimbursed Mrs S for some of these costs, for example council tax 
and broadband costs at the rental property. However, when she raised her complaint with 
Haven in April 2023, she included a spreadsheet of costs she thought should be covered. 
Haven doesnt appear to have acknowledged these costs.
I think it would be reasonable for Haven to cover Mrs Ss additional expenses for the period  
14 January to 24 March 2023. However, the costs Mrs S is claiming for are less than the 
amount our investigator recommended Haven pay. And I dont think it would be fair to tell 
Haven to cover expenses that Mrs S didnt incur. 
Mrs S hasnt provided documentary evidence to demonstrate her additional travel expenses. 
I can see shes calculated her costs at 45p per mile. I think it would be reasonable for Haven 
to reimburse Mrs S for additional petrol costs for extra journeys she needed to take.
However, the average cost of petrol is around 18p a mile. Using the mileage on Mrs Ss 
spreadsheet, Ive calculated her petrol costs to be around £566. So, I think it would be fair 
for Haven to pay Mrs S this amount for her travel costs. 
Mrs S has also claimed £120 for food costs for a period of four days when she didnt have 
the use of a kitchen, prior to her moving into the long-term let. I think it would be reasonable 
for Haven to also pay this as it would equate to £10 per adult and £5 per child for each day.
So, I think Haven should pay Mrs S a total of £686 for reasonable costs that it doesnt 
appear to have already considered.
Fridge
Haven agreed to pay Mrs S an amount to cover the cost of a replacement fridge after hers 
was damaged by its contractors. However, it says it wont pay the VAT until Mrs S has 
provided evidence of the purchase. 
Mrs S is concerned about being out of pocket in the event that Haven doesnt reimburse her 
straight after she purchases the fridge. I think this is understandable, given the delays in 
reimbursing her for alternative accommodation costs. 
Its unclear, from the information I have, exactly what Haven agreed to pay for the fridge. But 
I think it would be fair for it to pay her the amount agreed including VAT, so that Mrs S can 
go ahead and buy a new fridge at the appropriate time.
Distress and inconvenience
Haven has acknowledged providing Mrs S with poor service, particularly with regard to 
arrangement and payments for her alternative accommodation. 
Mrs S arranged her own short-term let early on in the claim but had to move back into the 
property for a couple of weeks because of a delay in Haven authorising costs. Mrs S was 
concerned about the health of her family during this time. She also had the inconvenience of 
having to travel back and forth to her parents home for showers etc.
Mrs S says her family of four had to stay in one hotel room for around a month. This 
impacted their sleep and their mental health. Haven has acknowledged that poor communication between its agents affected its ability to 
find suitable accommodation for Mrs S and her family. They were seeking a property which 
would allow pets, even though Mrs S didnt require this. Mrs S says she had to take a day off 
work to source a property herself. 
Haven has also acknowledged delays in reimbursing Mrs Ss alternative accommodation 
costs. This caused Mrs S unnecessary stress and she had to borrow money from her mother 
to pay £10,000 for the six month rental. It took almost a month to be reimbursed, despite  
Mrs S contacting Haven several times to chase it up. 
I appreciate Mrs S was caused considerable distress, upset and worry over a number of 
months because of Havens poor handling of her claim. However, it had already offered her 
£700 prior to our service considering her complaint. This is in line with the compensation our 
service would typically award for distress and inconvenience under the circumstances. So, 
Im not persuaded to increase this.
I set out what I intended to direct Haven to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs S said the costs she incurred between 23 December 2022 and 14 January 2023 
seemed to have been ignored. She said there was additional travel of 896 miles in two cars 
for her and her husband. She said these trips were necessary to ensure that damage to the 
house would not worsen. She said she hadnt been told by the loss adjuster she could claim 
for the additional expense. If she had been told by her insurer, she would have taken 
readings from her car mileage reader and kept receipts. 
Mrs S felt her travel costs to her parents for showers and laundry between 21 January and 3 
February should be considered. She also commented that shed completed 38 trips to her 
office between 3 January and 23 March 2023. Before her claim shed only visited the office 
one day a week, so these additional trips based a huge financial burden and cost on her. 
She said if suitable accommodation had been sought for her family, such travel would not 
have been required.
Mrs S said she didnt think 18p per mile was sufficient to take into account the wear and tear 
the additional mileage would have done to her car. She thought this element of her claim 
should be re-evaluated with the mileage calculated at 45p an hour for 3212 miles travelled. 
Mrs S said she was in agreement with the position relating to £700 for distress caused. 
Mrs S attached a screenshot of the fridge she said Haven had agreed to at a cost of £1,098 
which had now gone up to £1,650. She said there were a couple of cheaper fridges shed 
seen that shed also be happy to accept. If Haven was able to source a cheaper one that 
was available/in stock at the time of payment being made shed be happy to accept that.
Haven said it had nothing further to add and could agree to my recommendations as a 
resolution.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate Mrs S doesnt feel that all of her additional travel expenses have been 
considered. However, strictly speaking the terms of the policy dont cover the additional 
costs of living away from home while a property is uninhabitable. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think its fair and good industry practice for an 
insurer to cover reasonable additional costs in these circumstances. But that doesnt mean 
that Haven needs to pay all of the additional costs Mrs S incurred. 
I appreciate Mrs S and her husband travelled back and forth between their property and   
Mrs Ss parents address and I understand their reasons for doing so. However, these travel 
costs arent covered by the policy.
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs S provided on her spreadsheet to work out 
what a reasonable amount would be for Haven to contribute to Mrs Ss additional costs. Her 
daily trips for showers from 21 January to 3 February 2023 were included in my calculation. 
As were her travel costs to work. While I think its reasonable for Haven to pay towards    
Mrs Ss additional costs for petrol, Im not persuaded that it should pay for the wear and tear 
of her vehicle. 
While it might not be enough to cover all of Mrs Ss additional costs, I think the amount I said 
Haven should pay towards food and travel costs in my provisional decision is reasonable.
 
I can see that Haven initially offered Mrs S £729.70 for a replacement fridge, but Mrs S said 
this particular fridge was no longer available. Haven offered Mrs S a much higher cash 
settlement based on a fridge that Mrs S wanted to buy. Mrs S says this fridge has since 
increased in price. 
However, Mrs S was happy to accept Havens cash settlement offer for the replacement 
fridge in July 2023 and provided her bank details so the payment could be made. The matter 
in dispute was that Haven wasnt willing to include VAT in the cash settlement without seeing 
a copy of the purchase invoice. Mrs S wanted to have the full cash settlement in advance of 
purchasing the fridge. 
As the amount of the cash settlement wasnt in dispute, I havent considered this here. Ive 
only considered whether or not it was fair for Haven to withhold the VAT until it had seen the 
purchase invoice. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs S, but having carefully considered her 
additional points, they havent made a difference to the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Haven should pay Mrs S:
£686 to compensate her for travel costs and food expenses plus
The amount agreed for a new fridge (including VAT) and
£700 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman