DRN-3067056
The complaint
Mr R and Miss S complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt manage their 
claim effectively leading to delays and issues with alternative accommodation. 
Mr R and Miss S were leaseholders of a flat within a block owned by a management 
company. The management company is the policyholder of the buildings insurance and has 
provided consent for this complaint. Mr R and Miss S, as beneficiaries of the insurance 
provision, have brought this complaint, so I will refer only to them throughout my decision.  
What happened
Mr R and Miss S flat was damaged, along with four other properties in the block following a 
major water leak on a neighbouring property on 26 July 2020. A claim was made, and Aviva 
said the management company advised Mr R and Miss S to book into a hotel and the claim 
would progress. Mr R and Miss S said they were unable to get visibility of the insurance 
policy.
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to validate the claim. Mr R and Miss S said they were told to 
get quotes for the remedial works. They also said the loss adjuster asked them to send in 
photos of the damage, but Mr R and Miss S had to send these on three separate occasions 
before they were able to be downloaded and viewed by the loss adjuster.
Mr R and Miss S said the loss adjuster had arranged to visit the property to assess the 
damage, but they said the scheduled appointment was cancelled without their knowledge. 
Mr R and Miss S said the property was later assessed on 14 August 2020 and they were 
informed by the loss adjuster he would arrange for a drying company to assess the condition 
of the ceiling and walls. But this was delayed.
Mr R and Miss S said the claim didnt progress much in the second half of August, but there 
was ongoing dialogue between the loss adjuster and them in relation to quotes that had 
been submitted. Mr R and Miss S didnt feel the loss adjuster provided a good service and 
said, everything he says is contradictory to his actions and felt his manner was bullying and 
outspoken. Mr R and Miss S were also unhappy with the settlement in relation to costs for a 
new boiler.
Mr R and Miss S received payment in arrears for the first months hotel costs and food 
expenses, which they felt shouldve been paid in advance or settled directly with the hotel. 
Following Mr R and Miss S complaint to the loss adjuster on 1 September 2020, a property 
search agency was appointed to find more suitable accommodation for them whilst their 
home was un-inhabitable. A drying company further assessed the damage at their home and 
another assessment was needed by the loss adjuster in mid-September to support validation 
of the remedial works required.
Aviva couldnt find suitable accommodation with a six-month tenancy, so it decided to 
arrange a serviced apartment for Mr R and Miss S. Mr R and Miss S were dissatisfied as 
they thought this shouldve been offered to them from the outset. Mr R and Miss S said it 
was a difficult period for them in the hotel during the pandemic and they had no cooking 
facilities, so their options for food were severely limited.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Aviva had followed a 
reasonable process to validate the claim and settle the hotel costs. He did think the claim 
couldve been handled better and he thought Aviva had contributed to around a month of 
delays. However, he thought Avivas compensation offer of £300 was reasonable for this. Mr 
R and Miss S disagreed, and they indicated they think compensation should be increased to 
£1,000, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 23 August 2021. I said:
I will deal with the different points raised separately and then consider if I think the 
compensation offered by Aviva is overall fair when considering the different aspects.
Visibility of insurance policy
Mr R and Miss S wanted access to the policy so they could understand what they were 
covered for. As the policy was held with the managing company directly, it wouldve been the 
managing companys decision whether to share this document with the lessees of the flats, 
so its not fair for me to consider this part of the complaint against Aviva.
Delays
The initial assessment by the loss adjuster was cancelled and unfortunately this wasnt 
communicated in advance to Mr R and Miss S, which caused inconvenience to Miss S. 
Aviva have been reasonable in saying this wasnt acceptable and has apologised. Aviva has 
explained the appointment was cancelled as it was unable to get access to all the damaged 
properties on the date of the appointment. I think it was reasonable to postpone this 
appointment for a few days for this reason. However, the delays were much longer.
The property damage was assessed on 14 August, three weeks after the initial incident. 
After Mr R and Miss S complained to Aviva, further assessments were carried out by the 
loss adjuster and drying company that ran into mid-September, so it took around seven 
weeks for the damage to be properly assessed and validated before quotes for the remedial 
works could be accepted.
It is fair for an insurer to have time to validate a claim and it would be reasonable for Mr R 
and Miss S to expect some level of inconvenience with making a claim. However, given the 
severity of the damage and the inconvenience for Mr R and Miss S living in a hotel during 
this period with limited dining options, I wouldve expected Aviva to have assessed and 
progressed the claim quicker than it did. I think the delay has led to Mr R and Miss S 
requiring temporary accommodation for a longer period than they shouldve needed it.
Validation of the claim
Mr R and Miss S were unhappy that they had to send photos of the damage to Aviva on 
three separate occasions. Aviva explained that it thought the photos may not have been 
delivered due to the size of the file. I know this wouldve been frustrating for Mr R and Miss 
S, along with the general delays they experienced but I dont have any evidence to suggest 
this had a significant impact on the overall outcome of the claim. However, it did add to their 
overall dissatisfaction with the customer service during the claim.Mr R and Miss S felt dissatisfied that they were asked to get quotes themselves for the 
remedial works. They felt this was unnecessary and shouldve been co-ordinated by Aviva. I 
have considered whether the information that Aviva has asked for is reasonable for it to 
validate the claim. I can see photos, on site assessments and quotes were used to validate 
the claim. I dont think this is unreasonable or unusual, Aviva have followed a sensible 
process to check the claim is covered by the policy and to check the costs of remediation are 
fair.
However, I think Aviva couldve explained the claims process to Mr R and Miss S more 
effectively and supported them through the process better. I think there is some evidence 
that Aviva couldve managed the claim better and provided Mr R and Miss S with better 
customer service, explaining clearer the options they had. Mr R and Miss S did complain 
about the attitude of the loss adjuster. I havent seen any evidence to support Mr R and Miss 
S assertions about the loss adjuster, so I wont uphold this specific point. But, I do think 
there is evidence that the customer service was poor at times for the reason I have set out.
I have looked at the validation that was carried out for the costs of replacing the boiler. Mr R 
and Miss S were unhappy that Aviva wouldnt cover the costs for another contractor to 
supply and fit the boiler. Aviva said its own contractor wouldve been able to do the same 
works for a lower cost, so I think Aviva have been reasonable in only reimbursing the lower 
amount. This was a fair amount for the works and Mr R and Miss S did have the option to 
use Avivas contractor.
Alternative accommodation
Mr R and Miss S didnt think the hotel accommodation was suitable for their needs and felt 
the emphasis was on them to find suitable alternative accommodation. The managing 
company instructed them to find a hotel on the day of incident. I think the right action was 
taken to immediately place Mr R and Miss S in safe accommodation, whilst the impact and 
severity of the damage could be assessed. So, I think a reasonable approach has been 
taken here.
Mr R and Miss S were in hotel accommodation for nearly nine weeks and they thought this 
wasnt satisfactory as dining options were limited and they said it wasnt suitable during the 
pandemic. Mr R and Miss S felt they were left to find their own accommodation. Aviva said it 
did try and find alternative accommodation through its contractor, but highlighted difficulties 
sourcing appropriate accommodation in the area close to where Mr R and Miss S home 
was. It also said landlords renting out properties were unwilling to offer six-month rentals. 
Finding alternative accommodation is not always easy, but the policy does cover the 
reasonable additional cost of similar comparable accommodation.
Its unclear exactly when Mr R and Miss S first raised their frustration with living in the hotel. 
I can see it was part of the complaint they raised on 1 September 2020. However, Aviva has 
shown evidence it appointed a specialist search agency to support finding more appropriate 
accommodation, so from this point I do think it has shown a reasonable approach. However, 
I do think the delays in the claim outlined above both increased the time Mr R and Miss S 
were in alternative accommodation and, the length of time they had to stay in a hotel 
specifically. So, I think this created inconvenience for Mr R and Miss S that couldve been 
avoided.  
Mr R and Miss S were unhappy their hotel expenses were paid in arrears once they had 
provided receipts to the loss adjuster. Its normal for insurers to want to validate a claim and 
costs before paying them, but I have seen different insurers take a different approach to 
reimbursing hotel costs. In some cases, I have seen insurers settle these costs directly with 
the hotel.In normal circumstances, I would be comfortable with Avivas approach. However, I do think 
the circumstances in this complaint are slightly different:
As outlined earlier, Aviva caused delays in assessing the claim, so I think this has 
contributed to the hotel expenses not been approved in a timely manner
Avivas general communication of the process has not been effective, so I dont think 
Mr R and Miss S were clear how to recover these costs
Mr R and Miss S first raised the issue of not been refunded these costs on 7 August 
2020 and again on 25 August 2020, so I think it was clear they were unhappy with 
the situation.
I dont think Avivas approach was reasonable in these circumstances. Its first payment to 
Mr R and Miss S for the hotel expenses was on 26 August 2020, which was nearly three 
weeks after the issue was first known to it leaving Mr R and Miss S out of pocket by over 
£2,000 up until that point.
Aviva accepted responsibility for issues during the claim and have offered a total of £300 in 
compensation decided to offer Mr R and Miss S, which included:
£200  failure of the drying company not being appointed for several weeks
£50  the chasing that Mr R and Miss S did to progress the claim
£50  delay to drying due to a light still being in situ
I have broken down this complaint and considered each of the areas that has gone wrong to 
see if I think the overall award of compensation is fair. I think Aviva has offered a reasonable 
level of compensation for the specific points it has highlighted in its compensation award.
However, I dont think it has provided a fair level of compensation overall for the complaint, 
as I dont think it has considered all aspects. Therefore, I uphold this complaint. Aviva has 
acknowledged delays in managing the claim, but I dont think it has fully taken account the 
impact these delays have had on Mr R and Miss S in respect to the alternative 
accommodation. The delay in assessing the damage and validating the claim led to:
Delays in Mr R and Miss S hotel expenses to be reimbursed
Mr R and Miss S requiring alternative accommodation for a longer period
Mr R and Miss S being in hotel accommodation for a longer period
Mr R and Miss S has asked for compensation of £1,000. This is an extremely high level of 
compensation for our service to award and I dont think the circumstances of this complaint 
support this amount. I also dont think there is evidence that Mr R and Miss S escalated the 
difficulty they had with the hotel arrangement until their complaint on the 1 September 2020 
at which point there is evidence that Aviva seemed to step up their efforts to find more 
suitable accommodation.
Therefore, having considered the circumstances, I intend to award a further £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr R and Miss S suffered as a result of the 
delays, which recognises Avivas efforts to put the situation right after the complaint was 
made. I also intend to award a further £50 compensation for the poor customer service I 
have explained that Mr R and Miss S received as this would have been frustrating for them 
and caused them unnecessary distress.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr R and Miss S acknowledged my decision but didnt have anything more to add.Aviva didnt reply to my provisional decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr R and Miss S:
£250*  compensation for distress and inconvenience for delays and poor customer 
service (this in addition to the £300 Aviva originally offered).
*Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr R and Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman