DRN-1719265
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that AXA Insurance UK refused to pay their solicitors costs incurred 
when they disputed AXAs decline of their medical travel insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J had travel insurance through a bank account and AXAs the insurer. They 
made a claim after Mrs J became ill abroad. AXA initially declined the claim, which was for a 
considerable amount of money. AXA said Mrs Js medical condition abroad was linked to a 
medical condition she hadnt told it about so there was no cover.
Mr and Mrs J hired a solicitor to help them complain and AXA accepted the claim. AXA says 
it also paid compensation for Mr and Mrs Js upset. Mr and Mrs J were left with their 
solicitors costs of about £4,000 which they want AXA to pay. 
AXA refused to pay the solicitors costs. It said the costs werent covered by the policy. Mr 
and Mrs J hadnt made a complaint to it at the time of the claim decline and they could have 
complained to it and our service to look at the complaint for free. AXA also said it was Mr 
and Mrs Js choice to hire a solicitor and incur legal costs.
Our investigator thought AXA acted fairly in not paying the solicitor's costs.
Mr and Mrs J disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. They say AXA should have paid 
the claim in the first place and they tried to get AXA to pay the claim before getting a 
solicitor. They also say they didnt know about our service at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in not paying Mr and Mrs Js 
solicitors costs, and I think it did. I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Mr and Mrs J are aware the policy doesnt cover a policyholder's solicitors costs in 
these circumstances. But I also think AXA's other reasons for refusing to pay are fair.
AXA says Mrs and Mrs J didnt complain to it at the time of the claim decline and only 
complained through their solicitor, which Mr and Mrs J dispute. Ive seen no evidence that Mr 
and Mrs J complained themselves to AXA when the claim was declined. But even if they did 
complain before they went to a solicitor it was their choice to get legal advice and incur legal 
costs. AXA didnt agree, or give them any indication, that it would pay the solicitors costs.
Mr and Mrs J could have complained to us if they had first complained to AXA and were 
unhappy with its complaint decision. We look at such complaints for free. Mr J says they 
didnt know about our service at the time and AXA should have told them. But AXA would only need to tell them about our service if they had made a complaint and AXA had the time 
the relevant rules allow for it to respond to the complaint. 
Also, when Mr and Mrs Js solicitor wrote to AXA with their complaint the solicitor said AXA 
needed to respond by a specified date or Mr and Mrs J would take their complaint to our 
service. So even if Mr and Mrs J didnt know about our service at the time their solicitor did 
and could have advised them.
It was Mr and Mrs Js decision to use a solicitor and incur legal costs to complain to AXA, 
which they didnt have to do. Theres no basis on which I can fairly and reasonably say AXA 
must pay the solicitors costs. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman