DRN-1989485
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC put obstacles in the way of her refinancing business 
lending, and this meant that receivers were appointed.
What happened
Mrs A had business lending with Lloyds. In 2015 it issued a final demand as there were 
arrears. And in May 2017 Lloyds obtained a possession order but with a condition that it 
could not be enforced for six months. Mrs A explains that she made arrangements to repay 
part of the borrowing in January 2018. She was trying to refinance the remainder but was not 
able to do so until November 2018 after the receivers had been appointed. She says that 
Lloyds and its solicitors did not respond to requests and gave incorrect information. This 
delayed things and led to avoidable costs. She and her husband have been very stressed 
about what happened, and it affected their health.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and Mrs A be paid £100. 
He set out the chronology of what happened and focussed on these key areas:
- In November 2017 Mrs A contacted Lloyds solicitors emphasising that a property 
was being sold and the money would be paid to Lloyds. She asked that enforcement 
of the possession order be delayed. He saw that after a couple of days shed applied 
to the court before an answer could reasonably be given and so was responsible for 
the court fees. But no formal response to her request had been made until 2 January 
2018 even though Lloyds had agreed to the extension.
- Although Mrs A had received an agreement in principle for the refinance in January 
2018 this had expired in February 2018. The lender involved had asked Lloyds for 
information about the borrowing and there was no record of any response. Lloyds 
said it was sent to the wrong department, but he thought that this could have been 
redirected. And it was not until a further request was sent in May 2018 that a 
response was provided in June 2018.
- In July 2018 a valuation was undertaken and a further agreement in principle given in 
August 2018. Lloyds then had allowed further time for the refinancing.
- Lloyds had set out its responses to requests for redemption figures from August 
through to November 2018. He did not think that there had been any unreasonable 
delay in providing those but clearly it had not been possible to complete the 
refinance.
- Things came to a head at the end of October 2018 and a firm deadline was set by 
Lloyds. As this was not met receivers were appointed on 5 November 2018. Mrs A 
was subsequently able to refinance on 16 November 2018 but had to pay legal costs 
and also those of the receivers of £3,000.
- He could see Lloyds had allowed Mrs A an extended period of time to refinance. He 
thought that it had acted reasonably save for not dealing better with the information 
request in January 2018. But given the time after that for the refinance to conclude 
he was unable to decide this had any other impact. He suggested the compensation 
for the distress caused by it not responding.
Mrs A did not agree and asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
that the investigator had looked into what happened, but she remained distressed by the 
way Lloyds treated her. She was a loyal customer and did nothing to get into this trouble. 
Her interest only loans were changed to a repayment basis by Lloyds and she could not 
afford them. It was because of that everything went wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make clear that Im not going to be looking at events before the possession order 
for several reasons. That was something Mrs A acknowledged would not be looked at when 
she referred her complaint. Its right that this service wouldnt go behind the decision of a 
Court. And also, some of the history of her borrowing and for example events in 2015 around 
the time of the formal demand were considered in a final decision by an ombudsman 
colleague in 2015.
The Court allowed Mrs A at least six months following the possession order before it could 
be enforced. In fact, Lloyds provided her with almost 18 months before receivers were 
appointed. I fully appreciate Mrs As position that if only it had waited a further few days then 
the finance would be completed. But if I take an overall view of what happened Im afraid I 
think it already had given Mrs A a significant period of extra time. 
There were clearly some communication issues which came at a time of high stress for    
Mrs A. In November 2017, knowing that the order could then be enforced, she asked about 
an extension. There were then funds due from a property sale she explains were delayed by 
the need to extend the lease. Lloyds agreed to an extension, but this was not communicated 
to her. While she applied to the court in any event, I dont doubt that this was additional 
distress. She did make a sizeable repayment of over £275,000 and was trying to deal with 
the remaining borrowing.
Ive considered what happened following the request for redemption information in January 
2018. Things do sometimes get overlooked or end up in the wrong department and if 
received in this way I would have expected Lloyds to redirect this. But given as Mrs A 
explains the urgency of things, Im unclear why this wasnt followed up again until May 2018. 
And when it then was it was completed. As our investigator says that doesnt seem to be 
what was holding up the refinance especially as this did not then complete for a number of 
months. And if it had been, I dont know why that didnt become apparent before.
I know Mrs A was unhappy with the way Lloyds administered her accounts. Shed agreed to 
make payments of £2,000 a month which went to a current account. Debits were still 
attempted for full loan payments taking the account overdrawn. And then some were 
reversed. Lloyds said it never agreed to consolidate the loans and as the accounts were 
open dealt with them in this way. I appreciate that might have taken some explaining on the 
part of Mrs A to the potential new lender. But frankly the loans had been subject to final 
demand and there was a possession order and I dont see this was an error on the part of 
Lloyds. Or that there was any ongoing agreement that ought to have been reflected as that 
wasnt the position here.
Mrs A was clearly pushing for the refinance and wanted to demonstrate that. But apart from 
the agreement in principle letters that expired after a month she did not have any firm 
evidence that a refinance would go through. So, I can understand why at times Lloyds was 
reluctant to show further forbearance. And although a number of redemption requests had 
been made in October 2018 the refinance just hadnt completed. Lloyds has set out in its 
response to the complaint how and when it responded to each request and Im not 
persuaded it was really the source of the delay here.In summary I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably. It had given Mrs A time to refinance. I 
dont think I can blame Lloyds for that not happening any earlier for the reasons Ive set out 
above. Although as I say its communication at a difficult time could have been better.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that compensation for the communication issues identified is 
appropriate. Having looked at this afresh and considered what Mrs A has said about this I 
have decided that the appropriate amount is £200. I appreciate that Mrs A will remain 
disappointed with this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs A 
£200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman