DRN-3896543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc (RBS) in relation to a loan application.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr and Mrs R applied for a loan with RBS online. Paperwork was sent out for 
them to sign, which was returned a few days later. After not hearing anything Mr R called to 
chase an update, but wasnt able to speak to the loan team. RBS says it sent a letter in early 
September 2022 asking to see ID and payslips, but Mr and Mrs R say they didnt receive 
that. The couple had put down a deposit for a motorhome, and were at risk of losing it  so 
borrowed from a family member, while continuing to chase for an update by phone. 
After not getting anywhere by phone, Mr and Mrs R went into branch and were told ID and 
payslips were required before the loan could be approved. They supplied copies of both to 
the branch staff that day, which were forwarded onto the loans team. RBS says it sent a text 
asking them to get in touch, but both Mr and Mrs R say they never received one. They 
continued to chase the bank by phone for the next month, but to no avail. During one call 
they were told the loan had been declined because it was for a static caravan  but that 
wasnt the case, and theyd not told RBS the specific purpose of the loan. After being 
promised call-backs that didnt happen Mr and Mrs R raised a complaint. 
RBS sent its final response in October 2022 and apologised for the service. It offered £200 
compensation plus costs for not returning calls, transferring Mr R to different departments 
when he phoned, providing incorrect information during those conversations and not 
communicating the loan application had been declined. The letter reiterated the application 
had been declined due to an invalid purpose, and advised Mr and Mrs R to appeal the 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs R submitted an appeal via their branch, and continued to chase RBS for the next 
few weeks. On the last call before referring the matter to our service Mr and Mrs R were told 
the loan offer had expired. They asked us to review the complaint, initially wanting the loan 
to be approved so they could pay back the family member  but alternative finance was 
eventually secured elsewhere. So instead Mr and Mrs R asked for an increase to the 
compensation offered, and an explanation as to how the bank had the wrong information 
recorded on its system about the application. 
An investigator here reviewed everything and thought the loan hadnt been declined, but 
rather RBS hadnt received certified proof of ID and income before the offer expired. In her 
view the branch had made an error by not certifying the copies, and RBS should have done 
more to contact Mr and Mrs R to obtain what was needed. She also thought the appeal had 
been a waste of time, as the application hadnt been declined. The investigator couldnt offer 
Mr and Mrs R any further explanation around why theyd been told on several occasions that 
the application had been declined due to the purpose  as the RBS didnt know why its 
agents had said that. For the upset and inconvenience caused by the mistakes, the 
investigator recommended RBS paid an additional £150 compensation.
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept the investigators opinion, as they believed far more 
compensation was needed to put right the impact caused. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review things and sent in detailed submissions explaining the significant worry and 
embarrassment caused by RBSs failings during the previous few months.
The case was passed to me, and I thought a higher award was warranted. I sent my 
provisional findings to both parties, explaining that I considered £1,000 would fairly address 
the impact caused to both Mr and Mrs R. Ive detailed below the considerations I set out in 
my findings when reaching that outcome:
   
I wasnt persuaded RBS sent a letter in early September 2022 or a text about the 
application. That was because RBS had no corresponding system evidence or audit 
trail to corroborate either being sent. No copy of the letter had been provided, nor 
was there any reference to it on the system. An agent had recorded text sent on the 
loan notes, but RBS hadnt shown where the text had been sent or what it said. I 
asked RBS to talk me through the process for sending texts, but it didnt. I pointed 
out that the loan processing notes referenced a text being sent to the joint applicant, 
but Mrs R didnt have a mobile number recorded on RBSs system. So, in the 
circumstances, I wasnt prepared to take it on trust that a text had been sent correctly 
to either Mr or Mrs R, based on an agent writing theyd done it in the notes.
 
Mr and Mrs R were understandably worried about who the text had been sent to, and 
what it said (whether it contained financial information for them, for instance). They 
only found out when I sent my provisional findings that I didnt think it was likely sent 
to anyone else.
It appeared the branch didnt certify the copies of payslips given  but given Mr and 
Mrs R bank with RBS, the exact figures on those payslips could have been matched 
up with payments into the account. Therefore, I didnt consider further ID or 
certification ought to have been needed to approve this loan. The purpose (for a 
motorhome) wasnt excluded under the lending criteria either  so I considered it 
should have been approved and paid within a couple of weeks.
RBS didnt have any records of the contact made to chase the application by the 
couple during the two and half month period in question. It did refer to a couple of 
calls in its final response letter, but Mr and Mrs R had maintained detailed records of 
what happened  so I was persuaded by their account. Particularly in the absence of 
anything to the contrary from RBS.
It seemed as though between 12 and 15 calls were made to the bank during the 
period in question. Each one wouldve been very frustrating, as Mr and Mrs R werent 
able to get an update on the status of the application, and were at other times told 
incorrect information (like the reason for the decline). There were also at least two 
branch visits, and several letters and emails sent  including an appeal letter (sent 
twice), which we know was a waste of time, as the application hadnt been declined.
The incorrect reason for the decline worried Mr and Mrs R, as they had never told 
RBS the borrowing was for a static caravan (they only told the bank the money was 
for personal spending). That caused them to speculate what kind of surveillance the 
bank had undertaken to reach that conclusion, as it wasnt the actual reason but 
close enough to leave them suspicious. RBS hadnt been able to explain this either, 
which left Mr and Mrs R with lingering doubts. I concluded that RBSs records for the 
whole application were so limited it didnt really know what had happened, so I 
thought the errors simply resulted from incompetence rather than anything untoward.RBSs mistakes meant Mr and Mrs R had to put in place last minute funding, so as to 
not lose a £2,000 deposit for their new motorhome. That came from a number of 
sources  including a family member, but also borrowing from a credit union against 
savings. That has tied them up for a considerable amount of time and meant Mr and 
Mrs R have had to scale back plans to celebrate a big birthday for Mrs R. Theyll 
likely not pay as much interest on the borrowing as they would have done (though 
they will pay some), so I kept that in mind. But I wasnt persuaded that the small 
potential financial gain should lower my considerations on compensation for the 
distress or inconvenience that much  as borrowing the money was so they could 
pay back manageably and leave them with funds should they need them. I thought 
they wouldve happily traded any financial gain to forgo this experience. Due to the 
short-term nature of the borrowing arrangements, Mr and Mrs R have also had to pay 
a lot of it back much quicker than they wanted to  which put some additional 
financial strain on them during the last year. 
I also considered theyd been left without contingency funds readily available in case 
anything went wrong  and Mr and Mrs R have spoken about their anxiety around 
that (why they decided to borrow the money in the first place). Which would now 
cause ongoing worry.
The whole journey was hugely inconvenient and time consuming for both customers 
 with it mostly being Mr Rs time wasted, but I thought Mrs R was also 
inconvenienced with branch visits and correspondence. So I considered the £200 
offered by RBS was well short, in terms of compensation for two individuals, even 
when thinking solely about the time wasted and effort for them both. There were 
likely some financial costs incurred, including petrol to the branch  though £21.60 
had been paid already towards call costs. I explained I planned to wrap up whatever 
additional financial losses there had been into my overall thinking on compensation.
What persuaded me most that the compensation needed to be increased significantly 
was the emotional impact this all had on both Mr and Mrs R. I included the details of 
that for the bank with my findings, so RBS could see the impact explained in their 
own words. But in summary, I was satisfied there was a lot of worry and stress over 
the period, caused by the uncertainty and lack of updates, combined with their 
looming deadline. There was also a lot of embarrassment and shame, for Mr R in 
particular, surrounding having to borrow the money  and it caused tension between 
the joint borrowers. I think the errors had a serious impact on them both  and 
therefore, bearing in mind our published guidance, I said I planned to award £1,000 
between the two complainants.
Mr and Mrs R had spoken about their keenness for an apology from RBS  and I 
could understand that. I said I thought the bank had apologised already via the final 
response letter and in the submissions it made to our service  but, as Ive explained 
above, I didnt think RBS had quite appreciated the extent of the impact caused in 
this case. I thought RBS could best demonstrate it was sorry by paying Mr and Mrs R 
fair compensation. I also explained I wasnt keen on forcing a party to apologise, as 
that (to my mind) would be an empty sentiment.
I noted Mr and Mrs Rs comments that any compensation should be enough to deter 
RBS from treating customers similarly in future. I said in my provisional findings that, 
while I cant make a punitive award, I would like to reassure Mr and Mrs R that the 
regulators rules required the bank to learn from and make improvements based on 
ombudsmens decisions.Mr and Mrs R replied to say they were prepared to accept the resolution Id proffered, in a 
bid to put the ordeal behind them. But they raised the following points:
They noted in RBSs response it had said they should have been put through to the 
loans team when calling. However the staff they spoke to on multiple occasions told 
them they couldnt put customers through to the loans team directly. So either theres 
a major staff training issue or RBS didnt know its own process.
Mr and Mrs R clarified that their funds were tied up for three years on a reducing 
balance, due to the loan through the credit union. They planned to pay back the 
relative within a year.
Id made reference to Mr R being the one that primarily dealt with the bank, but he 
didnt want us to underestimate the impact this whole process had on his wife. Mr R 
said that, among other things, she also lost sleep through worry and ultimately is now 
going to have a reduced celebration because their funds have been compromised.
 
RBS didnt accept my provisional findings  and, in summary, replied to say:
It had provided notes stating both the letter and text had been sent, though no further 
evidence existed to confirm that was the case. RBS was of the opinion that, on the 
balance of probabilities, it was more likely they were sent given the effort that was 
made to note it  and had they not been sent then surely nothing would have been 
noted.
It was RBSs understanding that Mr and Mrs R had given copies to the branch rather 
than actual payslips  which is why the bank wouldnt certify them.
RBS did fully appreciate the distress and inconvenience this situation had caused, 
and it was very sorry to Mr and Mrs R for this. The bank also apologised that it had 
been unable to provide much clarity on some of the issues that had occurred. 
However, RBS believed that the compensation amount I had indicated in my 
provisional findings was excessive on this occasion.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, bearing in mind the responses to my provisional findings, Im not persuaded 
to depart from the outcome I reached. Ive therefore decided £1,000 compensation is 
warranted in the circumstances, for the reasons Id previously given. 
Ive reviewed the system notes again, and cant find any reference to a letter being sent on 2 
September 2022 (though I can see an agent accessed the loan processing notes that day). 
Ive still not seen a copy of it either, so RBS hasnt persuaded me it exists or was sent. I 
appreciate that an agent took the time to record a text had been sent on the system, but 
from the notes it seems that text was sent to Mrs R  and RBS dont hold a mobile number 
for her. So, given the doubt over where it was sent, and the lack of information about the 
process/system in place for sending texts, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs R were told 
more information was needed to support their application.
Addressing the comments made by RBS about the payslips provided to the branch not being 
originals  a lot of people dont receive paper payslips nowadays, they get digital copies sent. So Im confused by how Mr and Mrs R would have provided actual payslips, or what 
would have been acceptable. I also dont know who would have been in a position to certify 
them. The response to my provisional findings was the first time RBS mentioned this, and it 
hasnt provided anything to corroborate that being the case either. Im not persuaded 
certified payslips were needed here, as RBS knew their income and could see the copies 
matched what was paid into their accounts. In any event, Ive decided RBS needed to do 
more to get the additional information it needed to complete Mr and Mrs Rs application. 
Looking at our published guidance for making these types of awards, I put the impact 
caused to both Mr and Mrs R individually in the up to £750 range. That range covers 
scenarios where the impact of a mistake has caused considerable distress, upset and worry 
 and significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. 
Typically, the impact lasts over many weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in 
this range if a mistake has a serious short-term impact. Having considered that guidance, 
and the example case studies which illustrate that award range, I find those to be 
commensurate with the impact caused here (to two individuals). It was significant, and 
RBSs mistakes will continue to affect them for some time.
So, considering all the factors outlined in my provisional findings, Im awarding Mr and Mrs R 
£1,000 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Given RBS has already paid £200 (plus 
£21.60 for calls)  Im directing the bank to pay a further £800 in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc, and direct the bank to pay a further £800 compensation (bringing the total award to 
£1,000). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman