DRN-3047649
The complaint
 Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) lent to
her irresponsibly. 
What happened
 Miss S had a two Barclaycards  one since 2003 (Card A) and one since 2011 (Card B).
This complaint concerns Card A, but I show Card B to show the full picture. Limits were
increased by Barclaycard as follows:
Date  Card A Old Limit New Limit
June 2014 £4080 £6580
May 2015 £6580 £10580
Date  Card B Old Limit New Limit
October 2014 £10000 £11000
October 2015 £11000 £12500
A payment plan of £175 per month was agreed on Card A in February 2016. In April 2021, 
the balance on Card A was £1149.66 debit.
Miss S complains that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased the limit on Card A. She asked 
Barclaycard to set the limit on this card to £500 when it was opened  because she gave the 
card to her daughter to use and wanted to control her spending. Payments had been missed 
and only the minimum amounts were paid each month. The limits were quickly exceeded. 
Miss S spent a lot of time away from the correspondence address and so didnt realise what 
was happening on the account  so she didnt see the statements or limit increase letters. By 
the time she realised what had happened, things were out of control. She was now in a 
position where she couldnt afford to repay the debt. This was causing her, and her 
daughter, a lot of stress and anxiety.
Barclaycard said Miss S had passed their credit checks at the time of the offered increases. 
They couldnt trace any record of the cap of £500 being asked for. But they offered Miss S a 
goodwill payment of £50  which she declined.
Miss S brought her complaint to us. Miss S complaint was made in February 2021  and 
therefore, it could only be considered for the increases up to six years before  i.e. the 
increase in May 2015. But Barclaycard gave consent to look at the June 2014 increase also. 
Our investigator said Barclaycard had acted fairly. He could see that Barclaycards checks 
were passed. There werent any missed payments in the three months before the June 2014 
increase. And on the May 2015 increase, the minimum payments had been made just before 
it. And in some months, more than the minimum was paid. He couldnt find evidence of Miss 
S request to cap the card limit at £500. He thought Barclaycards offer of £50 compensation 
was fair.
Miss S asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. She said the combined 
minimum payment on both cards  with total limits of £23500  wasnt affordable.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. I agree we cant look at what happened before 
2015 but note Barclaycards consent to look at events in 2014.
Miss S has told us that she asked for the card to be capped with a limit of £500. Even though 
the card was in Miss S name, she gave the card to her daughter to use. And I can see that 
she wanted to ensure her daughter lived within her means.
Barclaycard have told us that they dont have a record of Miss S request that the card limit 
be capped at £500. I can see that the card account was opened in 2003, and the limit was 
£510 until July 2012  so, it looks possible that there may have been some sort of 
agreement to cap the limit  but I cant say if this was the case or not. So, accepting this, I 
have looked at the increases in limits in 2014 and 2015  to see if Barclaycard made these 
responsibly.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We must check whether 
Barclaycard acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness 
assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must 
undertake a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the 
customer not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to 
make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
And a reasonable and proportionate check would usually need to be more thorough:
othe lower a customers income, and the higher amount to be repaid.
othe greater the number of loans and frequency of loans.
othe longer the term of the loans
Its important to note that the checks must be proportionate to the amount being lent  so 
the higher the amount, the greater the checks must be, and the lower the amount, then 
fewer checks can be made. In this case, I think the combined credit limits on both cards can be considered to be substantial  and so Barclaycards checks shouldve reflected that 
also.
Barclaycard told us that Miss S passed their credit checks at the time of the increases and 
have shown us these. Theyve shown that the data provided by their credit reference 
agency indicated that the limit on card B was affordable  considering all the data gathered 
on Miss S circumstances at the time. Unfortunately, they cant show the data for card A 
(the card in question) when its limit was increased in May 2015. But, later, as at August 
2015, the data then produced suggests the card was affordable. We dont know what the 
data showed when the limit was increased. But even if the data showed that both cards 
were affordable at the time of the increases, I dont think that necessarily means that 
Barclaycard fulfilled their responsible lending obligations  when we look at the full picture.
Looking at the increase in June 2014 to £6580. Ive looked at Miss S statements. In the 
four months between February 2014 and May 2014, the monthly minimum amount was 
paid twice, and double the minimum was also paid in the other two months. But  Miss S 
was also over her limit in two of those months  and was permanently borrowing up to the 
limit in the other two months. Also  Miss S also had another card (Card B) with a limit of 
£10000. So, after the increase in limit on Card A, she had combined limits of £16580  
this was a considerable amount of credit for a personal customer.
Looking at the limit increase in May 2015 to £10850. Ive looked at Miss S statements for 
the six months from November 2014 to May 2015. Her limit had been increased from 
£4080 to £10580 (an additional £6500) only 11 months before. But - she went over her 
new limit in four months and was up against the limit in the other two months. In four of 
the months, the minimum monthly payment was made  and in the other two months, 
approximately double the minimum was paid. But in those months (April 2015 and May 
2015)  these were paid in between seven and nine instalments over three to four weeks 
each time  I consider this may have indicated possible problems, or at least it was 
unusual. And at this time  Miss S also had Card B with a limit of £11000  so total credit 
of £21580  a considerable amount for a personal customer.
For both limit increases, Ive not seen any evidence that Barclaycard considered Miss S 
overall position, her employment, income and expenditure, assets and liabilities etc  to 
sense check whether such borrowing was affordable. And  given the trends on the Card A 
account, plus Miss S overall credit limits, I think its reasonable to say Barclaycard 
shouldve done more checks that were proportionate to the money they were lending.
Equally  I can see that Miss S couldve opted out of the offered increases but didnt. And  
even though she said she was away from the address on file for much of the time, monthly 
statements and correspondence were sent there  and over a period, she must have had 
the chance to pick them up and see what was happening. So  she must accept some 
responsibility for the debts. And so  the debt does have to be repaid by Miss S. And, also, 
for this reason, I dont intend to make an award of compensation.
But, in all the circumstances of this case, I think that Barclaycard shouldve carried out 
more checks in increasing Miss S limits in June 2014 and May 2015. And I think they 
should therefore refund all interest and fees since June 2014  for the borrowing over 
£4080 - to the date of any final decision. And  remove any adverse entries on Miss S 
credit file from June 2014 to the date of any final decision. If there is a debt remaining after 
the refunds  then a mutually agreeable repayment plan should be put in place.
Responses to the provisional decision:Barclaycard had nothing further to add. But Miss S did. She said:
Our recommendations should apply also to Card B
And - she had set up a balance transfer of £4500 on Card B at 0% interest, but this 
had been cancelled by Barclaycard  this was unfair.
In general, Barclaycard havent worked with her to address her situation.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S has raised some issues regarding Card B. But her complaint was about Card A  and 
thats what weve addressed in our investigation and this provisional decision. So  we cant 
look at Card B here. If Miss S wishes to raise these new complaints about Card B, she 
should do that with Barclaycard.  Also  her point about Barclaycards unwillingness to help 
her is essentially a new point. But I have to say  I didnt notice in my review anything that 
suggested that Barclaycard were particularly unhelpful. 
So  based on this, I am going to issue a final decision which is consistent with the 
provisional decision and for the reasons I gave in it.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard must:
Refund interest and fees for borrowing over £4080 from June 2014 to the date of this 
final decision. These should be refunded to Card A.
Remove any adverse information from Miss S credit file from June 2014 to the date 
of this final decision.
If there is a debt remaining on Card A  then a mutually agreeable repayment plan 
should be put in place.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman