DRN-4444988
The complaint
Mr L complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) delayed transferring his 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) to his new provider. He believes hes lost out as a result 
and would like appropriate compensation for what happened. 
While Mr L brings the complaint with the assistance of his wife, for ease of read I will mostly 
refer to Mr L in this decision as this is his complaint. 
What happened
Mr L wanted to transfer his ISA from Halifax to a new provider, B. The paperwork was 
completed in early March 2023, which Halifax received on 22 March. 
Mr L contacted Halifax in April when he noticed his instruction hadnt gone through. He 
visited his branch a number of times to understand the hold-up and what he needed to do. 
Eventually, he escalated the matter as a complaint when there was no progress. 
Halifax investigated and issued a final response. It explained there was a block on Mr Ls 
account as a preventive measure as information had been taken from his home, following a 
break-in. There was also a delay due to a mismatch in some of the details on the form, 
compared to the details held on its system. It said the blocks had been removed, the ISA 
closed, and a cheque forwarded to B for the new ISA. The latter happening on 2 June.  
It accepted some of its service hadnt been good enough; Mr L and the branch werent able 
to speak with the correct fraud team to resolve the issues. To recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused, it apologised, offered £150 and agreed to cover the interest Mr L had 
lost in not having his new ISA up and running in time. Halifax later calculated the loss of 
interest to be £176.22. But Mr L rejected this payment and the £150.
Mr L asked us to look into his complaint. He felt £150 was woefully low. He explained that he 
had health issues and the stress of this matter had exacerbated them. He also believed hed 
actually lost £800 worth of interest. 
One of our investigators issued her opinion on the case after investigating it. She agreed 
Halifax was responsible for some of the delays but felt that the overall offer of compensation 
was fair in the circumstances. She went onto explain that Halifaxs calculation of lost interest 
(over the period of the delay) was based on Mr L getting a rate of 3.6% on his new ISA, but 
the letters shed reviewed from B to him showed the actual rate he was due on the ISA in 
March was 3.2%. So, there wasnt any basis to require Halifax to pay more. 
Mr L disagreed. So, his complaint has been passed to me for review. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reviewed Halifaxs contact notes and these show that there was a problem with initially 
instigating the ISA transfer. But the intention behind this was reasonable. There was a block 
on the account, which meant Mr Ls instruction couldnt be completed until Halifax spoke with 
him to verify it was an instruction from him. There also appears to have been a problem with 
some of the details. So, I think there was always going to be some minor inconvenience 
involved in addressing those issues, which stem from perfectly legitimate reasons  where 
Id expect a bank to tread with caution. 
The problem here arose when neither the branch or Mr L could speak to the correct fraud 
team and once the blocks were removed the ISA transfer wasnt progressed. But Halifax has 
accepted all of this. So, I dont intend to comment on this further. Instead, the key question is 
whether what Halifax has offered to resolve the compliant is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. My conclusion is that it is. 
On the interest, I havent seen any persuasive documentary evidence that Mr L has lost 
£800 worth of interest. I have read the letter from B to him from March, which proceeded his 
application. This doesnt reference a rate of interest of 4% to him but states 3.2%. Based on 
this, I wouldnt expect Halifax to use 4% in its calculations. It should be worked out using the 
rate of 3.2% but as the investigator explained, it has calculated it on a slightly higher rate of 
3.6%. The 3.6% may be the rate that Mr L later got with B. But either way the calculation on 
the loss of interest is fair and reasonable.* 
*The loss of interest has been calculated properly in that it would be the difference between 
the rate Mr L should have got and the rate he was getting while his money was still with 
Halifax.
I now turn to the issue of whether £150 reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. On 
this, as I said above, Mr L was always going to experience a level of inconvenience in 
sorting this issue out due to the block and personal details requiring attention. But its the 
additional inconvenience that could have been avoided if Halifax had provided better 
customer service and sent the ISA funds once these issues had been resolved. I appreciate  
Mr L has health issues and faces other difficulties. But accepting these, I think Halifaxs offer 
is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, when also considering it has 
apologised and refunded interest. 
My final decision
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has already made an offer to pay in total £326.22 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that should pay Mr L £326.22 (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman