DRN-2218440
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, when she complained about a disputed transaction.  She would like the 
transaction to be refunded, along with compensation for losses and distress and 
inconvenience.
Virgin Money says it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions and the relevant 
regulations.
What happened
Miss S complained about a payment of £11.20 which showed on her statement as unpaid 
fares to Transport for London (TFL).  She said she didnt recognise the transaction and it 
had not been authorised.
Virgin asked her to provide written confirmation she did not recognise the transaction and 
evidence of her attempts to contact TFL in order to resolve the dispute first.  Miss S did not 
do this so Virgin rejected her complaint.
When Miss S brought her complaint to this service, Virgin re-iterated the requirements it had 
made of Miss S.  It said card scheme regulations required Miss S to provide this information 
and to co-operate in its investigation.  It also said that as Miss S had failed to cancel her 
card, the transaction could not be classed as fraud and so it dealt with it as a dispute under 
the chargeback scheme.  
Our investigator looked into matters for Miss S.  Due to this services involvement, Virgin 
said it would refund the £11.20 as a gesture of good will.  But Miss S thought £75 would be 
appropriate.  This included the £11.20 plus costs of postage and £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Virgin did not agree to this, so the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the terms and conditions of Miss Ss account and I also have the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 in the forefront of my mind when considering this complaint.
Generally speaking, the regulations say Miss S will be liable for transactions which she 
authorised, and Virgin will be liable for those she did not.  And I remind myself that it is for 
Virgin to show the payment was authorised  not for Miss S to show it was not.
Ive not been able to find anything in the evidence from Virgin which suggests Miss S was 
under an obligation to contact the merchant before raising a fraud complaint.  And I have not 
seen the regulations which Virgin refers to which state a card must be stopped in order to 
prevent fraudsters using the card again.  Without this, it says, all claims will be treated as a 
dispute rather than fraud.
Without this, its difficult for me to conclude Virgin acted fairly in responding to Miss Ss 
complaint and so I intend to uphold it.
I then draw my mind to what I think is a fair and reasonable way to compensate Miss S  
and I think the figure of £75 which she has suggested is a fair outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay Miss S £75 for the loss she has suffered and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman