DRN-3634083
The complaint
Ms K complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt refunded her for payments she sent 
to four investment scams. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms K did send a large amount of money to these scams and the amount she sent did 
escalate, so I agree that her payments ought to have triggered an intervention by BoS. 
Our investigator said this shouldve happened in April 2016. I consider it shouldve been 
a few payments later in May 2016  when Ms K sent a £9,623.32 payment to the first 
scam firm. However the date of the intervention in this case doesnt impact the overall 
outcome Im reaching.
I say this because I agree with the investigator that an intervention by BoS wouldnt have 
unravelled the two scams Ms K was involved in around this time. 
Ms K has set out the research she did into the first scam and why she was persuaded 
that they were a genuine firm. In 2016, binary options investments were regulated by the 
UK gambling commission and hadnt yet been banned by the FCA, so the information 
and warnings given by BoS in an intervention call wouldnt be the same as what wed 
expect at a later time.
I accept that BoS had a duty of care towards Ms K, but I dont think it asking her 
questions about the firm she was paying or giving her scam education wouldve meant 
she realised she was a victim. Her representative has described how she was 
completely under the spell of the first scammer and confident with the second. And she 
had gathered intelligence from people in a local trading community, which further 
convinced her these opportunities were genuine.
Ms K has also explained the good reviews the firm her May 2016 payment went to had, 
and that her research persuaded her they were genuine and professional. Shed also 
been investing with them for a number of months at this time and seen returns into her 
account.
BoS wouldnt have known or been able to tell her she was being scammed. It could only 
ask questions and give her information and a warning on investment scams, which I 
consider she wouldnt have felt applied to her situation.
I also note that when she did discover her second investment opportunity wasnt 
genuine, she went on to be scammed twice more. So even being the victim of an 
investment scam and losing a large sum didnt lead her to do further research into these 
opportunities before sending her funds. So Im not persuaded information from BoS 
could, or would, have persuaded her to do this at a time when her investments were 
seemingly performing; shed had returns; and she had full trust in the firms she was 
paying.
Ms Ks representative has then gone on to discuss later opportunities that BoS missed in 
relation to intervening on these scams. However Im not persuaded that BoS did need to 
intervene again after May 2016.
Investing in the first two scams dramatically increased the regular spending on Ms Ks 
accounts and changed what her usual pattern looked like. If things had gone as they 
should have, BoS wouldve spoken to her about payments to the first scammer, but as 
above, I think its most likely shed have continued sending these. The first scammer 
then becomes a regular and trusted payee. And payments to the other scams didnt 
exceed the amounts she sent to this first one, so wouldnt themselves have flagged as 
out of character or warranting an intervention call. 
The first evidence weve seen of Ms K reporting these scams is from years after they 
took place. So Im also in agreement with the investigator that there are no recovery 
options for her. She paid on debit card, but would be out of time for any chargeback 
claims, and in any event, shes unlikely to have the evidence needed to support these. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman