DRN-2485263
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Halifax in 1990. At the same time they took out a 
PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage repayments if either of them was off sick or lost 
their job. Halifaxs records show that they took out further PPI policies in connection with the 
mortgage, in 1998 and 2003.
The 1990 policy
The closest policy document that Halifax has been able to provide dates from around three 
years after Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage and the first PPI policy. But based on what 
we typically see in similar policies sold around the time, its likely that it would have paid out 
for up to 12 months per successful claim. Halifaxs records show that the policy covered both 
Mr and Mrs M for accident, sickness and unemployment. So if either of them had made a 
successful claim, it would have paid out a proportion of the full monthly benefit. Its likely that 
this would have been split on a 50:50 basis.
The 1998 policy
The PPI policy that Mr and Mrs M took out in 1998 again covered both Mr and Mrs M. The 
cover was split equally between them, so that it would have paid half the full monthly benefit 
if either of them had made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment. And it would, again, have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim.
The 2003 policy
The PPI cover that Mr and Mrs M took out in 2003 was in the form of a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). That type of plan sometimes included other types of cover, such as 
life cover or critical illness cover. But in this case, the plan consisted purely of PPI. It would 
have paid 80% of the full monthly benefit in the case of Mr M, and 20% in the case of Mrs M, 
if theyd made a successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. And it would have 
done so for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding this case.
Halifax no longer has copies of the paperwork Mr and Mrs M signed when they took out the 
mortgage or the PPI policies. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, bearing in mind 
how long ago the events took place. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, 
I need to decide what I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information 
I have.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M have told us that when they took out the PPI in 1990, it was bundled up as 
part of the mortgage package, and presented as being a prerequisite for approval of the 
mortgage. But without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say that I think its more likely than 
not that Halifax failed to tell them the PPI was optional. 
Ive taken into account what we know about how Halifax normally sold these policies at 
the time, and the documents weve seen in the past. Im satisfied, on balance, that in the 
case of all three policies, the paperwork would have made it clear that the PPI was 
optional, and that Mr and Mrs M would have been asked whether they wanted the cover. 
And I think its more likely than not that on each occasion, the PPI was discussed with 
Mr and Mrs M and the policies were set up because they decided to take the cover. But 
I can understand how they may no longer remember this so many years later. 
I think its likely that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. This means it had a 
responsibility to check that the cover was suitable for them. But it doesn't look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ive borne in mind that Mr and Mrs M have told us theyd have been entitled to sick pay 
and redundancy pay from their respective employers at the time. But all three policies 
would potentially have paid out for longer than theyd have been entitled to full sick pay 
for. Whats more, they would have paid out in addition to any payments Mr and Mrs M 
received from their employers. So they could have used those to meet other day-to-day 
expenses.
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M have also told us they had savings when they took the 
policies out. But Ive borne in mind that theyd chosen to protect those savings, rather 
than taking out a smaller mortgage. And having the PPI would have meant they could 
have continued to keep hold of their savings, or used them to pay for other things, if 
either of them had been off sick or made redundant.
Ive also taken account of the fact that the mortgage was a significant financial 
commitment, secured on Mr and Mrs Ms property, and the consequences of not keeping 
up with their monthly mortgage payments could have been serious. Taking everything 
into account, I think the PPI policies could have been useful to Mr and Mrs M.
It's possible that Halifax didn't point out the main things the policies didn't cover (for 
example, provisions about unusual working arrangements, or existing medical 
conditions). But based on what I've seen of Mr and Mrs M's circumstances at the time, 
it's unlikely they'd have been affected by any of these.All three policies were competitively priced. And since Mr and Mrs M were paying for the 
policies monthly, they could have cancelled the cover at any time without further cost if 
their circumstances changed, or if they decided they no longer wanted it.
Taking everything into account, I'm not satisfied that better information about the PPI 
policies would have put Mr and Mrs M off taking them out. So I don't think they lost out 
as a result of anything Halifax may have done wrong.
Ive taken account of all Mr and Mrs Ms comments, including what theyve said about 
Halifax having strongly recommended this cover and with increased urgency. I accept that 
its likely that Halifax recommended the policies to Mr and Mrs M. But Ive explained above 
that Im satisfied, on balance, that theyd have realised on each occasion that the PPI was 
optional, and that they decided to take it out, knowing that they had a choice. And while I 
dont doubt that Mr and Mrs M have given us their honest recollection, I cant fairly conclude 
that unfair pressure was put on them to take out the PPI, based purely on what they 
remember of events that took place so many years ago.
Ive also borne in mind what Mr and Mrs M have said about Halifax having been aware that it 
was Mrs M who paid the monthly mortgage payments. Theyve queried why the PPI included 
cover for Mr M in the circumstances. But their household income would have been affected if 
either of them had lost their job, or been off sick for an extended period. Whats more, the 
monthly premium for the policy was based on the total amount of monthly benefit Mr and 
Mrs M required to cover their mortgage payments. If the policy had been set up in Mrs Ms 
sole name, the monthly premium for the policy would have been the same as it, in fact, was. 
So Mr and Mrs M would only have been worse off as a result of the policy being in joint 
names if Mrs M had claimed on the policy and received less than she would have done if the 
policy had been in her sole name. As it is, Mrs M didnt make a claim on the policy, which 
was cancelled many years ago. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M arent financially worse 
off as a result of the policies being in joint names than they would have been if theyd been 
in Mrs Ms sole name.
Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs M have said about not having taken out a new policy 
in 1998. They say that all that happened in 1998 was that they started to pay the monthly 
PPI premium in one combined payment with their monthly mortgage payment, rather than 
making separate monthly payments for the PPI as theyd previously done. But Halifaxs 
records show that a new policy was set up in 1998. And even if it was effectively a 
continuation of the existing cover, this doesnt change my view that the PPI wasnt mis-sold.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M. Its clear that theyve invested a lot of time in the 
complaint, and I realise that its frustrating that Ive had to make my decision without sight of 
the documents they signed when they took the policies out. But for the reasons Ive set out, 
I dont find that I can fairly uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman