DRN-3753471
The complaint
Miss M complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled a Section 
75 claim. She would like a refund of £10,200 for defective goods and installation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Barclays acknowledged it took some time to deal with Miss Ms Section 75 claim. 
This was due to unprecedented levels of disputes which unfortunately can happen. 
Barclays paid Miss M £75 compensation for the time taken to deal with her dispute 
which I think was fair as I dont doubt the delay caused her some distress and 
inconvenience.
In terms of Barclays decision not to pursue a Section 75 claim, for such claims there 
needs to be either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Its clear from the email 
trail between Miss M and the merchant that there were some issues with the 
windows/doors  and with the installation. However, the emails dont confirm that the 
issues werent all addressed. Miss M  wasnt able to provide an independent report to 
show issues with the products or with the installation. She also wasnt able to 
evidence remedial work she says she arranged and paid for herself. Additionally, 
although she provided some photographic evidence it doesnt verify the actual issues 
or how they were caused.
I appreciate Miss Ms comments that had Barclays asked for independent evidence 
earlier she might have been able to get this before she sold her property. And that 
remedial work was carried out by contacts through friends which seems to be why 
she cant provide receipts for work done. But as she has been able to evidence 
quotes for such work I am not sure why, if the work went ahead, she cant evidence 
that. I dont think Barclays had sufficient evidence to show either misrepresentation 
or a breach of contract, so I think it decision not to pursue a Section 75 claim was 
reasonable.
After our investigator issued her view Miss M gave us some information that she felt 
amounted to a breach of contract. Firstly, she evidenced from the order form for the 
work that the installation was due to take place over two days. Its unfortunate that 
the work wasnt completed in this timescale, but I dont think that is sufficient grounds 
to say there was a breach of contract. The order form doesnt specifically give a 
guarantee of work being completed in the timescale given.
Secondly Miss M has told us that the merchant cancelled the ten-year guarantee on 
the work which was one of the reasons she chose this merchant and product.  
Although Miss M has given us evidence of this, its in the form of one page of what 
seems be an agreement between Miss M  and the merchant. She has declined to 
give us the full document so that I can see the reference to the guarantee in context . 
Without this it is difficult for me to conclude whether the cancellation of the 
agreement was fair or not. Also, I dont believe  Miss M provided this information to 
Barclays when she made her claim, if this is the case Barclays couldnt have taken 
this into account in looking at the merits of her claim.
Taking into account all of the information that I have seen I think there was 
insufficient evidence provided to Barclays to find either a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract basis for a Section 75 claim .So I dont find Barclays actions unreasonable 
in declining to progress this for Miss M
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman