DRN-3133569
The complaint
Mr D says Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly increased the cost of his lifetime pet insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr D took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his dog with Allianz in August 2016. The 
initial premium was around £440 which increased to around £914 at renewal this year. 
Unhappy with that increase Mr D complained to Allianz. He said hed been able to find 
cheaper cover elsewhere and thought Allianz had overcharged him. 
Allianz said under the terms of Mr Ds policy it was able to change the premium he paid. It 
believed it had been correctly calculated in his case and explained the factors that had led to 
the increase (which it said were included in recent renewal information Mr D had been sent). 
Our investigator was satisfied the premium had been correctly calculated. But he didnt think 
the information Mr D was provided with when he took the policy out was clear enough about 
the potential for significant increases in the cost of the policy. He didnt think Mr D would 
have acted differently if given clearer information but thought the increases would 
nevertheless have come as a shock. He thought Allianz should pay £100 to recognise the 
impact of that on Mr D.
Allianz didnt agree. It didnt think having to shop around for alternative cover was something 
that would have caused Mr D material distress and inconvenience. And it said information 
about the potential for premiums to increase had been included in the more recent renewal 
documentation sent to Mr D. It didnt think any increases after that would have come as a 
shock to him. Mr D remained unhappy with the amount his policy had gone up which he 
continued to feel was unfair. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought first about whether Allianz has correctly calculated the premium increases for 
Mr Ds policy. In doing so Ive taken into account that insurers are entitled to decide how 
much to charge for the insurance cover they provide. 
Its up to them how much they increase their premiums by and its common for the 
percentages of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have the power to tell a business 
what its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it 
should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ds policy is too high, 
he should have been charged less for the policy or that he should be charged less in the 
future (if hed decided to renew).
And the policy terms do allow Allianz to change the premium at renewal. Looking at the 
information Allianz has provided Im satisfied its based its decision on the correct 
information. I havent seen any evidence suggest Allianz have treated Mr D any differently to 
how they would have treated any other policy holder in the same position. So I dont think 
Allianz has done anything wrong in relation to this.
But Allianz should have made clear to Mr D when he took out the policy what the longer term 
cost implications of doing so might be. Ive thought about whether it did that. I can see while 
the policy booklet does explain the premium may change at renewal it doesnt provide more 
information on this. It doesnt for example explain the significant nature of premium 
increases for a policy of this type or explain theres no limit on how much the costs might 
increase by. 
Mr D was clearly interested in lifetime cover for his pet so I agree with our investigator that 
its likely hed have gone ahead with the policy even if hed had clearer information about the 
potential for premiums to increase significantly in future. But I do think those increases are 
likely to have come as a shock to him and will have caused some distress. The cost of the 
policy increased from £440 initially to £914 at renewal this year. Thats an increase of 107% 
in five years.  
I think that went beyond what Mr D would reasonably have thought would take place on the 
basis of the information he was given at the point of sale. And while I appreciate at 
subsequent renewals Allianz did include some of the factors that might cause the cost of a 
policy like this to increase that information didnt clearly set out the extent to which premiums 
could potentially go up. So I think Mr D will still have been impacted when that did happen. 
I appreciate that impact is lessened by the fact Mr D has been able to successfully shop 
around and find alternative cover (which he says is better than the policy he had with 
Allianz). And I accept the Financial Conduct Authority says insurers should encourage 
consumers to do that at renewal. I dont think the time involved in doing so is something that 
in itself would warrant a compensation payment. 
However, this was a lifetime cover policy. Based on the information he had at the point of 
sale Mr D might reasonably have thought he wouldnt need to shop around as his dog would, 
as the name of the policy suggests be Covered for Life. Taking that and the extent of the 
premium increase into account I think its reasonable to say Mr D has been caused some 
distress and inconvenience because he wasnt given clear information about the potential for 
premiums to significantly increase when taking out this policy. I think the £100 compensation 
our investigator recommended is a reasonable way of recognising the impact of that on him. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc will need to put things right by 
paying Mr D £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman