DRN-2296132
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr S, and the late Mrs S, payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a secured loan in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Mr S says he and his late wife didnt want PPI, but they were told that they wouldnt get their 
loan unless they also took PPI.
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of it. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago during which 
memories of details could have faded. And, from what we know of Bank of Scotlands sales 
processes at the time and the available documents, it was, at least on paper, offered as a 
choice. But I would need stronger evidence that the bank staff also said that PPI was 
compulsory.  I realise this puts Mr S in a difficult position, as he is sure he is remembering 
what he was told. But, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mr S and the late Mrs Ss true consent. 
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr S and the late Mrs S, and this means 
we would judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr S and the late Mrs Ss particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though 
a recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr S and 
the late Mrs Ss situation at the time: 
Finding yourself unable to pay a secured loan can lead to significant difficulties.
Its likely Mr S (the person covered by the PPI) was eligible for the policy  so hed be 
entitled to make a claim. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr S received full employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr S and 
the late Mrs S would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the secured loan and other living costs. This all would have put them 
in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness 
or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr S would 
have been affected by any of these
Mr S told us that he had two jobs at the time. I asked him to give me more details about that, 
because sometimes having two jobs can make it difficult to claim if you lose only one of the 
jobs. But the information he gave me reassures me this wouldnt have affected his ability to 
claim. This is because it was a public office for which he was officially required to attend for a 
limited time, and he received only a limited allowance. So an insurer is unlikely to have said 
he was still employed if he lost his main job.
So, taking everything into account, I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so 
a recommendation was suitable. 
The monthly price of the policy was shown on the documents. So I think Mr S and the late 
Mrs S would have understood how much it would cost. 
This all means I cant say that the PPI was mis-sold. But Bank of Scotland will pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S and the estate of Mrs S because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S and the late Mrs S about that. Because Bank 
of Scotland didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
What the business needs to do
If it has not already done so, Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mr S and the estate of 
Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Bank of Scotland should also pay back any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should pay back the extra Mr and Mrs S paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Bank of Scotland 
should also pay Mr S and the estate of Mrs S 8%* simple interest on each payment.*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S and the estate of Mrs S can 
claim back the tax if they doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S and the estate of Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr S and estate of Mrs S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman