DRN-3380840
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc did not apply a hold to his loan account payments 
when requested, and applied interest and charges incorrectly.   
What happened
Mr B had a loan account with Santander. The loan account was looked after by the financial 
support team from 2013 onwards. A debt advice service (DAS) supported Mr B with the 
management of the account since around 2014.
In March 2020, Mr B was made redundant and advised the DAS about this. They said that 
they contacted all Mr Bs creditors asking for a hold to be placed on his accounts and for 
them to accept no payment for a short while.
Santander has said it didnt receive this communication and first had contact from Mr Bs 
representative, Mrs B, on 15 June 2020. This was to advise that Mr B would be returning to 
work towards the end of July and she was advised to look on Santanders website for 
information about payment holidays.
Mr B put in an application for a payment holiday on 18 June, but received a response 
explaining he was ineligible because he was deceased. Mrs B got back in contact with 
Santander at the beginning of July because they had started to receive notices of sums in 
arrears, and interest and charges had started to be applied to the account. She advised 
Santander that payment would recommence in August 2020.
Mr B noticed a further interest payment of £29.41 was applied to the loan account in 
September 2020 and flagged this with Santander. Santander issued its first final response 
letter in November. This explained that they hadnt received any communication from the 
DAS in March and it would have been up to Mr B to approach them directly if he needed a 
payment holiday. They said that as the agreed payments were not received in April, the 
account was brought back into their normal collections process, so interest and fees started 
to reapply. But that these had since been refunded.
Following contact from the DAS on 13 October, in which a payment plan of £40.23 was 
offered and accepted, all interest and fees stopped and Mr B stopped receiving letters about 
arrears.
Santander issued another final response letter in February 2021 in which it said the £29.41 
of interest charged in September 2020 was incorrect and should not have been applied. As a 
result, it refunded this charge. It apologised for the payment holiday being declined due to  
Mr B being deceased and said this was an administrative error. It also offered £120 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
Mr B was unhappy with this. He wanted additional compensation for the stress and anxiety 
receiving the notice of sums in arrears caused. Our Investigator looked into the complaint 
and felt that as Santander had refunded all interest that had applied to the account and 
offered £120 compensation, this was a fair resolution to the complaint.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed, they felt that this situation had impacted them both and this hadnt 
fully been taken into consideration. As an informal agreement couldnt be reached, the case 
has been passed to me for a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think that what 
Santander has already offered is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. Ill explain why.
Mr B was made redundant in March 2020 and his DAS contacted his creditors to ask for a 
hold to be placed on his accounts. This is what Mr B thought had happened on his loan 
account with Santander. However, Santander has said it received no communication from 
the DAS in relation to this. Theres been mention of an online portal that the DAS has which 
Santander can access, but the DAS has said Santander didnt access it to read the 
communication in March. It isnt clear if an error has occurred here and if so, who has 
caused it. But even if I had enough information to agree that Santander made an error which 
caused it to miss the communication about Mr B being unable to make any payments in 
March, I dont think he has been disadvantaged as a result. Ill explain why.
Had Santander been told that Mr B had been made redundant and was unable to make 
payments to his loan account as per his agreed payment plan, his account would still have 
fallen into arrears. When this happens, Santander has said its normal policy is for the 
account to be moved out of the financial support team and back to the normal collections 
and recovery team after three missed payments. And interest and charges would then apply 
to the account again. In addition, because the account would then be in arrears, a bank 
would be expected to send a customer a notice of sums in arrears letter which details the 
overdue payments. And if payments continued to be missed then a bank would be expected 
to send a default notice to the customer.
I therefore think that Mr B is in the same position he would have been in, had Santander 
been made aware he was unable to meet his monthly payments on his agreed payment 
plan. He still would have been in arrears, his account would have been brought back to the 
normal collections and recoveries team, and he would have received interest and charges as 
well as arrears letters. So, I cant agree he is in a worse position as a result of any potential 
error.
I also note that Santander has refunded all interest that was charged on the account. The 
first interest charge was applied on 27 July 2020 and this was refunded the following day. It 
appears this was because of Santander being made aware that Mr B was in financial 
difficulties. Two further interest charges were applied on 25 September and 27 October, and 
Santander has recognised these should not have been applied in light of Mr Bs financial 
difficulties. The October charge was refunded the following day, but the September charge 
took around five months to be refunded. While all the interest charges have been refunded, 
so Mr B has not lost out financially as a result, I can understand that the delay in the 
September payment being refunded would have been a stressful situation for Mr B.
Mr B applied for a payment holiday online on 18 June 2020. Hes said he received an e-mail 
back saying that he was ineligible as he was deceased. Ive seen a copy of this letter, it says 
a payment holiday could not be processed for one of a few possible reasons, one of which 
being the account number relates to a deceased consumer. But it also lists another reason as your account is being managed by our collections and recoveries team. As Mr Bs 
account was being managed by the collections and recoveries team at the time he applied 
for a payment holiday, I dont think Santander has made an error in sending the letter or 
denying Mr B a payment holiday.
Mr B and his representative, Mrs B, have said they had to call Santander multiple times to let 
them know when payments would be reinstated and they had issues with Mrs B having 
authority to speak on behalf of Mr B. In addition to this, the first final response letter sent in 
November 2020, was only sent to Mr Bs online banking inbox, which Mr B has not had 
access to for some time, due to his account being with the financial support team. I can see 
theres been errors made by Santander which has made Mr Bs customer journey more 
difficult, and I do think this has caused him distress and inconvenience. I understand this has 
also been the case for Mrs B, but as Mr B is the account holder, I can only take his distress 
and inconvenience into consideration. Having done so, I do agree that the £120 already 
offered is fair in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Santander to increase this.   
My final decision
I think the £120 compensation previously offered by Santander UK Plc is fair in the 
circumstances. This should now be paid if it has not been already.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman