DRN-1861957
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund disputed cash withdrawals made from 
his account.  
What happened
Mr S says that fraudulent cash machine withdrawals totalling £5,850 were made from his 
Santander current account between 27 July 2019 and the 1 August 2019. 
Mr S says that on the 15 July 2019 he attempted to make a withdrawal but incorrectly 
entered his PIN on three occasions. Out of frustration he destroyed his debit card before 
walking into a local branch and requesting a new debit card and PIN. 
Mr S explains that he lives in a large Edwardian style building with multiple flats and he 
doesnt have his own post box  instead post is put through the letter box and distributed 
between the residents. And at the time of the disputed transaction he was away from his 
home address on holiday. He explains that on returning to his home address he hadnt 
received his PIN or debit card  which were sent to his home address. Santander said 
they expected these to arrive on the 22 and 24 July 2019 respectively.
Santander investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawals. They said there 
was no evidence of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr S had authorised the withdrawals or 
made them himself because:
There was no balance check until the 30 July 2019.
They viewed the CCTV and thought it looked similar to Mr S.
Mr S explained he was on holiday at the time of the disputed transactions but was 
unable to provide evidence.
They think its unusual for a fraudster to carry out the withdrawals in branch.
The transactions were carried out by via chip and PIN.
 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude that the withdrawals had been made fraudulently and was persuaded 
they were most likely made and authorised by Mr S. 
Mr S responded to say:
Hes not satisfied that the evidence Santander provided shows there wasnt a 
balance enquiry prior to the first transaction.
Why havent Santander provided a full copy of the CCTV?
The fraudster saying he was withdrawing the funds for a holiday is just a coincidence.
There was a transaction attempted after he reported the disputed withdrawals. 
He thinks the fraudster withdrawing £1,200  half of the deposit a week before  was 
a coincidence. 
Our investigator asked Mr S whether he had any evidence he was on holiday at the time of 
the disputed transactions or evidence for the funds that came into his account on the 
20 July 2019, which he explained was from a job. Mr S said he didnt think it was fair for him 
to be asked to provide this evidence at a late stage in the investigation and he wouldnt be 
providing any further supporting documents. 
As Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Santander can hold Mr S liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable  Santander to hold him liable. So I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr S consented to the 
withdrawals being made.
For a fraudster to carry out the disputed withdrawals theyve have needed access to the 
Mr Ss card and PIN. Santander have provided evidence that these were posted to Mr Ss 
address, and Mr S has explained that he lives in a large Edwardian style building which has 
multiple flats  and his post is delivered through the letter box rather than being placed in 
individual secure post boxes.  For this reason Im satisfied that is plausible a fraudster could 
have obtained both Mr Ss card and PIN. But I also need to decide what I think on balance 
most likely occurred. And from looking at the evidence I think its more likely than not Mr S 
either carried out or consented to the withdrawals. I say this because:
Santander have provided our service with stills from the CCTV taken at the time of 
the withdrawals carried out in branch. And one from when Mr S visited the branch on 
the 11 July 2019 to change his address. Mr S insists he didnt carry out the 
withdrawals, but from looking at the evidence provided by Santander I think its 
inconclusive as to whether its Mr S in the images. Mr S is unhappy that Santander 
havent provided the full CCTV evidence to our service, but I think its unlikely this will 
prove any more definitive than what weve already received. I say this because Mr S 
didnt have to make the withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under 
the relevant rules. He can still be held responsible for them if he authorised the use 
of his card.
Mr S explains that he was on holiday and away from his home address at the time of 
the disputed withdrawals. But despite being asked both by the bank and our 
investigator hes been unable to provide any evidence to support this. Mr S has also 
failed to provide supporting evidence for the £2,400 transferred into his account prior 
to the disputed withdrawals.
Its surprising that a fraudster wouldnt carry out a balance check at the first available 
opportunity. This suggests whoever carried out the transactions knew the balance of 
Mr Ss account. Its an unusual pattern of transactions for a fraudster. Id normally expect an 
opportunistic fraudster to withdraw as much money as possible, in as short a time as 
possible. I think its surprising after withdrawing £1,200 on the 27 July 2019 they 
waited another three days before withdrawing a sum of over £300 again. 
 
Mr S responded to our investigators view with a number of points. These included the 
fraudster saying he was withdrawing the funds for a holiday and deciding to withdraw half of 
the amount recently deposited, was likely a coincidence. I dont disagree with Mr S here  I 
think its possible that both of these situations were coincidences. But this doesnt change 
my conclusion regarding what most likely happened  for the reasons Ive explained above. 
Mr S also said, if hed carried out the disputed withdrawals, why was a failed cash 
withdrawal attempted the day after he asked Santander to block his card? I agree with Mr S 
that it seems surprising that he or someone hed authorised would attempt to carry out a 
withdrawal after they were aware the card was cancelled. But its not for me to determine 
why this occurred, instead I need to look at all the evidence provided  including this 
attempted transaction - and reach a conclusion on balance as to what I think most likely 
happened. And for the reasons Ive explained above I think its more likely than not Mr S 
authorised the disputed withdrawals. It follows that Santander is entitled to hold him liable for 
them.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman