DRN-4522374
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money she lost in an 
investment scam.
What happened
What Mrs S says:
Mrs S opened a new account with Monzo in September 2022. She became interested in 
investing in cryptocurrency and noticed a trader was advertising on social media. He 
contacted her and persuaded her to invest in cryptocurrency. The scammer then asked her 
to open a crypto wallet account so she could buy cryptocurrency. The scammer promised 
returns of 100% daily  and USD7,000 weekly.
The money was to be sent to Mrs S crypto wallet and then to be invested in crypto 
currencies. Mrs S cashed in her ISA, sent funds to her Monzo account, and then to her 
crypto wallet as shown:
Date Payment Amount
4 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £6,000
6 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £50
12 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £1,000
12 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £100
14 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £618
15 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £120
16 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £630
18 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £800
18 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £20
18 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £100
20 October 2022 Faster payment  crypto wallet £300
Total loss £9,738
The scammer closed one social media chat down and advised Mrs S to use another one. 
Mrs S then tried to withdraw some of the money but was told she couldnt. She then realised 
she had been scammed and contacted Monzo on 11 November 2022.
Mrs S lost all of her savings. She said she is now having to use food banks and is suffering 
from depression and anxiety. 
Mrs S says Monzo shouldve done more to protect her. She opened an account with Monzo 
with the intention of using it for crypto trading. She says Monzo should refund the money 
shes lost, plus 8% per annum interest.
What Monzo said:
Monzo declined Mrs S complaint and said:
- The payments were sent to a crypto wallet in Mrs S name, and from there, the 
money was sent to the scammer. So  the loss occurred at that stage and not when 
Monzo made the payments.
- Monzo contacted the recipient bank on 16 November 2022, but no funds remained.
- They apologised for not dealing with Mrs S complaint within 15 days and for that, 
paid compensation of £20.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs S brought her complaint to us. Our investigator upheld it and said:
- Monzo shouldve intervened in the first payment of £6,000 but didnt.
- Monzo sent a warning message to Mrs S when she made the first payment, but it 
wasnt sufficient,
- Monzo shouldve intervened as the account was only opened in September 2022, 
and the payment was unusual for the account. 
- If Monzo had intervened, they wouldve found out the payment had all the hallmarks 
of a crypto currency scam.
- He said Monzo should refund all of the money from the first payment onwards, less 
50%.
- He said Mrs S should bear 50% of the losses because the returns promised were too 
good to be true; the scammer kept moving social media platforms; the social media 
platforms werent trading sites; Mrs S didnt do sufficient research e.g. finding out if 
the scammer had trading experience and was authorised and registered.
Neither Monzo nor Mrs S agreed. Mrs S said the scammer had thousands of followers on 
the social media site; he was able to answer her questions; he spent hours gaining Mrs S 
trust  she thought she was doing the right thing.
Monzo said the earnings promised were too good to be true; legitimate traders dont operate 
over social media platforms; the investment website had warnings against it; Monzo had 
made best efforts to warn Mrs S; and the payments had been made to her own account (her 
crypto wallet).
So  the complaint has come to me to make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs S has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that she 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mrs S didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, she is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. Monzo hasnt signed up to the Code, but they follow its principles. That 
said, it applies to faster payments made to another UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payments were made by Mrs S to her own crypto wallet. So it doesnt apply in this case. I 
have therefore looked at this complaint using general Authorised Push Payment 
considerations.
I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs S when 
she made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have considered 
the position carefully.
The first consideration here is: if the payments were of a sufficient size and were out of 
character with how Mrs S normally used her account  then we would expect Monzo to have 
intervened and spoken to her about them. 
I looked at Mrs S account - and it was opened in September 2022  only a few days before 
the first payment of £6,000 on 4 October 2022. Mrs S had advised Monzo that the purpose 
of opening the account was cryptocurrency trading. And  the payment of £6,000 was 
preceded by two credits of £5,000 and £1,005 a few days before.
Taking all that into account, I think its reasonable to say that Monzo shouldve considered 
the first payment as suspicious and contacted Mrs S about it  but didnt. 
Monzo was the expert in such matters and if theyd intervened, held the payments and 
contacted Mrs S we would have expected them to ask open questions such as:- Why are you making the payment?
- Who to?
- For what purpose?
- How did you hear about the investment?
- How were you contacted about it?
- Where did the money come from that youre investing?
- What do you know about bitcoin investing?
- Have you made bitcoin investments before?
- How were you given the bank account details where the money was to be paid to?
- Have you given control on your devices to anyone else?
If they had, theyd have found out that Mrs S had made contact though a social media 
platform; that she had no investment experience; and she had been asked to open a crypto 
wallet account. These were all signs of a crypto scam. Its therefore likely that the scam 
wouldve been uncovered and the first, and subsequent payments not made.
I considered the online warning sent to Mrs S  but these were for a safe account scam,  
not an investment scam. So, I dont consider it as being sufficient.
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mrs S own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within her control should have satisfied Monzo 
that she wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, firms like Monzo had, or 
ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that 
a customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
So, I consider Monzo is liable to refund the payments of £9,738 in the first instance.
Contributory Negligence:
But thats not the end of the story here. I also considered whether Mrs S couldve done more 
to protect herself and whether she should therefore reasonably share some of her losses. 
And I think she should. I say that as:
- She had no investment experience  and didnt seek any independent advice from a 
qualified or trusted advisor.
- The promised returns of 100% per day were clearly too good to be true  any 
reasonable person wouldve considered that to be the case.
- I couldnt see any evidence that Mrs S had researched the trading platform  for 
example, it doesnt appear on the FCA website at all. Monzo showed us warnings 
about the trader firm on a google search.
- She traded using social media platforms  which wasnt a wise thing to do.
- I couldnt see she got evidence that the payments were being received into crypto 
currencies, but continued making payments.
For all these reasons, I think its reasonable that Mrs S shares 50% of her losses with 
Monzo. 
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takesplace. I looked at whether Monzo took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost money. Here, I can see that Monzo didnt 
contact the recipient bank for five days after Mrs S contacted them  this was too long.
Having said that, its in the nature of such scams that money is removed within minutes, or 
hours of receipt  so its unlikely any funds wouldve been recovered in any case.
Putting things right
Monzo should refund £4,869 plus interest of 8% per annum simple.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
- Refund to Mrs S £4,869, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman