DRN-4092117
The complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over £133,000 she lost to an 
investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Ms C authorised the disputed payments she made to her Coinbase 
wallet from her HSBC account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials 
provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Ms C from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
It isnt in dispute that some of the payments Ms C made were unusual given they did 
trigger the banks fraud prevention systems and were automatically blocked pending 
further enquiry  such as the £3,000 payment she made to Coinbase on 7 April 2022. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether the bank went far enough in all the 
circumstances with its intervention.
When HSBC spoke to Ms C on 7 April 2022, it established that she was sending money 
to Coinbase in order to invest. She said that no one had helped set her account up and 
that she had done everything herself. She also said that nobody had advised her to 
move her funds to a different account, nobody had told her to lie to the bank, and said 
she was investing as she knew a few friends who were doing the same thing. In light of 
the answers Ms C gave, I dont think HSBC had great cause to suspect that she was 
falling victim to a scam, although having heard the questions HSBC asked, I accept that 
it could have gone further in its questioning. But even accepting this as the case, Im not 
persuaded that any such further questioning or scam warning would have ultimately 
uncovered the scam or prevented Ms C from making the payments.
I say this because HSBC did warn Ms C about the risks of cryptocurrency scams. She 
asked whether Coinbase was trustworthy, and the HSBC representative said that it was 
not, as it was extremely susceptible to scams and he had seen many instances of people 
falling victim to a scam through Coinbase. He asked her to consult her friends, but Ms C 
said she was transferring money to herself and was happy to proceed with the payment. 
Ms C said she had previously carried out her own research, and had also been 
introduced to the investment through a friend. She hadnt been cold called or 
approached out of the blue (which is often the case with cryptocurrency scams). Ms C 
said the scammer had not asked her to transfer him any money and said he had no 
access to her Coinbase account. So, there wouldve been less cause to suspect she was 
being scammed in these circumstances, as it didnt bear many of the hallmarks that are 
often associated with cryptocurrency scams. 
The scam Ms C fell victim to was sophisticated and quite different to common 
cryptocurrency scams. She was not sending cryptocurrency from her Coinbase wallet to 
another individuals wallet, for example, and was instead paying it into a mining pool. As 
a result, even if HSBC could have asked more probing questions and given further 
warnings about cryptocurrency scams, Im not persuaded this would have likely led Ms C 
to realise she was falling victim to scam or ultimately prevented her loss. And with this 
being the case, Im not persuaded that any further interventions for subsequent 
payments made to Coinbase would have likely prevented the scam either. 
Ive also considered whether HSBC did enough to try and recover the funds from the 
receiving account after the fraud was reported. However, given we know the money was 
transferred out of Ms Cs Coinbase account, there would have been no prospect of 
HSBC recovering any money. HSBC are also under no obligation to refund the money to 
Ms C under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) either, as the Code only 
applies to transfers made to another person. In this instance, the payments were made 
to Ms Cs own account, so the CRM Code would not apply.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Ms C, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that HSBC can fairly or 
reasonably be held liable for her loss in these circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman