DRN-3811832
The complaint
Mr G complains that Pepperstone Limited caused him to lose money on his trading account.
What happened
Mr G opened an account with Pepperstone in July 2021. He says he didnt think it did 
enough to explain how the platform worked. In September 2021, on two occasions, Mr G 
was trying to partially close his US30 positions however full positions were closed. Mr G 
complained on each occasion because he said he didnt authorise full closure of the 
positions.
Pepperstone explained that it acted on his instructions, and the instructions it had from Mr G 
were to close the full positions. So it felt it hadnt done anything wrong. It did acknowledge 
that some of the information it gave over the phone wasnt correct, but as it wasnt followed it 
didnt make a difference to Mr Gs position. 
Mr G also complains that Pepperstone allowed him to continue trading when it was aware he 
had issues with its platform and he told them he was suffering from anxiety due to the 
losses. Hes said throughout that he didnt get the support he expected. Pepperstone set Mr 
Gs account to close only in October 2021.
Our Investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said the following:
- Pepperstone has provided evidence to show that Mr Gs answers to its 
appropriateness assessment meant it wasnt unreasonable that his account was 
approved and he was allowed to trade.
- Pepperstone had met its regulatory obligations when allowing Mr G to open an 
account with it.
- Theres no evidence Mr G told Pepperstone he was suffering from anxiety due to 
using its services until October 2021, and it took action as a result.
- The evidence shows that Mr G placed the orders that were executed and its likely he 
made an error, rather than Pepperstone. And whilst incorrect information was given, 
this didnt impact Mr Gs position as he didnt follow those instructions.
- Pepperstone provides an execution only service and it was for Mr G to understand 
how to make trades before doing so. Pepperstone was available when Mr G called 
and dealt with his queries. It also told him that it couldnt place trades on his behalf.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision. He reiterated the calls 
hed had with Pepperstone and asserts that it wasnt his fault his positions closed fully and 
that it was due to incorrect information from Pepperstone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Appropriateness
Pepperstone is required by its regulator  the FCA  to determine whether its appropriate to 
offer a spread betting account to someone before they approve the application. The 
regulations can be found at COBS 10. Pepperstone has provided us with its assessment 
questions and Mr Gs answers when he applied for the account. Mr G said that he had over 
12 months trading experience in spread betting and said he frequently traded without advice. 
He also said he was employed earning between £50,000 and £89,999 per year and that he 
intended to fund trading through his salary.
Mr Gs answers to Pepperstones assessment meant it was considered appropriate for him, 
based on his experience, to open an account. I can see that Pepperstone also provided the 
relevant risk warnings for Mr Gs spread betting account. Whilst Mr G was waiting for his 
account to be approved, he called Pepperstone. The agent told Mr G how to find certain 
tools in his client area and how to open a demo account so he had a chance to familiarise 
himself with the platform prior to making trades.
Im satisfied that Pepperstone met its regulatory obligations in allowing Mr G to open an 
account, and it provided him with educational tools when he wasnt sure how to use the 
platform which is what Id expect it to do. Whilst Ive listened to one call Mr G had where it 
sounded as if he wasnt quite sure about how leverage works (although he confirmed that he 
did), Im satisfied that this hasnt made a difference here. Its clear that his trading history 
showed he understood the risks of spread betting, as did the activity and later phone calls 
where he understood how to release some of his margin. So, Im satisfied Pepperstone has 
met its regulatory obligations in allowing Mr G to open his account.
The closed trades
Mr Gs main complaint is around two trades he made on 1 September 2021 and 27 
September 2021. Mr G has said on both occasions he was trying to only partially close the 
position to release some of his margin, but on each occasion the full position closed. This 
caused him to lose money.
Ill first address the trade on 1 September 2021. Mr G says he had a position with a stake of 
£2.00 and he wanted to modify this position to hold a stake of £1.80  so in effect reduce the 
stake by 10%. Mr G says this is what he attempted to do, but then saw that his full position 
had closed. I have listened to the calls with Pepperstone around when this happened, and I 
can understand Mr Gs strength of feeling. Its clear that he didnt intend to close his full 
position. However, Ive considered the evidence that Pepperstone has provided. And Im 
persuaded by this that the instructions Mr G gave was to close the full positions. Essentially 
the order data shows that the order that was executed was identical to the request Mr G 
made. I appreciate that Mr G may not have intended for this to happen, but Ive seen nothing 
to suggest Pepperstone was at fault here.
The trade on 27 September 2021 was made following a phone call with Pepperstone in the 
early hours of the morning. In this call Mr G asked Pepperstone how he could partially close 
a position. Pepperstone did everything it could to get Mr G through to the right person to 
help. Pepperstone advised Mr G to go onto the platform, click modify and then change the 
amount of the position. However, this was where some incorrect information was given  
Pepperstone told Mr G that he should put the amount that he wanted to reduce the position 
by rather than how much he wanted to keep.
It appears however that following this call, Mr G successfully sold the right amount of stake 
in US30 twice. But on the same day, he closed a full position with a stake of 15 which lost 
him a large amount of money. Mr G called Pepperstone as he said he followed incorrect 
information and it wasnt his intention to close that position.
Although incorrect information was given, the evidence I have shows Mr G requested to sell 
all 15 stakes in US30 in an instruction  which closed his position. I cant see that he even followed the incorrect instructions as this wouldve led him to partially closing the position, 
even at the wrong amount. But what Mr G did is request to fully close the position. I 
appreciate Mr G says he didnt do this, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that anything else 
happened here. A this point Mr G had made many trades, and it may have been that this 
was an error on his part, but I cant say that it was the fault of Pepperstone.
Changing Mr Gs account to close only
Following Mr Gs trades that he felt werent right, he told Pepperstone about the anxiety he 
was experiencing due to the trading losses hed experienced on its platform. This was on 1 
October 2021 as part of his complaint correspondence. Pepperstone said that due to his 
stress and anxiety hed told them about it would put his account on close only which stops 
Mr G opening any new positions.
I think this was reasonable action taken by Pepperstone. At this point Mr G had said he 
didnt understand the platform, felt there were errors being made, was confused and had 
anxiety caused by using the platform. I dont think Pepperstone acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in taking steps to ensure Mr G couldnt open any other positions, potentially in error, 
losing more money.
Ive noted that during Mr Gs complaint with Pepperstone it offered him a gesture of goodwill 
payment which Mr G didnt accept. As I dont think that Pepperstone has done anything 
wrong in this complaint, I wont be asking it to make any award for compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman