DRN-4438465
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a claim they made on their Financial & Legal Insurance 
Company Ltd (F&L) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs S say F&L treated them unfairly.
All references to F&L include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their F&L legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a 
claim against the seller of their property. They say the seller misrepresented that building 
regulation requirements had been complied with and that there were no outstanding building 
control issues to resolve in relation to an extension roof. 
F&L considered the claim and concluded that it wasnt covered under the contract section of 
the policy because there was no prior agreement for construction work between Mr and Mrs 
S and the seller of their property. Mr and Mrs S complained to F&L about this decision and 
pointed out that the claim they were making wasnt for an agreement for construction work 
but rather a misrepresentation, which caused them financial loss. 
F&L asked for further information and considered the claim again. This time they said the 
claim Mr and Mrs S were making didnt fall within the terms of the policy for the same reason 
given by the original claims handler and because the agreement between Mr and Mrs S 
wasnt an agreement for goods and services, as required by the contract section, so it wasnt 
covered. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator initially upheld Mr and Mrs S complaint. She said the exclusion F&L were 
relying on simply wasnt applicable in the circumstances and that F&L had misunderstood 
what was being claimed for. As such she said F&L should accept the claim and pay Mr and 
Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to them. 
F&L didnt agree with the investigators view. They said the claim doesnt amount to an 
insured incident under the contract section of the policy because the dispute is not about a 
contract for goods and services- its about a contract for the sale of a property which isnt the 
same thing. The investigator revised her view in light of this. She said that F&L were entitled 
to decline Mr and Mrs S claim on that basis, but that they should still pay them £250 for 
misunderstanding their claim from the outset. F&L agreed with the investigators view, but Mr 
and Mrs S did not.
Mr and Mrs S say the policy summary they received suggests this sort of claim should be 
covered, the policy is inconsistent in how it determines cover within the property and contract 
sections so should be read in their favour, the claim could be argued to fall within the 
property section of cover and the sale of property could be considered a consumer contract, 
which is covered. 
The investigator reviewed this but didnt agree. She said the summary of cover is subject to 
the full terms and conditions of the policy and the claim Mr and Mrs S are making doesnt 
appear to fall within those. She also said the property and contract sections of the policy 
were distinct and not intended to be read together for consistency. In addition, she said the 
claim Mr and Mrs S are making is for misrepresentation, which is a breach of contract claim 
that isnt covered by the policy because it doesnt relate to goods or services.
Mr and Mrs S dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint in the same way and for the 
same reasons set out by the investigator.
The starting point is the policy terms. The contract section of the policy says:
4. Contract Disputes
We will pay the Costs and Expenses for the pursuit or defence of Legal Proceedings relating 
to an agreement or alleged agreement that an Insured Person has entered into a personal 
capacity for the buying, selling or hiring in of any goods or services. Provided that the 
amount in dispute is more than £250.
Like the investigator, I agree that the contract Mr and Mrs S entered into wasnt for goods or 
services- it was for the purchase of a property. The dispute itself is for breach of the 
representations made by the seller in the sale of that property to Mr and Mrs S. And whilst 
goods or services are not defined by the policy, I cant reasonably say these would extend 
to a contract for the purchase of a property when the policy has separate cover for property 
disputes. I think this is applicable to Mr and Mrs S assertion that the sale of property could 
be considered a consumer contract. Even if it was, it wouldnt be covered for the same 
reasons Ive set out here- namely that the contracts section of the policy applies to goods or 
services and not property.
Because the claim relates to Mr and Mrs S property, Ive also gone on to consider whether 
cover is available under this section of the policy. The property section says:
11. Property Protection
We will pay the Costs and Expenses in relation to the pursuit of Legal Proceedings an 
Insured Person is able to pursue in respect of an Insured Property arising from a nuisance, a 
trespass, an unauthorised occupation or damage caused to the Insured Property by a third 
party. Provided that the amount in dispute is more than £250.
In this section the claim itself needs to be for damage caused to Mr and Mrs S property by a 
third party. Whilst I appreciate that they say the extension roof itself is in poor condition and 
needs considerable work, the claim they intend to make isnt for damage to it, its for 
misrepresentation by the seller for failing to comply with building regulations or ensure there 
were no outstanding building control issues to resolve. So, although the remedy theyre 
seeking might be the same as if theyd made a damage to property claim, I cant say that the 
claim itself is one that falls within cover. In addition, the damage itself wouldve needed to be 
caused to their property. As things stand, the work to the extension roof was completed 
whilst still in the sellers possession, presumably by contractors. So, the problems with the 
work to it occurred whilst the property was in the sellers ownership. Because of this I cant 
reasonably say any damage was caused to Mr and Mrs S property by a third party because they didnt own it when the work took place.
For the sake of completeness, I agree with the investigators view that the summary of cover 
Mr and Mrs S received is just that- a summary. The insurance itself is subject to the full 
terms and conditions applicable to it.  And the property and contract sections of cover arent 
intended to be read together; they are distinct sections so cant be interpreted 
interchangeably.  
F&L have agreed with the investigators view that they misunderstood Mr and Mrs S claim 
initially and that they turned down cover for the wrong reasons. They accept they should pay 
£250 to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience caused. I agree with that for 
the same reasons set out by the investigator and take the view that the award is adequate in 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Overall, and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the claim Mr and Mrs S are 
trying to make falls within any of the sections of cover in their legal expenses insurance 
policy. But I agree that Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd should pay Mr and Mrs S 
£250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by rejecting their claim for the wrong 
reasons.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint Mr and Mrs S complaint and direct Financial & Legal Insurance 
Company Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman