DRN-3632503
The complaint
Miss A complains QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) wrongly refused to provide legal expenses 
insurance (LEI) cover for her partner to pursue a claim for personal injury following a car 
accident, even though she was a named driver under her motor policy. And she was 
unhappy with the way in which the insurance claim was handled.
Where I refer to QIC, this includes their agents and claims handlers acting on their behalf.
What happened
In May 2020 Miss A bought car insurance, under which she was the primary driver and her 
partner was a named driver, through a broker. She took out LEI as an optional extra. QIC 
were the insurer for the LEI cover.
The policy began in early June 2020. In May 2021, Miss A and her partner were involved in 
a non-fault car accident. Miss A was driving at the time. They were put in touch with a firm of 
solicitors to pursue a legal claim for personal injury. The solicitors said Miss As partner 
would need to meet her own legal costs. When Miss A queried the position with QIC, they 
said the LEI didnt extend to her partner, as she wasnt driving the car when the accident 
happened.
Miss A disputed that. She spent a lot of time on calls getting hold of her policy documents 
and trying to resolve things. She complained about QICs refusal to cover her partners claim 
and about the service they provided. QIC said the LEI cover only applied for authorised 
drivers when they were driving the car. QIC acknowledged thered been confusion about the 
extent of cover during calls Miss A had had with them and offered £30 compensation. Since 
Miss A didnt agree, she brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
Our investigator agreed the LEI policy didnt cover Ms As partner but thought an increased 
offer of £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by QICs poor service 
was fair to resolve the complaint. Since Miss A didnt agree, her complaints been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules, wed expect an insurer to handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably reject a claim made by a customer. The starting 
point for considering whether an insurer has acted reasonably is the policy wording.
The LEI cover Miss A opted to buy with her motor insurance had its own terms and 
conditions and definitions. Subject to the terms and conditions, the policy provided cover for 
legal costs in relation to the insured events it set out. 
The relevant event here was uninsured loss recovery. The policy said, Following a road 
accident we will pay legal costs to negotiate a recovery of your uninsured losses from 
the person who was to blame for the accident.
Uninsured losses were defined as Any loss which an insured person is not able to 
recover under their motor insurance policy, which arises directly out of a road accident. 
Insured person and You/your were defined as the person named as the policyholder 
on the schedule, who has a motor insurance policy held under their name; and any 
authorised driver of the insured vehicle at the time of the incident.
Since Miss A was the policyholder named on the policy schedule with motor insurance in her 
name, she was covered under the LEI policy whether she was driving or not. The issue is 
whether her partner was an authorised driver of the insured vehicle at the time of the 
incident.
Miss A argues that since her partner was a named driver under the motor policy, she was an 
authorised driver under the LEI policy at the time the accident happened - it didnt matter 
whether or not she was driving the vehicle at the time of the accident. But the LEI policy was 
separate from the motor policy. And it only provided cover for people other than Miss A if 
they were authorised to drive the vehicle, and were actually driving it, when the accident 
happened. I think the policy set things out sufficiently clearly. Since Miss As partner was a 
passenger, I dont think she was covered. And it wasnt unreasonable for QIC to decline the 
claim. 
Miss A had some difficulties accessing her policy documents on-line. She spoke to various 
QIC representatives on several occasions to discuss her concerns and her complaint. They 
took time to answer her queries and provided some inaccurate information about cover. That 
will have been frustrating, especially when Miss A felt the claim for her partners legal costs 
ought to have been covered. I think the £100 QIC offered to pay, after shed brought her 
complaint to us, is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.  
Putting things right
QIC should pay Miss A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I direct QIC Europe Ltd to pay Miss A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 September 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman