DRN-3403221
The complaint
Mr H complained that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
irresponsibly provided him with unaffordable loans.
What happened
118 118 Money provided Mr H with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repayment
1 22/07/2019 £1,000 12 months £102.55
2 11/02/2020 £2,309 24 months £137.14
3 27/04/2020 £2,000 24 months £160.20
When Mr H complained to 118 118 Money it didnt uphold his complaint so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint. After completing her 
investigation, ultimately she didnt think that 118 118 Money had done anything wrong when  
it provided the loans. Our adjudicator explained why she was recommending that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.   
Through his representative, Mr H disagreed with our adjudicators view. He mainly said that 
he didnt agree that loan 3 was affordable and the increase in his unsecured balances and 
his use of his overdraft was enough evidence to 118 118 Money that he was struggling. 
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint and it came to me to decide. I issued 
a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
When Mr H took out loan 2 this was used to repay the balance on loan 1 and provide him 
with an additional £1,750. As far as I can see, Mr H hasnt objected to what our adjudicator 
said with respect to not upholding his complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need 
to say more about loans 1 and 2 except that Ive reviewed these loans and independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator. I havent seen enough to say that 118 118 
Money shouldnt have provided these loans  so Im not upholding this part of Mr Hs 
complaint.
Looking at loan 3, I can see that 118 118 Money gathered some information from Mr H about 
his income and expenses before it agreed the loan. It said it completed industry standard 
verification checks to validate the information Mr H provided and it checked his credit file to 
understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 118 118 Money 
recorded information showing that Mr Hs monthly income was around £2,300 and after 
allowing for his declared monthly outgoings of £1,050, which included an amount £100 to 
cover his existing credit commitments,118 118 Money said the loan monthly repayments 
looked comfortably affordable out of his disposable income.
The credit checks 118 118 Money carried out showed that Mr H wasnt involved in any sort 
of arrangement with creditors and bankruptcy wasnt flagged up. He had no active county 
court judgements registered and no significant recent defaults on his record. 
I think its fair to say it looks like Mr H was paying more than the £100 hed declared to 118 
118 Money to service his debt  his existing credit commitments appear to have included a 
loan account costing him £116 as well as the £137 per month he would continue to pay for 
loan 2. It isnt clear from the credit report I've seen whether Mr H was also paying another 
loan costing him £137 per month or whether this entry also refers to loan 2  but it makes no 
overall difference as this still shouldve been affordable for Mr H.
He had a number of active credit card accounts and some were a few pounds over their 
account limit, but I dont think these small amounts were enough to cause a responsible 
lender to think this amounted to evidence of serious money problems. 
In April 2020 it looks like Mr H had cleared the £596 overdraft shown for the month before. 
So whilst it was evident that Mr H was making use of his overdraft at the bank from time to 
time, it didnt look like he was consistently overdrawn. In February 2020, the current account 
balance showed he wasnt using his overdraft facility that month either. And in any event, he 
was well within his £630 arranged overdraft limit in the run up to taking out this loan (and 
I can see this remained the case in the months that followed). So I dont think his overdraft 
usage shouldve caused 118 118 Money to be unduly concerned or that this is a reason for 
me to uphold the complaint.  
Whilst the credit checks 118 118 Money obtained showed that Mr H had previously had 
some money problems, I think its fair to say that all the information 118 118 Money had 
gathered tended to suggest that Mr H seemed to be managing his credit without any signs 
that he had a serious debt problem. It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type 
of lending to have other debt  and sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these 
wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons to decline a loan application. I dont think the overall 
amount of debt shown on Mr Hs credit checks was excessive having regard to his income or 
that anything else revealed in the credit checks 118 118 Money carried out was enough for 
me to say that a responsible lender shouldve realised it needed to find out more before 
lending or that it should have refused the loan application altogether. It was fair for 118 118 Money to decide Mr Hs lending application based on the information it 
was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. I dont think it was unreasonable for 118 118 
Money to provide loan 3  especially as there wasnt anything obvious, in the information it 
had, to suggest Mr H wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way. The loan 
appeared to be affordable looking at Mr Hs income and expenditure. And I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required 118 118 Money to probe any more deeply into 
Mr Hs finances or ask Mr H to prove what he was declaring (by requiring him to send in his 
bank statements for instance) or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
the lender (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. 
So for these reasons, Im not upholding loan 3. 
I accept that Mr Hs actual circumstances possibly werent fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information 118 118 Money obtained. But in order to 
uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. In this case, 
I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mr H. 
And I havent seen enough to make me think that 118 118 Money acted towards Mr H in any 
other way that wasnt fair and reasonable.
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr H but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. If Mr H would like help to manage 
his spending theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other support 
on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
I have heard nothing further from Mr H and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
118 118 Money has accepted what I've said in my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
As no further comments have been received in response to my provisional decision that 
change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman