DRN-3148293
The complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement by Vauxhall Finance plc. (VF).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
Mr M entered into two contracts, one to buy the car and another to obtain finance. The only 
contract which falls within my power to consider is the finance agreement with VF. 
Mr M says he was pressurised to make the purchase as the dealer was due to close down. 
He signed a conditional sale agreement in order to fund the purchase. He says that he 
changed his mind within a few days and before the car was ready to collect. The finance 
agreement had a 14-day cancellation period so it was open to him to have cancelled it if he 
wished. 
However, if he had cancelled the finance agreement with VF, but hadnt been able to cancel 
the agreement to buy the car then he would have had to have obtained alternative funding. 
He says he called VF to ask it to put off the purchase. However, VF was not responsible for 
the purchase. The agreement Mr M had for the purchase of the car was with the dealer and 
not with VF which was simply providing the funding. The dealer and VF are separate entities.
I have read the agreement and the terms are set out clearly and it reminded him to ensure 
he read them and was satisfied that he wished to be bound by the terms. Mr M says he was 
hurried due to dealer closing down, but I  note the car was due for collection four days later 
so it seems that the there was some time for him to consider what he was signing before 
committing himself to the agreement.
It was open to Mr M to ensure he was satisfied with the terms of the agreement and the car 
before signing. He may well have been encouraged to complete the deal on the day, but he 
could have walked away if he wasnt sure.
He has also said that the car didnt have a service book and a spare key he assumed that it 
did have these. I have seen nothing to show that the dealer said that the car had both of 
these items and so I cannot say that he was misled. He has stressed the importance of 
these items and so I would have expected him to have ensured they were present.
While I have every sympathy with Mr M I cannot safely conclude that VF did anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman