DRN-2224110
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited administered his travel insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr H had held an annual travel insurance policy, alongside home insurance for around 10 
years. When he took out the policy and for each renewal afterwards, the insurance contract 
provided travel cover for policyholders up to 80 years old.
However, a month before Mr Hs 2019 renewal was due to take place, Aviva sent Mr H 
information about important changes to the policy. It said the upper age limit for travel 
insurance cover would now be 75 years old. The price of Mr Hs policy quote had also 
increased substantially from the previous policy year.
Mr H was unhappy with Avivas decision. He felt itd compromised his ability to obtain 
competitively-priced, alternative travel insurance, given his age. And hed relied on the policy 
continuing to run until he was 80. He also felt Aviva was discriminating against him on the 
grounds of age. He was also unhappy because Aviva did offer travel cover on corporate 
policies which provided cover for policyholders up to the age of 80. So he asked us to look 
into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had treated Mr H unfairly. She explained that the policy 
was annually renewable, which meant that Aviva was entitled to change the terms on which 
it offered cover. She didnt think Aviva had shown itd treated Mr H any differently to any of 
its other customers in Mr Hs circumstances. And she thought it was down to Aviva to decide 
what risks it wanted to insure and at what price.
Mr H disagreed. In summary, he maintained that Aviva had prejudiced his chances of finding 
a competitively-priced policy elsewhere. And he told us that hed managed to take out new 
travel cover through his bank, which did cover him until he was 80 and which was also 
insured by Aviva. He also felt Aviva had induced him at the outset into taking out a policy 
which he thought would cover him until he was 80. And that it had misrepresented the cover 
available to him. He said hed have never taken out the policy or renewed it if hed known it 
wouldnt provide this level of cover.  
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mr H fairly. Ill explain why.
First, its important I explain that in this decision, Ill only be looking into whether it was fair 
for Aviva to lower its policy age limit and whether it was fair for Aviva to put up the price of 
Mr Hs policy. I appreciate Mr H feels Aviva mis-represented the policy cover when he took 
out the policy and that he was mid-sold cover at each subsequent renewal. However, these 
arent issues that Aviva dealt with in its final response to Mr Hs complaint. Aviva needs to be 
given a chance to look into these new issues before we can potentially investigate them.
 
Was it reasonable for Aviva to lower the policy age limit?
Theres no dispute that Mr Hs policy initially and for several years afterwards, provided 
cover for policyholders aged up until 80 years. I dont doubt how disappointing it mustve 
been for Mr H when Aviva let him know about this important change to his contract with it.
But we wont generally tell an insurer what factors it can take into account when its 
assessing the risk of a claim, either when a policys taken out or at renewal. An annual travel 
insurance policy is an annual contract, so an insurer is entitled to change the terms at 
renewal, so long as it communicates these changes clearly. And if a policyholders unhappy 
with the new terms, they can decide not to go ahead with the renewal. 
In 2019, Aviva made a commercial decision to lower the policy age limit on this particular 
policy. Ive seen evidence from Aviva which shows that the change in age limit did apply to 
this particular brand of travel insurance and was applied to all renewals. So Im satisfied that 
Aviva didnt single Mr H out unfairly or discriminate against him. And I dont think the fact that 
Aviva offers travel cover up to the age of 80 on other branded policies it insures means that 
changing its terms on this specific type of policy is unfair. So it follows that while I appreciate 
Mr H feels Aviva compromised his ability to obtain competitively priced cover elsewhere, Im 
not persuaded this was the case.   
Did Aviva work out the price of Mr Hs policy fairly?
As Ive set out above, we wont generally tell an insurer how it should assess risk, or what 
price it should charge to cover that. What we do look at though is whether or not an insurer 
has worked out a price fairly. Well check that its calculated a premium in the same way it 
would for any of its customers and that it hasnt singled a policyholder out in any way. 
Aviva has sent us information to show us what it took into account when it worked out Mr Hs 
2019 renewal premium. This information is highly sensitive to Avivas business, which 
means its confidential. So Im afraid I cant share this with Mr H. But Ive checked everything 
Avivas sent us thoroughly. I can tell Mr H that the main reason for the price rise was the 
overall change to Avivas pricing structure. 
Having looked at everything both parties have sent us, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Avivas unfairly singled Mr H out. Im satisfied it worked out his premium in line with its 
internal guidelines and that its treated him in the same way it wouldve treated any of its 
other customers in his circumstances. 
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I dont find Aviva has treated him unfairly. So I 
dont think its done anything wrong that it needs to put right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman