DRN-2622602
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that they were mis-sold two mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies by Newcastle Building Society (NBS).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought the first PPI policy in 1997. NBS told us that this was taken out in 
response to a mailshot sent out after Mr and Mrs G had taken out a mortgage in 1996. Mr 
and Mrs G then moved house in 1998, and took out a new mortgage with NBS. The first PPI 
policy was cancelled and a new one taken out alongside the new mortgage - this also looks 
as though it was sold by post. NBS said it didnt advise Mr and Mrs G to take out either 
policy. Mr and Mrs G said they thought the PPI was compulsory. 
The first policy provided accident and sickness cover for Mr and Mrs G at a monthly cost of 
£4.05. The monthly benefit was £177.38, split equally between Mr and Mrs G. If they had 
made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
The cost of the second policy isnt entirely clear  NBS has given different figures in the 
documents it sent in. However, the higher of the two figures was a monthly cost of £11.87, 
and this seems more likely based on the mortgage details. The monthly benefit was 
£418.94. Again, the policy provided accident and sickness cover for Mr and Mrs G, and 
couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint about the first policy should not be upheld, but the 
complaint about the second policy should. NBS disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the second policy but not the first. Ill 
explain why.
The 1997 policy
NBS had no documentation from the point of sale, which is not surprising given that the 
mortgage it covered was repaid in 1998 and businesses are not required to keep records 
indefinitely. However, it was able to provide a screenshot showing the start and end dates of 
the policy and the mortgage, and it said its records showed this policy as being sold in 
response to a mailshot. Mr and Mrs G sent in a copy of a letter from NBS dated October 
1997, which acknowledged receipt of the PPI application form and said that the policy details 
were enclosed  this seems to confirm that the sale was by post.
A second letter from NBS, provided by Mr and Mrs G and dated December 1995, confirmed 
that they had chosen not to take PPI when they originally applied for the mortgage. The sale 
of this first PPI policy took place some 18 months after Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage had 
started, so I think it wouldve been clear that they didnt have to have it to get the mortgage. 
And Ive no reason to think they didnt have a choice about it in 1997. 
NBS said it didnt advise Mr and Mrs G to take the policy, and Ive no reason to doubt that. 
So NBS didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. But it should still 
have given them enough information for them to make an informed choice.
I dont have a copy of the mailing that Mr and Mrs G wouldve received in 1997, so I cant 
say what policy information they wouldve been given. NBS sent in a copy of its PPI 
information leaflet in respect of the 1998 sale, and I think its likely that something similar 
wouldve formed part of the 1997 mailing, rather than the full policy document. NBS also sent 
in a copy of the 1997 policy document. 
The leaflet includes a summary of the main exclusions and limitations (and the policy 
document gives the full details), and I cant see that Mr and Mrs G wouldve been affected by 
any of these. The policy provided accident and sickness cover, so although Mr and Mrs G 
said that they were both self-employed at the time of the sale, they wouldnt have been 
affected by the limitation in the policy on unemployment claims for the self-employed. 
The leaflet also includes the cost per £100 benefit, so I think Mr and Mrs G wouldve had 
some idea of the cost for them. And based on their information about their circumstances at 
the time, theres nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for them. 
As Mr and Mrs G were self-employed at the point of sale, they wouldnt have had any 
employer-related sick pay. They mentioned having had some savings and another insurance 
policy, but couldnt give us details. So on the information I have, I think Mr and Mrs G 
couldve found it difficult to meet the mortgage payments if either had been off sick. And I 
think they could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was 
secured on their home. 
So although I cant know whether NBS clearly explained all of the policy details, I think Mr 
and Mrs G would still have bought the policy if it had - it couldve provided useful protection 
for them. This means I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
The 1998 policy
NBS was able to provide more information about the 1998 policy  it sent in copies of Mr and 
Mrs Gs mortgage application form, the PPI application form and the mortgage offer, along 
with copies of the PPI information leaflet and a more detailed summary of cover. 
I can see from the mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs G ticked a box to say that they 
didnt want PPI. The mortgage application, dated September 1998, was submitted to NBS 
through an intermediary. It seems that Mr and Mrs G later changed their minds about taking 
the cover, as they completed a PPI application form in October 1998, and the cover is shown 
on their mortgage offer dated November 1998. From all this Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs G 
had a choice about taking the PPI. 
Again, NBS said it didnt advise Mr and Mrs G to take the policy, so it didnt need to make 
sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G. But it should still have given them enough 
information for them to make an informed choice. In this case, I dont think it did. As I mentioned earlier, NBS sent in a copy of its PPI information leaflet from 1998. It also 
sent in a more detailed summary of cover, as part of the policy information which seems to 
have been sent to Mr and Mrs G on completion of the mortgage in December 1998.
As Ive said, the leaflet includes a summary of the main exclusions and limitations  but it 
doesnt include all of the details. The policy terms were slightly different to those in 1997 - in 
1998 the definitions listed in the more detailed summary of cover included the following 
wording:
Disabled means being unable to work at Your normal occupation (or at any Job which You 
are reasonably able to do, given Your experience, education or training) because of an 
accident or sickness. If You are Self-employed, You cannot be receiving any form of 
payment or be helping, managing or carrying on any part of the running of the business 
while You are disabled and Disability shall be construed accordingly (my emphasis).
Mr and Mrs G were still self-employed in 1998. I consider that the requirements shown in this 
definition were onerous and would have limited their ability to claim on the policy. This 
information was not included in the PPI information leaflet, so I cant see that Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve been made aware of it before they decided to take out the policy. And I dont think 
they wouldve chosen to take out the PPI if they had understood that their ability to claim on 
it was limited in this way. I also note the limitation was not particularly prominent  it was 
included in the definitions rather than in the sections stating the main exclusions and 
limitations.
Overall, from the evidence I have, I am not satisfied that Mr and Mrs G wouldve taken out 
the policy in 1998 if they had been properly informed. As a result I have concluded that this 
element of their complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
NBS should put Mr and Mrs G in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out the 
second PPI policy in 1998. The policy has been cancelled, so NBS should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G the amount they paid each month for the PPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs G made a successful claim under this PPI policy, NBS can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount it owes them. NBS can also take off the amount already 
refunded in relation to commission.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NBS to take off tax from this interest. NBS must give Mr and Mrs 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about the 
PPI policy they took out in 1998, but not their complaint about the policy they took out in 
1997. Newcastle Building Society should pay them the compensation Ive described. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman