DRN-3018504
The complaint
Mr M complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined a claim on his 
contents insurance policy for damage to his TV.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his contents insurance policy after a television was knocked off its 
stand. His TV was collected for repairs, but Mr M said it returned with damage to the casing. 
Mr M found his insurer very difficult to contact as the online portal wouldnt work and it was 
only taking emergency calls. 
Mr M said his claim was declined and hes unhappy with the service he received from 
Admiral. He wants his claim upholding as the damage was clearly accidental.
Admiral said Mr M had reported a claim for accidental damage to his TV. Hed explained his 
cat had knocked the TV to the floor and when hed powered it on, half of the screen was 
black.
Admiral said itd appointed its approved supplier to assess the damage. They noted the LED 
lights were failing due to age but there was no sign of any impact damage. Admiral said it 
didnt agree its supplier had returned the TV with further damage. And unless Mr M could 
provide evidence showing the fault was due to an insured peril, it couldnt accept his claim.
Admiral apologised if Mr M had found it difficult to get in touch. Itd been dealing with both 
the covid-19 situation and adverse weather claims. And thatd prevented some customers 
from speaking to it. Admiral accepted it hadnt sent an email to Mr M after saying it would. 
And itd paid Mr M £50 compensation for any trouble and upset. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Admirals response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He understood Mr Ms frustration. But he didnt think 
Admiral had acted unreasonably or made a mistake. 
Our investigator said Mr Ms policy didnt cover loss or damage caused gradually such as 
wear and tear. He appreciated Mr M said hed only bought the TV a couple of years earlier. 
But it wasnt unreasonable for Admiral to rely on its experts report. It said there wasnt any 
evidence of accidental damage and the only failure was due to wear. And Mr M hadnt 
provided any evidence that showed otherwise.
Our investigator was satisfied Admiral had followed its procedures properly. Hed seen two 
final responses and a copy of the report which had all been correctly addressed to Mr M. 
And he felt the £50 compensation paid by Admiral was fair for the difficulties Mr M had 
experienced. So he wouldnt be asking Admiral to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He had a copy of a recording where Admiral accepted the damage to the 
TV was caused by an accident. And he didnt believe Admiral had sent him the letters and 
report. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how frustrating Mr M has found this situation. His TV was knocked over by his cat 
and he feels Admiral should accept his claim for accidental damage. He expected Admiral to 
keep him updated at every stage of his claim, but he had to keep chasing his insurer. And 
hes upset his claim was declined. So Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr M and 
Admiral have said to see if the insurer has done anything wrong.
Mr Ms contents insurance policy includes cover for accidental damage. But there are a 
number of exclusions, including damage that happens gradually  such as general wear. 
Mr M says the TV worked perfectly before it was knocked to the floor. And thatd clearly 
been accidental. So he doesnt feel Admiral should decline his claim because another 
company said the TV wasnt working for a different reason.
Ive listened to the call between Mr M and Admiral where he feels Admiral accepted his 
explanation of whatd happened but still wouldnt pay the claim. The call handler explained 
that he isnt saying Mr M is lying about whatd happened. But the insurer has to rely on the 
experts assessment that the fault isnt consistent with accidental damage.
I realise Mr M says he only bought the TV a couple of years ago. And he feels it would be 
unusual for the screen to have failed so quickly. So Ive looked at the report sent by the 
specialist repairers to Mr M. The report states the TV had no obvious external damage to the 
casing or signs of damage to the screen. However there was a shadow on half of the screen 
when the TV was powered on. An internal inspection showed it was free from impact 
damage. So the internal components were tested and the LED-light screen was found to 
have failed. 
The specialist said the backlight had failed due to general wear, which isnt uncommon with 
LED technology. And unfortunately that wasnt covered by Mr Ms contents insurance. 
Although Mr M had said the TV had accidentally fallen to the floor there wasnt any sign of 
impact. So the specialist couldnt say the TV had suffered accidental damage.
I know Mr M doesnt agree with the specialists view. But I wouldnt expect an insurer to be 
an expert in every product it insures. So I dont think its unreasonable for Admiral to rely on 
the opinion of its expert assessors when deciding whether or not to accept a claim. 
That doesnt mean Admiral is saying Mr M is not being truthful about the circumstances 
leading to the claim. It means that the evidence Admiral has seen shows it is more likely that 
the screen was affected by the LED lights failing due to general wear. Without any evidence 
to suggest otherwise I cant say Admiral acted unfairly or outside of the terms and conditions 
of the contents insurance policy in declining the claim for accidental damage.
I know Mr M doesnt believe Admiral sent him the letters and reports when it said it did. I can 
see our investigator asked Admiral for further confirmation of when the letters were originally 
created. Ive looked at the audit trail, which shows the final decisions were sent to Mr Ms 
email in October 2020. But the metadata for the letters Mr M has now seen show April and 
May 2021 because copies were retrieved on that date.
I realise Mr M remains suspicious as he says he didnt receive any correspondence from 
Admiral. But I dont think that shows Admiral only created the letters after Mr M had 
complained to our service. The audit trail shows the letters were created and sent to Mr Ms 
correct email address in October 2020.I dont think its unreasonable to rely on the audit trail Admiral provided to show when the 
letters were originally created and sent. I realise Mr M feels the evidence couldve been 
manipulated to show whatever Admiral wanted. But Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Admiral didnt email Mr M the final response letters and the expert report when it says it did. 
And the data seen by this service confirms what Admiral has said. 
I realise Mr M has found the whole process very frustrating. He couldnt look at the claim 
through the online portal and an expected email didnt arrive. Admiral explained its service 
was affected by both the covid-19 situation and having to deal with priority claims due to 
adverse weather conditions. But its apologised for the poor service Mr M experienced and 
paid £50 compensation for any trouble and upset. And I think thats a reasonable response 
in the circumstances. 
I know Mr M feels very strongly about his complaint. He didnt like the way he was told about 
his claim being declined and hes sure he never received the emails from Admiral. I realise 
that will have increased his frustration and his feeling that Admiral wasnt keeping him in 
touch. 
But based on everything Ive seen I think Admiral has followed its normal procedures and its 
declined Mr Ms claim for accidental damage correctly and within the terms and conditions of 
the contents insurance policy.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Admiral has treated Mr M unfairly. And I wont be asking it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman