DRN-3368835
The complaint
Mr W has complained about his motor insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as he believes it 
unfairly decided he was at fault for an accident he feels didnt even occur.
What happened
Two solicitors firms contacted UKI to advise of an accident they said was caused by Mr W. 
UKI determined that only one solicitor could show proper authorisation to act for the other 
party and began dealing with it. Mr W initially accepted there must have been an impact, but 
later said he didnt think there had been  he had only agreed that there had because the 
other party, a motorbike rider, had said there had been. And he felt that if there had been a 
collision it must have been the bikers fault for riding too fast and/or trying to overtake him 
when it wasnt safe to do so. Mr W said the motorcyclist was unreliable as he seemed to 
have told one of the solicitors (the one UKI didnt deal with) that he had fallen off his bike 
which CCTV footage had shown wasnt true. 
UKI noted that the CCTV footage did show a coming together of the two vehicles, albeit a 
minor one. And that it happened during the process of Mr W leaving his business premises 
and becoming established on the road. UKI felt that it couldnt successfully defend Mr Ws 
liability for the accident  although it did challenge the level of losses initially submitted by 
the motorcyclist, ultimately refusing to pay thousands of pounds. 
Mr W felt UKI could settle the claim by paying the other party  but that it couldnt fairly 
accept liability on his behalf. At least not without going through sufficient processes. 
Otherwise, if it was just a matter of UKI protecting its outlay, it was unfair on him as hed 
have to suffer having a fault record against him. He wanted UKI to share with him details 
from the solicitor which had reported the motorcyclist had fallen off the bike. But UKI 
wouldnt do so. Mr W felt evidence against him should be shared as he otherwise couldnt 
defend himself. He felt UKI had breached his human rights.
Our Investigator felt that UKI had carried out a reasonable investigation into the claim and 
that subsequently it had settled the liability aspect as the policy allows it to do. He didnt think 
UKI had done anything wrong.
Mr W was dissatisfied. He said UKI should not be allowed to make a commercial decision (to 
settle liability) without first letting him see the evidence against him and being given a 
chance to defend himself. Mr W said that in a phone call with him, UKI admitted he might be 
right but that it wouldnt look to challenge the motorcyclist on liability as it had lost in similar 
cases before. Mr W felt it was unfair for UKI to act this way. He said if that were the case 
then theoretically UKI could think there were good prospects for success, 99% say, and still 
choose to settle against the policyholder, which is just unfair. 
Our Investigator responded and when Mr W remained unhappy, his complaint was passed 
for an Ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not minded to find any differently to our Investigator. Ill explain my 
views below, but I note at the outset that UKIs file shows it accepted liability on a without 
prejudice basis. So, if Mr W wants to, he can take on the liability issue himself, progressing 
to court if he wishes to.
I know Mr W will say that to do that he will need evidence that UKI has but has so far refused 
to share with him. If Mr W think UKI is withholding evidence he is entitled to he can make a 
request for information under data access rules, if he has not already done so. If he is 
unhappy with UKIs response in this respect, then he should refer to the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) which oversees matters related to data sharing.
The terms and conditions of the contract between UKI and Mr W are set out in the policy 
booklet. The terms do allow UKI to take on and settle claims from other parties as it sees fit. 
And there is no term or condition that binds UKI to discussing the matter with Mr W in the 
first instance, getting his approval or sharing any evidence held against him. That is the 
same of all motor insurance policies I am aware of on the market. Strictly speaking the 
insurer has ultimate autonomy in these issues.
But Mr W is right in that, if that were the case, it would make for a potentially unfair situation 
for some policyholders. So when this service receives a complaint on this issue we will 
consider whether the insurer has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on the policy term 
which allows it to settle liability issues. Each case is taken on its own merits, and the specific 
circumstances of each case will be considered carefully to reach a conclusion. So I cant 
say, in general terms, what it is fair or unfair for an insurer to do. I can only look at the 
complaint Mr W placed before us about UKIs response to the accident he was reported to 
have caused. 
It is clear to me that Mr W now believes that there was no collision. And that UKI has only 
decided not to defend or challenge his position because it has had bad experiences before. 
I can see why, put like this, that might upset Mr W. But I have to bear in mind that UKI will 
bring its previous experience and knowledge to bear when considering the prospects for 
success for a new claim. And that isnt an unreasonable thing for it to do. Effectively, taking 
many things into account, including how similar cases have been decide in the past, UKI had 
to make a judgement call about Mr Ws claim. UKI could look to defend but that would take 
time and money. Or it could look to settle, limiting the time and money spent. I think even 
Mr W would agree that if the prospects for a successful outcome were not good it would not 
be worthwhile pursuing the liability issue. And that is the decision UKI made here.
Of course the difficulty comes in that Mr W believes the prospects for a successful outcome 
were good. And that UKI had suggested this too. I havent heard the conversation Mr W has 
referred to. But I have seen UKIs file notes and see that based on Mr Ws own testimony 
and the CCTV footage he provided, UKI felt it could not successfully challenge the other 
party for liability. In short Mr W had told UKI that he had seen the motorbike but thought hed 
have time to complete his manoeuvre and move away before the rider came upon him. And 
the CCTV footage shows the bike apparently coming into contact with the rear right quarter 
of Mr Ws car as Mr W was finishing straightening up and moving away. 
I see that UKI did consider concerns Mr W had about the extent of damage to the bike, and 
the limited damage, if any to his car (hed noted the only scratch on his car wasnt at the 
level of the alleged impact and was likely pre-existing). As a result UKI had its engineer review matters and this resulted in it making a revised and limited offer for the damage. But it 
was noted that this didnt change the liability position as a whole because the accident 
happened whilst Mr W was manoeuvring. Further I see UKI also did consider concerns Mr W 
had about the speed of the rider, but didnt feel those issues would give it sufficient grounds 
to challenge, not in light of Mr Ws testimony and the CCTV footage. Mr W clearly disagrees, 
and I note he thinks the initial and incorrect reference to the rider having fallen off improves 
his position too. But, in light of his own testimony and CCTV evidence, Im not persuaded 
that is the case because that evidence stands on its own and isnt diminished by the veracity 
or otherwise of the other party. 
Overall I think UKI completed a fair and reasonable investigation and assessment of the 
claim. I dont think it would be reasonable to say this was one UKI should have progressed 
to challenge at court, or that it acted unfairly by choosing not to. It follows that I find UKI has 
not done anything wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman