DRN-3649641
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) trading as 
American Express hasnt refunded a payment a he made using his credit card. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr W purchased some travel insurance for his relative using his American 
Express credit card. Due to travel restrictions that were then subsequently in place, Mr Ws 
relative couldnt travel abroad as intended. Mr W approached the insurer for a refund. 
The insurer initially agreed to refund Mr W, it then later said a refund couldnt be provided 
but would apply a credit to his account with the insurer so that he could purchase new 
insurance to the same value at a later date. Mr W insisted on a refund and after many weeks 
the insurer once again agreed to refund the cost of the insurance back to Mr Ws credit card. 
Unfortunately, Mr W didnt receive the refund as promised. He continued to correspond with 
the insurer, but no refund was received. Mr W then contacted American Express in August 
2020 to ask for assistance in getting his money back. 
American Express told Mr W that a chargeback couldnt be completed but said it would look 
into his claim for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) 
instead. In June 2021, American Express declined Mr Ws section 75 claim. It said that as 
the insurance was taken out by Mr Ws relative and not him the required arrangements for a 
section 75 claim to be successful werent present. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that although American 
Express had provided very limited information about what happened with the chargeback, he 
was persuaded that the transaction wouldnt have met the specific criteria in the chargeback 
rules to have been successful. He also thought that the reasons American Express had 
given for the section 75 claim failing were fair.
Mr W didnt accept that outcome. In summary, he said that American Express mishandled 
his chargeback claim and they are unable to provide any documentation to show why it was 
declined or what happened. He reiterated that the insurer was required to give him a refund 
as there had been a breach of contract and there was nothing within the insurers terms that 
stated he had to accept a credit rather than a full refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W made a payment using his American Express credit card and asked for assistance 
to get his money back. Ive considered what American Express could and should have done 
and whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr W.
Mr W initially wanted American Express to raise a chargeback against the insurer. A 
chargeback is a way for payment settlement disputes to be resolved between the merchant 
and card issuer. Each card scheme has its own rules about what types of disputes can be 
raised by chargeback and under what conditions. 
American Express had initially provided very limited information about what happened with 
Mr Ws chargeback request. I contacted American Express to provide further information 
about that and to explain why it wasnt successful. It provided further evidence and 
comments. 
Ive now seen that a chargeback wasnt raised by American Express. This is because when 
Mr W contacted American Express about the refund, he was already outside of the required 
timeframe for a chargeback to be made. American Express provided me with a copy of the 
relevant chargeback rules outlining these timeframes. Having reviewed these, Im satisfied 
that a chargeback could never have succeeded because Mr W had referred his dispute 
about the insurer too late.
It seems American Express didnt communicate this to Mr W or to our service at an earlier 
date which is disappointing. However, I dont think this makes any material difference to the 
outcome Ive reached. I say this because while American Express didnt tell Mr W the reason 
his chargeback claim wasnt successful, it did immediately agree to look at it under section 
75 instead. So, its failure to communicate as well as it could have, didnt cause any delays in 
American Express giving Mr W an outcome to his request for a refund.  
The general effect of section 75 is that if Mr W has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the insurer, he can bring a like claim against American Express, 
provided certain conditions are met. 
One of those conditions is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. 
What this means in Mr Ws case is that he (the debtor) needed to have a contractual 
relationship with the insurer (the supplier) in order to bring a like claim of breach of contract 
against American Express (creditor). 
However, Mr W doesnt have a contractual relationship with the insurer. The insurance policy 
was taken out by Mr Ws relative. While Mr W paid for the policy, he cant bring a claim of 
breach of contract against the insurer as he was not the contracting party, his relative was. If 
Mr W cant bring a claim against the insurer, there is no like claim he can bring against 
American Express either. 
I therefore dont think American Express acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Ws 
request for a refund. So, while I think it could have communicated better with Mr W, it did 
explain to Mr W that it couldnt provide him a refund and I dont think it acted unfairly in doing 
so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman