DRN-3246483
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a
cancellation claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs G booked a holiday abroad to a country Ill call S. They were
due to travel between 16 and 23 August 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. Mr
and Mrs G took out a travel insurance policy online on 13 March 2020, through a price
comparison website. The policy was an Esure Premium Idol policy, which was underwritten
by URV.
On the same day, 13 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office
(FCDO  formerly FCO) advised against all but essential travel to some regions of S. While
S was later part of a travel corridor and travel was permitted; on 27 July 2020, the FCDO
again advised against all but essential travel to S. So Mr and Mrs G cancelled their trip and
made a claim on their travel insurance policy for their cancellation costs.
URV turned down the claim. It said that policy terms didnt cover cancellation due to changes
in FCDO advice. And it also stated in its final response letter that at the time Mr and Mrs G
bought the policy, Covid-19 had been a known event.
Mr and Mrs G were unhappy with URVs decision and they asked us to look into their
complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be partly upheld. She accepted
that the cancellation section of the policy didnt cover changes to FCDO advice. But she
noted that the policy specifically excluded claims if a policyholder had travelled against
FCDO advice. She felt this left Mr and Mrs G in an unfair position where they werent
covered if they cancelled due to the FCDO advising against travel and they wouldnt have
been covered if theyd travelled as planned. So she recommended that URV should assess
the claim under the cancellation section of the policy.
URV disagreed. It said it had concerns about the fact that Mr and Mrs G had booked their
trip in December 2019, but they didnt take out the policy until 13 March 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 December 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I felt it was fair for URV to turn down Mr and Mrs Gs claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr and Mrs Gs policy, the circumstances of their claim and the sales process they
followed to decide, whether URV treated them fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy, as these form the
basis of their contract with URV.
Page 7 of the policy sets out the pre-paid, irrecoverable cancellation costs URV will pay for,
if a policyholder is unable to travel because:
you, a travelling companion, a family member, a close business colleague, or the 
person you were going to stay with became ill, was injured or died;
your home was burgled, or seriously damaged by fire, storm or flood; you were called
for jury service or required as a witness in a court of law;
your pre-booked accommodation was damaged by a natural disaster, and alternative
accommodation was not available;
you, or a travelling companion were made redundant;
you, or a travelling companion as members of HM Forces have your leave orders
cancelled.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs G werent able to travel for reasons outside of their control. But
their trip wasnt cancelled as the result of any of the insured events which Ive set out
above. Theres no section of the contract which covers the situation Mr and Mrs G found
themselves in. So I dont think their claim is covered by the terms and conditions of the
policy.
Our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable for URV to step away from a strict
interpretation of the policy terms and pay the accommodation claim. Thats because she
thought it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Mr and Mrs G to be left without any cover for
cancelling their trip due to the change in FCDO advice, but also where they wouldnt have
been covered if theyd travelled as planned.
There are some limited situations where, if I considered that policy documentation wasnt
clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy exclusions, I might think its fair and
reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions.
However, I dont think thats the case here and Ill explain why.
The sales process
In its final response to Mr and Mrs Gs complaint, URV stated that it considered Covid-19 to
have been a known-event at the time the policy was purchased. It referred to media
coverage about the situation. It queried why Mr and Mrs G hadnt taken out insurance when
they booked the trip, around three and a half months before March 2020, or closer to their
planned departure date. Insurance policies are designed to protect policyholders against the
risk of unforeseen and unexpected events. Theyre not intended to cover risks a policyholder
knows might lead to a claim.
However, I dont think I need to make a finding on this point. I say that because I think the
sales process Mr and Mrs G followed when they applied for insurance through the price
comparison website makes it clear that claims related to changes in FCDO advice might not
be covered.
I asked URV to provide me with a copy of the online sales journey Mr and Mrs G wouldve
seen when they took out their policy. The front page of the price comparison website
included a large text box, underneath the Where are you going? section, which was
coloured green. This says:Coronavirus Outbreak (COVID-19)
You should check with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) to ensure they are not
advising against travel to your chosen destination.
If the FCO are advising against all or all but essential travel before you purchase a
policy: Most policies will not cover you for travel to that destination.
If the FCO change their advice after you by a policy: Some policies may provide cover.
Cover for any disruption to your plans will vary by provider.
In all cases please check the policy wording of your chosen provider before purchasing.
In my view, I think this was a clear enough warning during the sales process that claims
which were down to changes in FCDO advice might not be covered by some insurers and
that policyholders needed to check the terms of their contracts. Ive reached this view
particularly taking into account both the situation which was unfolding around Covid-19 at the
time Mr and Mrs G took out the policy and the fact that the FCDO advised against all but
essential travel to some areas of S on the day they took it out.
So I think that when Mr and Mrs G bought their insurance policy, the sales process they
followed was clear enough to highlight the fact that any policy they took out might not cover
any future claims caused by changes in FCDO advice. This means I think that in the specific
circumstances of this case, they were sufficiently signposted to check the cover provided by
their policy in relation to this point. Had they done so; they wouldve been in a position to
take out cover which might have covered the situation they later found themselves in.
Overall then, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Gs position, as I appreciate theyve been
left out of pocket, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for URV to find that the terms of
the policy didnt cover the circumstances of their claim.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
URV accepted my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs G didnt respond by the deadline we gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any additional evidence or comments for me 
to consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman