DRN-3857277
Complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Think Money Limited (Think Money) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against him. 
Background
In March 2021, Mr S account received credits of £100 and £60. The funds immediately 
exited the account. Think Money was subsequently contacted by one of its customers saying 
that they been scammed into sending funds to Mr S account. 
Think Money was then contacted by a third-party bank which sent the other payment to      
Mr S account stating that the sender of the funds had also reported being a victim of fraud. 
Think Money reviewed Mr S account. As a result of its investigation, Think Money decided 
to record a fraud prevention marker.
Upon learning of the fraud marker, Mr S complained. Think Money looked at Mr S complaint 
and didnt uphold it. As Mr S remained dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr S concerns. He didnt think that Think Money had 
done anything wrong or treated Mr S unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mr S disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Think Money has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr S is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Think Money must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Mr S account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Think Money also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr S was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Mr S allowing someone else to use his account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr S complaint, I need to decide whether I think that Think Money had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr S account and that his actions 
suggest he was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Think Money 
has done this here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr S 
account in March 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr S was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr S told our adjudicator that he didnt 
know anything about it. He said he wasnt using the account at this time as hed been able to 
open a basic account elsewhere. Mr S confirmed that he hadnt shared the account 
credentials or security information with anyone, although he also referred to previously being 
a victim of fraud, on a separate account with another bank, a couple of years earlier. 
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But, in truth, it is difficult for me to accept that Mr S 
didnt have anything at all to do with the activity that took place on his account. I say this 
because Mr S account was being used right up until the period the fraudulent activity took 
place. And there were regular transfers going from this account to another in Mr S name. It 
is my understanding that this is the other account Mr S says he was using at the time. Mr S 
may have been using another account but as he was transferring the funds from this 
account, he was also using this one.
I appreciate that Mr S may have previously been a victim of fraud but this account was 
opened some time after this. Furthermore, given Mr S has said that no one else had the card 
or login details for this account, its difficult to see how someone else could have carried out 
the activity. And as the funds in question appear to have been spent by Mr S, I cant 
reasonably say that he had no knowledge of what happened and that he was unwittingly 
caught up in fraudulent activity. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Think Money did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr S account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr S was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Think Money to record a fraud prevention marker 
in the circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring 
Think Money to take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. But I hope Mr S will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman