DRN-3953976
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) acted irresponsibly by allowing her 
to increase her overdraft limit to £1,000. She says the lending has caused her further 
financial difficulty and has had to use student finance to pay the charges. 
What happened
Miss K held an account with BOS with an overdraft limit of £300. In April 2020 this was 
increased to £1,000.  
Miss K complained to BOS that the increase in her overdraft limit was irresponsible and 
unaffordable for her and led to further financial difficulty.
BOS upheld Miss Ks complaint as it didnt think it was responsible for it to increase her 
overdraft limit by £700 within a short period of time. To settle Miss Ks complaint it agreed to:
Pay £150 compensation for trouble and upset;
It calculated that interest and charges applied after April 2020 amounted to £211.01. 
But as it had already refunded £216.40 in fees there was no further refund due;
It would remove the overdraft facility and Miss K could either repay the outstanding 
balance; or
The account would be closed with a debit balance and a default applied to her credit 
file backdated to 27 April 2020. 
Miss K was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and agreed BOS shouldnt have increased 
the overdraft limit to £1,000 in April 2020 but thought that what BOS had already agreed to 
do was a fair way to settle Miss Ks complaint and in-line with what we would recommend. 
Miss K didnt wish to accept this offer. She wants the outstanding debt to be written off and 
doesnt want her credit file impacted. Miss K has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Miss Ks statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that 
the increase of her overdraft limit to £1,000 in April 2020 without carrying out a more 
thorough review of Miss Ks personal and financial circumstances was not appropriate
BOS has already upheld Miss Ks complaint and agreed to settle the complaint in-line with  
this finding as well as compensating Miss K an additional £150. BOS has explained that as 
the calculated refunds due (£211) total less than what Miss K has already received (£216) in 
refunds, nothing further is due and Miss K will be left with an outstanding balance. So while 
Miss K will be left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, BOS has already 
agreed to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss K would like to BOS to write off the balance of her overdraft as the irresponsible lending 
has caused her financial hardship. But this is a reason for upholding her complaint rather 
than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right such as hers. I 
understand Miss Ks personal circumstances have been very difficult over the past couple of 
years  I sympathise with Miss K and I think this has no doubt also contributed to her 
financial struggles. I can see that when BOS was informed of Miss Ks circumstances it 
supported Miss B by refunding charges during this period as well as compensating her for 
trouble and upset. So I dont think it would be fair to ask BOS to write off a debt which 
represent funds which she used and benefitted from. 
Miss K is also unhappy that her credit file will be adversely impacted by the reporting of the 
default on her account. But BOS does have a duty to make sure the information it reports on 
its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. If 
Miss K says the overdraft limit increase to £1,000 was unaffordable and Miss K was unable 
to pay back the amount outstanding in the required time, then BOS needs to report this as 
this is an accurate reflection of what happened.Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what BOS has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Miss K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss K to decide whether she 
wishes to accept BOS offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman