DRN-3772705
The complaint
Mr C and Mr S complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled their claim 
under a property owners policy following an escape of water.
What happened
Your text here The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only 
summarise them here:
 
Mr C and Mr S are leaseholders in a block of flats and their apartment was damaged 
following water leaks in neighbouring properties. This complaint relates to events in 
the period from 28 April 2022 to when Aviva issued its final response on 29 July 
2022. 
A complaint about delays from when the claim was made in October 2021 to the 27 
April 2022 when Aviva issued its first final response has been considered in a 
separate decision.
Mr C and Mr S tell us the handling of the claim by Aviva and its contractors has been 
exceptionally poor and unprofessional.
Aviva acknowledge there was a delay in providing a copy of the terms and conditions 
Mr C and Mr S had requested. And offered £100 compensation as an apology for the 
delay and inconvenience which caused more frustration and annoyance than 
shouldve been experienced with this claim.
Mr C and Mr S were not happy with this offer and felt it didnt compensate for the 
time theyd spent dealing with what they say is Avivas and its contractors repeated 
incompetence.
Our investigator felt that the handling of the claim in the early part of the period being 
considered under this case was reasonable. However, she noted delays in providing 
the terms and conditions which in her opinion was avoidable. And felt this delay 
caused more frustration and annoyance than was necessary. She didnt think there 
were any delays after the terms and conditions were provided that adversely affected 
the claims progress, but she urged Aviva to expedite the claim to bring it to a 
conclusion.
Mr C and Mr S disagreed with our investigators view and say their complaint is about 
everything thats happened since they first made a claim in October 2021 and the 
series of issues theyve been faced with. And they asked that an ombudsman decide 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
I appreciate Mr C and Mr S have strong feelings on their case, and if I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of testimony, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its 
just that I dont feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr C and Mr S 
dont take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Ive issued a separate decision about the complaint points raised up to 27 April 2022. And in 
this decision Im only considering issues and events from 28 April 2022 to 29 July 2022 
when Aviva issued its final response.
Ive seen there were delays in providing the terms and conditions, and Aviva dont dispute 
this. However, Im not persuaded Aviva caused further delays or inconvenience above the 
normal level of disruption a claim of this nature would bring. 
Ive considered the level of compensation Aviva awarded for the delays I find it responsible 
for and am satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable, and in line with what Id expect it to pay 
in the circumstances of this case.
I hope Aviva have progressed the claim as guided by our investigator and no further issues 
have arisen that cause further distress and inconvenience to Mr C and Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman