DRN-1087184
Complaint
Mr S says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Around August 2000, Mrs S was sold a regular premium PPI policy alongside an equity 
release loan. The PPI protected Mr Ss mortgage repayments and provided cover for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint. 
Theres limited information available from the time the PPI was sold to Mr S around       
August 2000, which isnt unusual given the sale took place many years ago. As a result, 
HSBC hasnt been able to provide all the copies of Mr Ss actual paperwork from the time of 
sale. 
So, Ive based my findings on the information I do have and what I think is most likely to 
have happened at the time of sale. 
HSBC says that Mr S would have been given a choice about the PPI and it would have 
gained his consent. Mr S, on the other hand, says he doesnt remember agreeing to the PPI 
and believes it was added without his knowledge.
Due to the time that has passed and the lack of information I have about this sale, there isnt 
anything to say whether or not HSBC gave Mr S a choice about the PPI. Businesses arent 
required to keep information indefinitely and so it would be unfair to say that HSBC wouldnt 
have given Mr S a choice or gained his consent, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. 
I cant assume something went wrong when there isnt any persuasive evidence that it did. 
So it wouldnt be fair for me to uphold this complaint on this basis.
 
 
Because HSBC no longer holds all paperwork from the time of sale, it doesnt know whether 
it recommended the PPI to Mr S. Having considered the available information, including the 
fact that Mr Ss told us he doesnt recall any discussions about the PPI at the time of sale, I 
think its more likely than not that HSBC didnt recommend that he take out the PPI. I also havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC assessed Mr Ss circumstances at the time 
such as Mr Ss employee benefits and from this made a formal recommendation to Mr S to 
take out the PPI. This means HSBC didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been  particularly about the things it didnt cover. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing medical conditions. So it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Mr S has told us he would have been entitled to at least three months sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. Having thought about what Mr S has said about his 
sick pay, I dont think this means he wouldnt have found the policy useful. A mortgage is a 
large, long term financial commitment. If repayments arent met borrowers stand to lose their 
home. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mr S would have received 
from his employer and would have potentially paid out for longer than he would have 
received full pay  up to 12 months per successful claim. The PPI also would have paid a 
benefit if Mr S was ever made redundant.
So overall, I think Mr S could have found the policy useful if he ever fell on hard times and I 
dont think that any better information would have put him off from taking out the policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
HSBC has given me information that shows that the equity release loan that was sold at the 
same time as the PPI ended in 2005. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So HSBC doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr S paid for the PPI that was sold 
alongside his equity release loan.
 
My final decision
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman