DRN-4230697
The complaint
Miss A complains about the service provided to her by Telefonica UK limited trading as O2
in respect of fixed sum loan agreement she entered into with it in April 2020.
What happened
In April 2020 Miss A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with O2 for a mobile (in purple
or pink) costing £1,334.00. Under the terms of the fixed sum loan agreement, everything
else being equal, Miss A undertook to make an upfront payment of £100 followed by
29 monthly payments of £41.14 and a final monthly payment of £40.94 - making a total sum
repayable of £1,334.00 (at an APR of 0%).
As well as entering into a fixed sum loan agreement with O2 for a mobile Miss A also
entered into an unregulated service agreement (for airtime) with it and an insurance contract
(at a monthly cost of £15) with a company that I will call I.
Based on notes provided by O2, Miss A contacted it in June 2021 about a damage claim.
These notes further suggest that O2 referred/transferred Miss A to I.
Based on what Miss A has said and submitted I provided her with a replacement mobile.
Based on notes provided by O2, Miss A contacted it in September 2021 to complain about
the quality of the replacement mobile she had been provided with by I.
As I understand it Miss A sent the replacement mobile back to I for inspection and repair, or
inspection and replacement. However, I returned it to Miss A. Miss A then sent it to O2
(in February 2022) for inspection and repair, or inspection and replacement. However, it was
never received by O2, or it was received by O2 and then lost by it.
In November 2021, following a complaint she had made to it, I sent Miss A a final response
letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL I said it wasnt upholding Miss As complaint that it
had provided her with a faulty mobile and if she was unhappy with [its] resolution of [the]
matter she had the right to refer her complaint (against it) to our service.
In May 2022, following a complaint she had made to it, O2 issued Miss A with a FRL. Under
cover of this FRL O2 said it accepted responsibility for the loss of the mobile and by way of
compensation it was prepared to offer a refurbished replacement in black  purple or pink
not being available. O2 also said that if Miss A preferred to upgrade to a new phone, [it
would] close [her] Device Plan [with] nothing further to pay.
In June 2022 O2 issued Miss A with a further FRL. Under cover of this FRL O2 said that it
believed its offer made under cover of its May 2022 FRL was fair, but it no longer had any
stock in any colour.
In August 2022 Miss A referred her complaint about O2 to our service.
In January 2023 O2 confirmed to our service that it was prepared to pay Miss A £411.20,
being a refund of 9 monthly fixed sum loan agreement payments made of £41.14 (for the
months of January 2022 to September 2022) and 1 monthly payment made of £40.94 (for
the month of October 2022) and based on the fact that the last use of the replacement
phone was on 31 December 2021.
One of our investigators considered O2s offer and believed that it was fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances. However, Miss A didnt agree. And because of this her complaint was 
passed to me for review and decision.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in summary:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss A has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided
detailed submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in
their entirety. However, I trust that Miss A will not take the fact that my findings focus on
what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The
purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
In April 2020 Miss A was provided with three different products, a fixed sum loan agreement
(for a mobile) with O2, an unregulated service agreement (for airtime) with O2 and an
insurance contract with I.
O2 comes under this services compulsory jurisdiction. The fixed sum loan agreement it
provided is regulated and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint
about. Under this type of agreement, O2 is responsible for a complaint about the quality of
the mobile supplied to Miss A in April 2020 and to a lesser extent the mobile supplied to
Miss A (by I) in, or around, June 2021.
We dont have the power to consider a complaint about the unregulated service agreement
with O2. Broadly speaking our rules allow us to consider complaints about regulated
activities as well as a few others specified. Complaints about unregulated service
agreements arent covered by our rules. We also dont have the power to consider (in this
decision at least) any complaint Miss A might have about I.
So, in the context of this complaint, I can say whether I think the original mobile O2 supplied
to Miss A under her fixed sum loan agreement, and to a lesser extent the mobile supplied to
Miss A (by I) in, or around, June 2021, were of satisfactory quality. I can also find on whether
O2 handled matters relating to that agreement fairly.
I cant, for example, decide whether Miss As insurance claims were handled appropriately.
These matters relate to an insurance contract with a different company, I, which isnt party to
this complaint, so I cant require O2 to do anything in relation to these matters.The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant here. It says, in summary, that any
goods supplied must be of satisfactory quality  defined as whether they meet the standard
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of
the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. Satisfactory quality also refers
to the durability of the goods.
So, in the context of Miss As complaint, I need to determine whether theres been a breach
of contract on the grounds that she was supplied with goods which were of unsatisfactory
quality.
Miss A was supplied with a brand-new mobile by O2, so Id expect it to be free from faults for
some time and also to be sufficiently durable.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was
present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest
otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for Miss A to show that the goods werent of
satisfactory quality.
The mobile was supplied to Miss A in April 2020, and it was some 14 months before she
contacted O2 for the first time. I think its fair to suggest that if the mobile was of
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, Miss A would have contacted O2 sooner than
she did. I would also add that based on what both parties have said and submitted its
unclear whether Miss As mobile developed a fault in June 2021 or had become damaged.
I think its also important to add that although the replacement mobile Miss A was supplied
with by I may have developed a fault in, or around, September 2021 (although O2 suggest
she was using it till 31 December 2021), when looking at O2s obligations Im required to
have regard to how long Miss A was in possession of a satisfactory mobile since April 2020
not how long she was in possession of a satisfactory mobile since June 2021.
And based on what Miss A has herself said and submitted Im satisfied she was in
possession of a satisfactory mobile for some 17 months (bar a short period whilst I was
securing her a replacement) and this simply adds weight to my view that O2 arent liable to
compensate Miss A along the lines she suggests it should have to.
Put another way, based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im satisfied that
more likely than not Miss A was supplied with a mobile from O2 in April 2020 that was of
satisfactory quality and one that was sufficiently durable.
So had the replacement mobile (provided to Miss A by I) not been lost I would have simply
directed O2 to return it to Miss A, nothing more. In other words, I wouldnt have directed O2
to have repaired the replacement mobile (provided to Miss A by I) and I certainly wouldnt
have directed it to provide Miss A with a brand new mobile as she submits it should.
However, in this case, the replacement mobile (provided to Miss A by I) has been lost and
O2 accepts responsibility for that loss. And its only fair that Miss A should be compensated
for this loss.
In deciding what O2 should do to fairly (and reasonably) compensate Miss A Ive had
regards to the position Miss A would have been in had the replacement mobile (provided to
her by I) not been lost but returned to her by O2 in good time.In my view the position Miss A would have been in is one where she would have been in
possession of the replacement mobile (provided to her by I) worth very little and with an
obligation to continue paying her fixed sum loan agreement payments till October 2022.
The position Miss A has ended up being in was one where she wasnt in possession of the
replacement mobile (provided to her by I) worth very little and in the position of having paid
her remaining fixed sum loan agreement payments.
So, with this in mind, I can confirm that Im satisfied that a payment of £411.20 by O2 would
constitute both fair and reasonable compensation for it to have to pay.
O2 responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Miss A responded to say that it should be made clearer to consumers, who elect to purchase 
insurance, that they are entering into a contract with somebody other than O2. And had this 
fact been made clear to her in April 2020 she wouldnt have purchased the insurance (at a 
cost of £15 a month) that she did.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the point Miss A has made in response to my provisional decision. But as 
this particular point wasnt raised as part of Miss As original complaint to O2, or our service, 
I make, nor am I able to make, any finding on it in this decision.
Given what I say above and given that O2 confirmed it accepted my provisional decision I 
can confirm that I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm 
them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 must pay Miss A £411.20 in 
compensation, but nothing more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman