DRN-3652950
The complaint
Mr D complains about the advice given by Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited 
(Vale) to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr D was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. Mr D met with Vale in August 2017 and it completed 
a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information about his circumstances 
and objectives. Vale also carried out an assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk, which it 
deemed to be highest medium.
In October 2017 Mr Ds employer sent out Time to Choose information asking members of 
the DB scheme what they wanted to do with their preserved benefits  either remain in the 
BSPS which would then move to the PPF, join the BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits 
elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later 
extended to 22 December 2017.)
In the same month Vale advised Mr D to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension 
arrangement and invest the proceeds in an investment portfolio utilising the services of a 
Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM), which Vale deemed matched Mr Ds attitude to risk. 
The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Vale considered 
the necessary investment growth was achievable, so Mr D could end up with a bigger 
pension; the reduction in the benefits announced by the existing scheme left Mr D in doubt 
about the shape of the future scheme; and while Mr Ds income needs could be met by the 
DB scheme, and life cover could be taken out to provide death benefits for his son, Mr Ds 
circumstances meant he could afford to take a risk in return for potentially higher retirement 
income.
Mr D accepted the advice and in March 2018 around £94,000 was transferred to Mr Ds new 
personal pension.
Mr D, through his representative complained in 2020 to Vale about the suitability of the 
transfer advice.
Vale didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. In summary it said Mr D wanted the potential to 
increase his pension fund, which it said it felt was achievable given his attitude to risk and 
the chosen investment portfolio. It said Mr D wanted to sever ties with the BSPS because of 
the uncertainty around it, and in addition he wanted to access his pension before 65 and 
have the ability to pass his entire fund to his son upon his death.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr D, via his representative asked this service to consider his 
complaint. And an investigator ultimately upheld the complaint and required Vale to pay 
compensation. In summary they said a transfer wasnt suitable. They said a transfer to a 
personal pension was unlikely to improve on Mr Ds DB scheme benefits given the level of 
growth required to match them. They also considered Mr Ds attitude to risk assessed as 
highest medium wasnt suitable given his limited investment experience  they thought a 
medium risk assessment was more appropriate.
In addition they said there were no other compelling reasons to justify a transfer out of the 
DB scheme  for example Mr Ds retirement was 30 years in the future and his plans werent 
known at this time; his pension was designed to provide a retirement income and not a tool 
to provide a legacy for his son; and Mr Ds concerns about the future of the BSPS should 
have been allayed by Vale. Overall they didnt think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
Mr Ds best interests.
Vale disagreed. In summary it said Mr Ds attitude to risk was discussed at length  it didnt 
think it was unsuitable for him. It said Mr D was 30 years away from retirement and wanted 
to take more risk for the potential to increase his income. It said performance data for funds 
across three risk profiles, including medium risk, which the investigator deemed was more 
appropriate, show that the level of growth required has been achieved. Overall it said, given 
the length to retirement and his contributions to his current pension, Mr D could meet his 
objective of retiring early on the income he said he needed.
Despite Vales disagreement with the investigators conclusions, it made an offer to Mr D, as 
a gesture of goodwill, which it said was in line with the regulators DB pension transfer 
guidance. But in doing so, it used the value of Mr Ds pension fund at the point Mr D moved 
his pension, using the services of another adviser, from the recommended provider. 
Mr D, through his representative declined the offer. In summary he said that the calculation 
wasnt suitable  primarily because Vale capped the loss at the point he transferred to 
another provider, which he said isnt fair. He said the calculation should take account of the 
fund value at the date of calculation.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Vale's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Vale should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17 /9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor when the advice was given.
Mr D was 30 at the time of the advice and its recorded that while he was unsure of his 
retirement age, he anticipated it being in the region of age 60. The critical yield, or growth 
rate required to match Mr Ds benefits at age 60 if he opted into the BSPS2 was 6.34% if he 
took a full pension and 5.64% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The 
equivalent critical yields to match the benefits available if the BSPS moved to the PPF were 
6.35% and 6.1% respectively.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 4.7% per year for 29 years to retirement. Ive 
kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: 
the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and 
the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr D's 
highest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view there would be 
little point in Mr D giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.But here, assuming Mr D took his tax-free cash entitlement and a reduced pension in the 
BSPS2, the critical yield was 5.64%. This figure was higher than the discount rate and higher 
than the regulators middle projection rate. I can see that Vale classified Mr D as a highest 
medium risk investor. But while I accept Mr D was young and the term to retirement was 
long, Mr D lacked investment experience. In fact Vale categorised him as inexperienced. So 
given Mr Ds circumstances and importantly that hed not invested before, I think a medium 
risk attitude categorisation was more appropriate here. 
Given this I think it was clear Mr D was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a person pension, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. And with a critical yield of 6.1%, this would 
be the case even if the scheme moved to the PPF. 
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required, would have 
required Mr D to take investment risk at a higher level than I think he was prepared to take. 
And even then I think its more likely than not Mr D would be worse off financially at 
retirement if he transferred out.
I accept that Mr D was not married and its likely the critical yield figure was based on the 
BSPS2 providing a spouses pension, which wouldnt have been important to Mr D at this 
time. But Mr D had a partner, so its possible that he might get married in the future at which 
point this benefit would become important. In any event, I still consider it gives a good 
indication of the value of benefits Mr D was considering giving up. Its also the case that the 
regulator required Vale to provide it and so deems it a necessary and important part of the 
decision-making process.
Ive also considered the cash flow forecast produced by Vale, which it says shows Mr D
could meet his target retirement income need and in certain scenarios he would still have a 
pension fund to pass on upon his death. But firstly I can see that based on a low rate of 
growth, Mr D would run out of money completely at age 80. And even then it appears this is 
only achieved by Mr D withdrawing a static amount of income each year up to state 
retirement age and from then withdrawing a substantially lower amount, instead relying on 
his state pension. The other scenarios show the same assumptions too. Im not necessarily 
persuaded that Mr D understood that hed need to take substantially less income from his 
personal pension, instead relying on his state pension, to make his funds last.
In summary, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Ds benefits were reduced, I 
think he was very unlikely to match, let alone exceed his benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr D would be 
financially worse off in retirement. So based on the above alone, I dont think a transfer was 
in Mr Ds best interest.
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice.
There might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ive considered below whether such other reasons applied here.
Flexibility and income needs
Its recorded that Mr D wanted the ability to retire early and that his target retirement income 
was £1,200 a month.But crucially Mr D was only 30 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen he 
didnt have concrete retirement plans. I think Mr Ds retirement was so far in the future that 
he couldnt reasonably have had any firm plans. As Mr D had around another 30 years 
before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind 
of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr D to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt reasonably 
know what his needs in retirement would be. Mr D wanted the ability to retire early. But he 
already had this option available to him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. Of 
course if Mr Ds needs developed later on and he had reason to transfer, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still many years 
away. While this wouldnt have been possible if Mr Ds scheme moved to the PPF, if he 
opted to join the BSPS2 he wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, 
if indeed it was required. 
Notwithstanding the above, if Mr D took benefits from the BSPS2 at 60, he would be entitled 
to an annual income of around £6,700 if he took a full pension. And if the scheme entered 
the PPF that figure was around the same. This wouldnt have met Mr Ds £1,200 a month 
need in full; albeit I can see that the suitability report said it was sufficient for his needs. But 
in my view this wouldve provided a strong foundation for Mr Ds retirement and importantly it 
was guaranteed. 
Furthermore Mr D was contributing to his current workplace pension  both employer and 
employee contributions at a not insignificant percentage - and he had another 30 or more 
years of pension contributions to add to this part of his retirement provision. Given this had 
the potential to amount to a significant sum, I think this wouldve likely provided the 
difference Mr D needed to meet his overall retirement income need  he still of course had 
his state pension income to add to this when he reached 68. Moreover, Mr Ds workplace 
pension wouldve provided him with extra flexibility. He couldve taken lump sums as and 
when required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if 
Mr D retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve 
given him the flexibility to retire early and meet his income needs. 
Overall I still think Mr D couldve easily met his retirement income needs by remaining in the 
DB scheme and supplementing his income with his other pension. And I think this was the 
case whether Mr D opted into BSPS2 or the scheme moved to the PPF - I dont think he 
needed to risk his guaranteed benefits to do so.
Death benefits
The suitability report recorded that Mr D wanted his son to benefit from his pension rather 
than his partner and so a lump sum benefit was preferable to a spouses pension  albeit I 
also note it said it wasnt an absolute priority.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr D given the circumstances. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr D might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits to a personal pension because of 
this, the priority here was to advise Mr D about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think the potential 
for different death benefits should have been prioritised over this and Mr Ds security in 
retirement. And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Ds death was dependent on 
investment returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment returns were lower than 
expected, there may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.I can see Vale made reference to Mr Ds scheme providing a childrens pension, which was 
available up to age 23 (if still in full-time education) in its suitability report. But given his sons 
age and the number of years before Mr D could consider retiring, I dont think this wouldve 
been of benefit. But the scheme provided pre-retirement benefits in the form of a childrens 
allowance. And Mr D could nominate his son as the beneficiary of his new workplace 
pension, so he already had the ability to ensure the majority of his pension would be passed 
on in line with his wishes.
I can see that Vale produced a number of life assurance quotes (both term assurance and 
whole of life) and said life cover could be put in place instead of using Mr Ds pension to 
provide this benefit -albeit it appears Vale ultimately chose not to recommend this favouring 
the transfer instead. And while the quotes were simply based on the transfer value instead of 
an amount based on what Mr D would ideally like to leave his son and how much he could 
afford, given Mr Ds disposable income at the time, I think either way this wouldve been 
affordable. In my view, this was the suitable way forward and if Mr D genuinely wanted to 
leave a legacy for his son, this is what Vale ought to have explored in greater detail and 
ultimately recommended  I consider it wouldve met Mr Ds objective without risking his 
retirement income to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr D.
Control and concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Part of Vales reasons for its recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was because 
of Mr Ds concerns about the future shape of the scheme in light of the recent 
announcement by his employer. 
I have no doubt that Mr D was concerned about his pension. I think its likely he knew of 
other colleagues who were transferring and there was lots of negative sentiment about the 
PPF. So its possible that Mr D was also considering transferring because of these concerns 
about his employer and what might happen. 
But it was Vales duty to give Mr D an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. At the time of the advice the available information from the scheme trustees 
indicated that, while not guaranteed, the new BSPS2 scheme would likely go ahead. I think 
this is what Vale shouldve been clear with Mr D to help alleviate his concerns.
Mr D was also concerned about the scheme moving to the PPF. But based on what Ive 
seen and discussed above, Mr Ds income needs wouldve still been broadly met through the 
PPF despite the 10% reduction in starting benefits. While the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, importantly the income was still guaranteed. So I think Vale ought to have 
reassured Mr D that, his scheme moving to the PPF was not as concerning as he thought or 
was led to believe.
SummaryI accept that Mr D was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that control, the potential for a greater 
retirement income and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal 
pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr D. But Vale wasnt there to just 
transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, which along with his other retirement provision 
would likely meet his overall retirement income need. By transferring, Mr D was very likely to 
obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.  
The advice was given during the Time to Choose period  so I think, on balance, Vale 
shouldve advised Mr D to opt into BSPS2. While Mr D might have said at the time he 
intended to retire at around age 60, I think this was too far in the future to be considered a 
concrete plan. Its possible Mr D wouldnt retire until closer to or at 65. So I don't think that it 
would've been in Mr Ds interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very 
early retirement. The annual indexation of Mr Ds pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2, and by opting into this scheme, Mr D wouldve retained the 
ability to transfer out of the scheme (if his needs demanded it) nearer to retirement.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr D would've gone ahead anyway, against Vales 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr D wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against Vales advice. I say this because, while 
Mr D was motivated to transfer when he approached Vale, on balance, I still think Mr D 
wouldve listened to and followed Vales advice if things had happened as they should have 
and it recommended he stay in the scheme. Mr D was an inexperienced investor who in my 
view neither possessed the necessary knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the 
advice they were given. Furthermore Mr Ds pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provision at the time. So, if Vale had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ds concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If Vale had 
explained that Mr D could meet all of his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, 
I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont think Mr D would have insisted on 
transferring out of his scheme against Vales advice.
In light of the above, I think Vale should compensate Mr D for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
With this in mind, I can see that Vales gesture of goodwill offer it made to Mr D was 
calculated using his pension fund value at the point he transferred to another adviser and 
moved his pension funds. 
It said it believes its liability should be capped at this point - it shouldnt be held responsible for another advisers subsequent investment fund recommendations and increased adviser 
charges.
I think its important to highlight to Vale that, as Ive set out below, the redress calculation 
should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most recent financial 
assumptions at the date of that decision. I consider that Vale is responsible for all of the 
financial loss Mr D has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he received. Had 
suitable advice been given, Mr D would not have transferred out of the scheme and been 
subject to fund charges or adviser charges. So, I think the entirety of his loss flows directly 
from Vales actions. Taking everything into account, I think in the circumstances this 
represents fair compensation for Mr D. 
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £350 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr D. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
Vale  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr D. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr Ds retirement provision is of great importance to him, I think the unsuitable advice has 
caused him distress. So I think an award of £350 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr D whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr D has chosen not to wait for the new rules to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr D.
 A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Vales unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would 
have most likely transferred his benefits into BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. So 
Vale should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.Vale must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, given that Mr D doesnt have any firm plans for retirement at this stage, as per 
the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance, compensation should be based on a normal 
retirement age of 65 in this case. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Vale may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her/their likely 
income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Vale receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Vale to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Vale to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Vale Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited should also pay Mr D £350 in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice has caused
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require
Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Vale Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Vale Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr D can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman