DRN-3778045
The complaint
Mr C complains about mistakes by TSB Bank plc when sending a new cashcard to his 
address.
 
What happened
Mr C has an account with TSB that comes with a cashcard. Mr Cs told us that around two 
years ago TSBs systems got his address wrong. Earlier this year, TSB sent Mr C a new 
cashcard but the house name and number werent included in his address. The cashcard 
was delivered, but Mr C went on to raise a complaint. Mr C explained hes concerned that 
sensitive and private information is being sent out by TSB despite being incorrectly 
addressed. 
TSB sent Mr C a final response and upheld his complaint. TSB gave information about how 
to access its telephone systems. TSB also said it had a systems issue that meant the house 
name and number werent used when sending out the new cashcard. TSB said it had 
updated the address and paid Mr C £75 for the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Cs complaint. They thought TSB had dealt with 
the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr C asked to appeal so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB accepts it has a systems issue that affected Mr Cs profile. As a result, his details 
werent complete when it sent a new cashcard. Im pleased the cashcard was received but 
can understand why Mr C is concerned. TSB is obliged to ensure it keeps customers 
information safe. And I understand Mr C experienced a very similar issue around two years 
ago. 
TSB has provided systems evidence that shows the format of the address it holds for 
correspondence. I can see the address used to send the cashcard was wrong. But TSBs 
systems evidence shows the address has been updated to include the house name and 
number. So Im satisfied that the issue with Mr Cs address has been fixed. 
I understand Mr Cs concern that the issue may reoccur, given its happened before. We 
cant guarantee similar issue wont occur in the future, but the information available indicates 
the issue has now been resolved. And, as Ive said above, the systems evidence provided 
shows Mr Cs correspondence address correctly. 
TSB paid Mr C £75 and apologised for the distress and inconvenience caused. In my view, 
the award fairly reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C and is a fair 
way to resolve his complaint. As Im satisfied TSB has already paid a settlement that is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint because TSB Bank plc has already paid 
a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman