DRN-3784653
The complaint
Mr V, Ms V and Mr V operate a partnership which banks with Lloyds Bank PLC. The 
partnership sold some assets, which had been used as security for borrowing with Lloyds. 
The partnership complains that Lloyds retained £200,000 of the sale price.
What happened
Mr V, Ms V and Mr V operate a partnership which had a considerable amount of secured 
lending from Lloyds Bank PLC, in an industry where a large level of secured lending isnt 
unusual. The partnership wanted to move its banking elsewhere, and as part of that, sought 
to reduce its lending held outside of Lloyds. It sold an asset, which was part of the security 
that Lloyds held. The partnership said when this security had originally been given, the asset 
sold was only a very small percentage of the security. It had greatly increased in value.
The partnership said Lloyds retained £200,000 of the sale price. They didnt think that was
fair, as the amount retained far exceeded the value of this part of the security, when the
security was originally taken. And they said the money Lloyds retained was held in a
separate account where it earned no interest, but the partnership was still being charged for
lending, including on a large overdraft facility.
The partnership also said that it had found its business manager very difficult to deal with.
They said he had been aggressive, and made their interactions stressful. They also felt that
Lloyds had delayed the release of documentation which their new bank needed to see, to
complete the switch.
Lloyds said, as a condition of releasing part of its security for the partnerships borrowing, it
would insist on retaining a cash deposit of £200,000. Lloyds said it appreciated that the
value of the securities it held would have increased since those were first valued, but it said
it was entitled to retain the security it had been given in support of a borrowers borrowing
with it until that borrowing is fully repaid. Lloyds said it had little appetite to take any risk, so it
would continue to rely on the valuations it had.
When our service asked Lloyds about this complaint, it said the security in question had
been valued at £200,000. (This is considerably more than the value the partnership has
suggested.) It said it had decided to support the partnerships move to a different bank, so it
would allow the sale of the security, and the release of some of the money that generated.
But it said it would hold £200,000 (the value it held as security) in a side account whilst the
switch to the other bank went through. As soon as this move was completed, and all Lloyds
lending had been repaid, the £200,000 would be returned to the partnership.
Lloyds said this was a commercial decision that it was entitled to make. It said it holds an all
monies security, so it isnt restricted to taking the amount of money that was the original
valuation of the security, as the partnership had argued. It didnt think it had been unfair.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said the partnership holds a
number of loans with Lloyds, and he said Lloyds held a charge as security over the loans.
He said when security over a debt is sold, a lender will usually release the charge once the
debt has been fully repaid. So Lloyds could have asked for all the sale proceeds. Instead, it
held £200,000, that allowed it to support the partnerships move to another bank but also
protect its security. He didnt think Lloyds had been unfair.
Our investigator also said there was a lack of evidence on the calls between the partnership
and its business manager, so he said it was difficult to make a finding without evidence.
Our investigator didnt think Lloyds had to do any more.
The partnership said that when the security was given, the property was valued at much less
than Lloyds had retained, and they thought the retention shouldnt be more than the original
valuation. But our investigator said Lloyds charge remained over the property regardless of
whether the value increased or decreased over time.
The partnership wrote again, to say that the property sold was only 2% of the value of the
secured assets, according to the original valuation, but Lloyds had held back enough to clear
a very significantly greater percentage of the partnerships debt. That meant the partnership
didnt have enough to cover things like the tax on this gain. And the partnership said that the
money retained was not used to reduce the partnerships debts, so they still paid interest on
all of their pre-existing borrowing while Lloyds kept this retention.
The partnership also said it didnt think it was a coincidence that their business manager
hadnt recorded his calls.
The partnership wanted an ombudsman to consider their complaint, so the case was passed
to me for a decision. I then reached my first provisional decision on this case.
My first provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I know the partnership thinks that Lloyds shouldnt have kept back so much money 
when it agreed to the sale of the property. But I dont think that the security the 
partnership gave to Lloyds restricts it to only the original value (or part of the valuation) 
which was given several years ago, when the mortgage was first signed. I do think 
Lloyds could have asked for all the money from the sale of the property. So I think it was 
a reasonable compromise for Lloyds to say it would retain £200,000 of those sale 
proceeds, until the partnership moved to a new bank.
But now I want to think about how this money was held, while the partnership was trying 
to set up new banking arrangements. The partnership said the money was in a separate
account, which it couldnt access, and which wasnt paying any interest. Meanwhile, 
Lloyds continued to charge interest on all the partnerships lending, which far exceeded 
this amount.
Lloyds said that holding money in this way is just a short term solution, which it thinks is 
suitable when someones looking to change bank. I make no comment on the wider 
policy here, as, in line with the role of our service, Im only looking at the particular 
circumstances of this case. And I think its relevant to this case that Lloyds was aware in 
mid-2021, when it set up this arrangement, that the partnership had been trying to 
negotiate and complete a move to another bank since 2018. So this may not have been 
a short term arrangement.I understand that this move was actually completed in mid-2022. So, during the months 
that the partnership sought to complete its change in business banking, it was still 
paying interest, including on a large overdraft.
That overdraft does appear to me to have been secured by the mortgaged property. The 
mortgage document I have seen says the security is held against all liabilities of the 
mortgagor  so the security isnt just held against the business loans. The mortgage 
document expressly references money owing on any current account. 
For the above reasons, I think in the circumstances of this case, it was not reasonable 
for Lloyds to place a retention of £200,000 in a holding account which paid no interest, 
whilst continuing to charge interest on a current account overdraft far exceeding this 
sum. I think Lloyds should repay to the partnership all the interest it charged on 
£200,000 of the partnerships overdraft lending whilst this retention was held.
To achieve this, Lloyds must recalculate interest on the partnerships overdraft as if it 
had been reduced by £200,000 throughout the time that the retention was held, and 
refund any overpayment. It must return any overpaid interest to the partnership, plus 8% 
simple interest from the date that the overpaid interest was charged.
The partnership said it felt Lloyds business manager was rude and aggressive on the 
phone. But the calls he made werent recorded, so we have no independent evidence 
on this point. The partnership thought it wasnt a coincidence that these calls werent 
recorded, but I think it is likely to be because this job may be more mobile than other 
banking roles. And I cant see that the partnership had complained about this individual 
before, so its not clear to me that Lloyds ought to have considered it prudent to keep 
evidence of calls to the partnership.
On balance, considering the limited evidence we do have, Im not able to uphold the 
partnerships complaint on this particular point.
The partnership said it also thought Lloyds had delayed in sharing documents that the 
partnership needed to show its new bank, in order to move its banking away from 
Lloyds. I have seen that Lloyds wanted to be sure it had the relevant undertakings in 
place, to make sure the documents were returned. And it also appears that these 
documents may have been needed by solicitors acting in the sale of the security, before 
they could be shared with the new bank. But I havent been able to see that Lloyds 
caused a delay here, so Im also not able to uphold the partnerships complaint on this 
particular point.
My provisional view is that Lloyds needs to rework the partnerships overdraft in the way 
set out above, in order to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied. And those replies made me change my mind, so I then issued a second 
provisional decision.
My second provisional decision
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint, in which I set out the replies Id 
received to the first provisional decision, and explained why, having considered those 
replies, I had changed my mind. I still proposed to uphold this complaint, but now thought the 
award needed to be different. This is what I said then: 
Mr V replied on behalf of the partnership, to say they were happy to accept my decision.Lloyds replied, to disagree. It set out the background to the partnerships recent 
relationship with it, including that it had declined further lending in 2019, and that the 
partnership had then complained about the break costs of a number of fixed rate loans. 
The partnership had been clear that if this complaint was upheld, it intended to move 
banks. The complaint was upheld, and the notes make clear Lloyds considered it was in 
its interest for the partnership to change banks. If this wasnt completed, then Lloyds 
had told the partnership it intended to reduce the partnerships overdraft lending.
Lloyds then set out its response in some detail. It wanted to make clear that the 
partnership had agreed to money being held in a separate account as security. Lloyds 
said it was always part of the agreement for it to release its charge on land the 
partnership wanted to sell, that this money would be placed in an account that wasnt 
interest bearing.
I accept that the conditions Lloyds was applying to any agreement to release its charge 
on part of the land held by the partnership were clear from the outset. But its not clear 
to me that the partnership actually had any choice in the matter. It doesnt appear to 
have had a good working relationship with Lloyds, after the refusal of further lending and 
a complaint upheld against Lloyds. And the partnership had to sell this land, in order to 
be able to move bank. The only way for the partnership to achieve that appears to have 
been to accept the conditions that Lloyds set on releasing the charge. So I dont think 
Lloyds point, that the partnership had agreed to this from the outset, changes my view 
of this case.
Lloyds also said it thought it was fair and reasonable to treat the cash released by the 
sale in the same way as a security over land. It said that security over land doesnt earn 
interest either. And Lloyds said it wasnt unusual for a rebank this complicated to take 
some time. All securities on the account were closed on 28 February 2022, and Lloyds 
wrote to confirm this on 1 March 2022.
Lloyds didnt think any redress was appropriate in this case, because it didnt think there 
had been a mistake. But it said that if I still thought redress was necessary, then it didnt 
think what I had proposed was fair.
Lloyds said that because this money was being held as security, it couldnt be used to 
reduce lending. Thats the same as land, which also cant be used to reduce lending 
unless its sold. Lloyds said it would be not be appropriate to alter the partnerships 
position in relation to a separate product and issue, the overdraft. So Lloyds said that if it 
did have to pay something, then it should only pay the interest this money could have 
earned in its instant access savings account. It said interest applied to holdings with the 
bank is different to fees applied to a debt. And it said that paying interest in this way 
would keep the overdraft and the security arrangement separate, and deal with my 
concerns that it wasnt reasonable to hold funds which paid no interest.
But Lloyds said its core position remained that it hadnt made a mistake. Lloyds said that 
it had fully informed the partnership of how this arrangement would work, and security
arrangements arent interest bearing. It said that ultimately, like any land-linked 
security, a customer cannot accrue interest or use the value of a liquid security 
arrangement to reduce its liabilities for different products.
Like Lloyds, I do think its possible to make a comparison between land held as security 
and money held as security. But I do not make the same comparison.The land which Lloyds held as security wasnt simply sitting there providing that security 
for lending. It was put to work by the partnership, as part of its business, and the 
partnership derived an obvious benefit from that land, separate to its function as a 
security. The land was, to put it simply, working for the business. But once some of this 
land was sold, that position ceased, because Lloyds required the liquid asset to be used 
solely as security. This removed the partnerships ability to use its asset.
At the same time, Lloyds had been clear that it wanted to reduce the partnerships 
overdraft, and that it would require this if the partnership wasnt able to rebank. So its 
still not clear to me (other than that Lloyds process doesnt work like this) why Lloyds 
could not, as an alternative, have required the partnership to apply these funds against 
its overdraft, and made a reduction of the borrowing available there a condition of the 
sale. Its exposure to risk would have remained the same, but the partnerships position 
would have been much improved, as it would have been paying less to service a debt.
So I havent currently changed my mind on this part of the partnerships complaint.
But Lloyds also sent through further evidence. And this evidence called into question my
conclusions on the partnerships final complaint point. 
The partnerships complaint included the allegation that Lloyds have also held up our 
move to another bank by not allowing our solicitor to see our deeds of unregistered land 
which needs to be used as security for the new bank."
In my first provisional decision, I didnt uphold this complaint point, as I hadnt seen 
anything to suggest that Lloyds caused any delay. However, the further evidence that 
Lloyds sent included an agreement to extend the lending because the rebank hadnt yet 
been completed. And the reasons for agreeing the extension included this  Potential 
delay due to LBG securities delay in locating unregistered land documents which have 
been requested by Natwest solicitors. I am advised these are now en route.
So I wrote to Lloyds again to ask about this. It has replied, denying any responsibility for
delays, and providing extensive evidence of the correspondence between itself and the
partnerships solicitors. I think there is some evidence of confusion around the initial 
request, and emails not being sent to the right contact in Lloyds, which caused some 
delays. I dont think that its fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for those.
But the timeline that Lloyds has sent to our service suggests that it was aware of the 
request for unregistered deeds on 16 November 2021. It searched for additional 
documents, and supplied these to the partnerships new solicitors on 1 December 2021. 
I think that is a reasonable amount of time for Lloyds to take, to locate those deeds. So I 
think the deeds should have been supplied then.
Unfortunately, what Lloyds sent on 1 December 2021 appears to have been previous 
correspondence about the security. It was not the deeds themselves. So these were 
requested again, and they werent located and issued to the partnerships solicitors until
around 19 January.
I think that, because Lloyds didnt send these deeds to the partnerships solicitors on 1
December, but only sent them on 19 January, it caused a delay of seven weeks in the
partnerships rebank away from Lloyds. Although I understand that Lloyds firmly denies 
this, it does still appear to me to have accepted this, when it extended the partnerships 
overdraft in early 2022.I asked the partnership about the financial impact this had on them, and they said that 
they were actually paying slightly more in interest with their new bank, so I dont think 
that Lloyds has to refund any interest it charged during this time.
But I also note that the documents Lloyds apparently misplaced appear to have been
unregistered property deeds belonging to the partnership. Those are, themselves, the 
proof of title for property. They are not easily replaced. If they cannot be located then it 
may be many years before the owner of the land is able to prove good title again, and 
regain the full value of the land.
For some time, the partnership feared these were lost. I think that is likely to have added
greatly to the stress of an already difficult time, and an already strained relationship 
between the partnership and the bank. And for that reason, I now think that Lloyds 
should pay £200 in compensation, in addition to the interest I have already suggested it 
should pay.
Once again, I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my 
final decision. And again, both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it still didnt agree with what Id said. But it said it had made all of its 
representations and didnt have any further information to provide. So it said it would be 
happy to make a commercial offer to settle, in line with the redress Id suggested, and it said 
it could work out how much that would be for us, and for the partnership, if we would like. 
The partnership simply replied to say it accepted my decision. 
I note Lloyds suggestion that it would make an offer to settle this complaint, but I continue to 
think that an award is the appropriate way to resolve this matter. Neither side has offered 
any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind about the makeup of that 
award. So Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must recalculate interest on the overdraft held by 
Mr V, Ms V and Mr V, as if it had been reduced by £200,000 throughout the time that the 
retention was held, and refund any overpayment. Lloyds Bank PLC must return any overpaid 
interest to Mr V, Ms V and Mr V, plus 8% simple interest from the date that the overpaid 
interest was charged. 
(HM Revenue and Customs requires Lloyds Bank PLC to take off tax from this interest. 
Lloyds Bank PLC must give Mr V, Ms V and Mr V, a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if they ask for one.)
My final decision is also that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr V, Ms V and Mr V £200 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman