DRN-2331091
complaint
Mr K says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against the policy seller directly because the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has taken on that responsibility. To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA has told us Mr K paid just under £18 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy. 
Mr K bought the PPI at a meeting in 1997 at the same time as taking a store card. He was 
employed at the time as a production controller and had been there two years. Hes told us 
he was entitled to 12 months or more pay for sickness or redundancy. His length of service 
makes me think it unlikely this was 12 months or more of his full pay  and Ive nothing else 
to suggest this either. Aside from his work benefits Mr K has told us he didnt have any other 
means, like savings, to pay his card with if he couldnt work.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident, sickness and unemployment, and life cover, 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 15% of Mr Ks card balance. It cost at the time no more than £1 per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful claim 
and attracted interest. The life cover, subject to its terms, would clear the balance on death. 
The policy also provided purchase cover. Mr K hasnt complained about this element of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider it further in this decision. 
Mr K has told us of a health issue that started around the time of this sale which hes said is 
still an ongoing problem. We asked but didnt receive more details about this and aside from 
broken bones hed suffered almost ten years or more before the sale Mr K hasnt told us of 
having suffered any other health issues before the sale.
Mr Ks representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Ks 
representative says:
The information Mr K received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a successful 
claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means AXA should have told Mr K about the 
poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr K and the impact they would 
have had on his chances of making a claim; and
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr K wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ks representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks complaint.
This sale took place in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
Among other things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI), members undertake to enforce this Code and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance & Leasing Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code was introduced in 1992 and set out standards of good practice for the finance and 
leasing industry. Section 4 of the code covered Credit Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA) should have complied with its code when selling PPI, and this extends 
to when it was acting as an agent of the insurer. 
So Im satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance when 
considering Mr Ks complaint. key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If AXA gave advice, whether it advised Mr K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs and 
circumstances. 
- Whether AXA gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice about whether to take the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr K, I must 
then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr K suffered loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr K and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr K know he had a choice?
AXA had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr K hasnt said anything to make me think 
this wasnt made clear or that he was pressured into the cover. Also the credit agreement 
had a separate Payment & Purchase Protection section with a box to tick if the cover was 
wanted. On Mr Ks agreement, which he signed to take the card, this box was ticked - and I 
think he wouldve known that if he didnt want the cover the box for it shouldnt be ticked. 
Also, nothing on the agreement says that the PPI had to be taken or that the box for it had to 
be ticked if the cover wasnt wanted. Taking everything into account, I think its more likely 
Mr K knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Taking into account also what Mr K has 
said, Im persuaded AXA didnt provide advice. This means AXA didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mr K. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
AXA has provided us with Mr Ks credit agreement  showing PPI had been selected. Ive 
also seen policy terms and conditions which I accept - on a balance of probabilities - applied 
to policies like Mr Ks. Looking at the information provided to Mr K at the time, I dont think 
AXA gave him the information he fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take the policy. 
This sale took place at a meeting. I dont know what AXA told Mr K about the PPI, but I think 
it unlikely he wouldve agreed to take it without having at least a broad understanding of the 
cover it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think its 
unlikely Mr K wouldve thought it was free.I also bear in mind that next to the PPI tick box on Mr Ks credit agreement it said: Please 
debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice  which wouldve 
also let Mr K know the PPI wasnt free. Also, above the PPI tick box, it said the PPI covers 
your Account Card repayments in the event of sickness, accident, involuntary unemployment 
or loss of life  which wouldve also given Mr K an idea of what the cover was for.
But it was AXAs responsibility to draw to Mr Ks attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations 
which might be relevant to his decision. 
I dont think its likely AXA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr K, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont think AXA gave Mr K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice about whether to take the policy, including drawing to his attention 
and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy 
and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Ks representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ks. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr Ks representative considers to be poor value. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in 
the way Mr K has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr K? To what extent did he suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr K. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not he would have 
still taken the policy, had AXA done things properly. Mr K says he would not have taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr K had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr K chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr K thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr K ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance. But, I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr K didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr K thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to health issues Mr K knew or ought to have known 
about or which he had asked about or received advice or treatment for from a registered 
medical practitioner in the 12 months before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations excluded, unemployment cover if Mr K wasnt 
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr K be stopped from doing his 
own or any similar job, and stopped from doing any paid work his experience, education 
or training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr K pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr K from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to him should the insured 
risks have become a reality. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr K might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr K 
from taking the policy, Mr K, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it.
Mr K couldnt have claimed for work absences related to the bones hed broken almost ten 
years or more before the sale  or related to his more recent health issue if it started before the sale. But what I have isnt enough to persuade me Mr K wouldve thought work absences 
arising from his most recent issue were so likely the policy wouldnt be worth taking if it didnt 
cover these  and what hes told us about his earlier issues, including how long before the 
sale they were, and the lack of anything to suggest they caused problems later, makes me 
think it unlikely he wouldve thought himself at much risk of missing work in future due to 
those past issues. So I dont think these wouldve changed Mr Ks decision to take the policy.
Mr K didnt have any other health issues and Ive nothing to suggest he was affected by any 
of the other significant exclusions  he was in permanent employment for example. So, with 
this and all Ive said above in mind, I think he still had some good reasons to take the policy.
If Mr K had known he could only claim for disability if he were stopped from doing his own or 
any similar job, and stopped from doing any paid work his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking about what to do. And I 
accept it may have given him pause for thought  although, given his circumstances, on 
balance I think he wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely than 
not Mr K wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what he thought he was 
getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding his 
employment benefits. And, in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not he 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to conclude there 
were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr K would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ks 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr K 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr K in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. That is because, while I accept its possible Mr K would not have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not he would still have taken the 
PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay Mr K compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr K thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information AXA gave Mr K, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ks representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr K and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr K in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman