DRN-2058795
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
The subject of this complaint is the two loans Mrs C took with Satsuma in 2019. She had 
applied for, and been rejected, for two loans in 2014 and 2016, but these were long enough 
ago that they are not relevant to this complaint.
Loan 1 was for £400 on 29 March 2019, repayable over six months at about £126 each 
month commencing 23 May 2019. Loan 2 was for £500 on 5 June 2019 repayable over six 
months at about £158 each month and the first instalment was due 23 July 2019.
Mrs C paid the first instalment on Loan 1 and missed the second instalment. This meant that 
on the 23 July 2019 Mrs C was facing repayments of £126 x 2 on Loan 1 and the first 
instalment on Loan 2. These added up to £404. Mrs C complained to Satsuma on 
2 July 2019 and received its final response letter (FRL) dated 25 July 2019. Mrs C brought 
her complaint to this service on 29 July 2019.
After that Mrs C asked for a repayment schedule and Satsuma agreed to 790 monthly 
repayments of £1 each starting 23 October 2019 for Loan 2. This translates into 
approximately 66 years to repay the outstanding sums, with her credit file registering that 
debt and regulatory letters needing to be sent to her for all that time.
When Satsuma sent to us its submissions in October 2019, it offered to write off the interest 
of £448.00 applied to Loan 2 leaving an outstanding capital balance of £342.00. Satsuma 
also offered to remove any adverse data shared on this agreement once the remaining 
capital balance had been repaid.
On 25 November 2019 Mrs C received a default letter in relation to Loan 1, and a demand 
for full instalment amounts to be paid. She wrote to Satsuma to say that she needed a 
repayment plan on that loan as well at £1 a month to match the other repayment plan. She 
had already informed Satsuma of ill health and in this email she explained that she had lost 
her job in December 2019. She was going to apply for benefits. 
I do not know if that second repayment plan was set up, but I have seen an up-to-date 
statement of that account which shows that Mrs C has paid towards Loan 1 up to May 2020 
and sometimes more than £1.
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Satsuma had not done 
anything wrong by approving the loans and yet, at the same time, put the offer in relation to 
Loan 2 to Mrs C. This did not result in a resolution of the complaint and it was passed to me 
for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 June 2020 and my provisional findings are set out 
below. Since then, both Satsuma and Mrs C have accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term and high cost lending 
- including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Both Mrs C and Satsuma have accepted the provisional decision findings and outcome and 
so I see no reason to depart from those earlier findings which are set out here and form part 
of this final decision. 
My provisional findings dated 29 June 2020
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include: where a 
customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are particularly high; and/or where the 
frequency of the loans and the length of time over which a customer has been given loans need to be 
looked at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mrs C could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the ability to repay without undue 
difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower will not be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint. I am issuing a provisional decision which is that I plan to 
uphold Loan 2 and that Satsuma needs to put things right for her. The effect of this uphold will not 
substantially alter the practical outcome for Mrs C as Satsuma has already agreed to put things right 
for her in relation to Loan 2.
I have several reasons for coming to this provisional decision. Loan 2 overlapped with Loan 1 and so 
the indebtedness for Mrs C was going to be increased, both in relation to length of time in debt and 
amounts repayable. Satsuma's records show that 'An additional £331.41 of safe guards have been 
applied to the customers expenditure to reflect electronic information gathered from the Credit Bureau 
and based on internal models'. This demonstrates to me that Satsuma had seen her other debts and 
felt it had to add in the safeguard sum of over £331. On its own, its not likely that this would be 
enough to prompt additional enquires but there are other aspects which, all together, do lead me to 
think that Satsuma ought to have made some.
Mrs C has sent us a payslip for July 2019 and I can see that her basic pay was about £1,038 each 
month. Her P60 for the tax year 18-19 shows she earned about £15,000 for that year. Additional 
income was usually due to her doing extra shifts or particular types of additional work. Satsuma has said that it checked her declared income of £1,600 (after tax) each month and that it was satisfied - 
but I cannot see how these facts match up. So it seems to me that this Loan 2 was likely unaffordable.
Another element, is that in between taking Loan 1 and applying for Loan 2, Mrs C had a County Court 
Judgment against her. And I have looked at the credit bureau results carried out by Satsuma before 
Loan 2 and I can see from that it states:
'Outcome Summary - Decline' and 'Months since CCJ = 2 agreement outside Lending policy'.
 
Account notes show that it needed to carry out some manual checks before approving the loan.
As I have pointed out earlier, Satsuma has conceded on Loan 2 and so I do not think that I need to go 
into too much more detail. I am planning to uphold the complaint for Loan 2.
The repayment plan. 
As I am planning to uphold Loan 2, then I have considered the particular circumstances surrounding 
Mrs C's employment and her current situation, her health, her likelihood of returning to work plus her 
arrears in several priority bills including her rent. These are a concern and Mrs C has sent in a lot of 
evidence about all these factors, some of which I am not referring to for confidentiality.
The plan for her to repay Loan 2 over 66 years was not a realistic prospect and even with the new 
figures of around £350 I consider it to be the same as this translates into 29 years. It would mean that 
for each of those months over all of those years Mrs C will be in danger of receiving a default letter or 
for debt collection agents to be instructed. It's too much of a burden for an extremely long time, and 
I am, in these particular circumstances, planning to direct that Satsuma writes off the capital sum part 
of the debt for Loan 2 as well as the interest which it has offered to do already. The redress section 
below reflects this.
Putting things right
Satsuma should do as follows: 
refund any interest and charges already paid by Mrs C in respect Loan 2; and
if relevant, apply 8% simple interest per year to any interest and charges refunded 
from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove all unpaid fees and charges from Loan 2;
write off the capital sum for Loan 2;
remove any adverse payment information about the loan from Mrs Cs credit file;
As I know that Mrs C still owes money on Loan 1, then Satsuma ought to rework the account 
to ensure that any payments on Loan 2 to date, are put towards the debt owed on Loan 1.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest and it must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint in part and direct that Provident Personal 
Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, does as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman