DRN-2754153
The complaint
Ms N and Mr M complain Aviva Life and Pensions UK Limited unfairly declined their critical 
illness claim and avoided their joint life and critical illness policies. They are represented by a 
claims management company, but to keep things simple Ill refer only to Ms N and Mr M. 
What happened
On the advice of an independent financial adviser (IFA), Ms N and Mr M took out a joint life 
policy and a joint critical illness (CIC) policy with Aviva in February 2020. The joint CIC 
policy included childrens life, critical illness and hospital stay cover. 
Sadly, in April 2020 their son M had a cardiac arrest. Ms N and Mr M made a claim under 
their joint CIC policy and Aviva paid £3,000 for Ms hospital stay. While assessing whether 
anything was payable under the policys childrens critical illness benefit, information in their 
son Ms medical records made Aviva think Mr M hadnt correctly disclosed his alcohol 
consumption history in his policy application, because he answered no when asked Have 
you ever attended, or been advised to attend a support service or had therapy, treatment or 
counselling with the aim of reducing your alcohol intake?, and Has a doctor, or any other 
health or social worker, been concerned about your drinking or suggested that you cut 
down?
Aviva said it wouldnt have offered either policy if Mr M hadnt made this misrepresentation. 
Aviva avoided both Ms N and Mr Ms joint life policy and their joint critical illness policy 
(treated them as if theyd never existed) and declined the childrens critical illness claim. 
Aviva refunded the premiums already paid towards the policies. 
Ms N and Mr M complained to Aviva, but it didnt change its position. So, they contacted our 
service. Ms N and Mr M said the IFA hadnt asked them any health questions when they 
applied for the policy. They thought Aviva had asked for more medical information than it 
should have when they claimed under the policy. They also thought Aviva would still have 
offered Ms N her own policy, and suggested a claim for childrens critical illness benefit 
would have been successful had she had her own policy. To support their argument, they 
highlighted previous ombudsman decisions and a report The Law Commission presented to 
Parliament in 2009. Ms N and Mr M said Aviva caused them distress and financial difficulty 
when M was critically ill. They wanted Aviva to set up a single CIC policy for Ms N 
retrospectively, pay the childrens critical illness claim plus 8% interest, and pay 
compensation for their distress. 
Aviva said the joint policies were taken out with an acceptance of joint liability for any 
misrepresentations made by either of the applicants and any qualifying misrepresentation by 
either of the joint policyholders allowed it to avoid both polices in their entirety, provided it 
wouldnt have offered cover but for the misrepresentation. Aviva said it wasnt obliged to 
retrospectively offer a policy in the sole name of Ms N, and if Mr M hadnt misrepresented his 
alcohol consumption, it wouldnt have automatically given Ms N a policy, because Mr M and 
Ms Ns IFA would have needed to reassess their needs and ability to get joint policies in light 
of Mr Ms alcohol consumption history. If Mr M couldnt get cover, it wasnt known if and 
when Ms N would have applied, whether her health would have changed and whether shed 
have applied to Aviva. 
Our investigator said Aviva had acted in line with the relevant law. He noted Aviva hadnt 
sold the policies, so he wouldnt expect it to have offered an alternative policy in the 
circumstances. He also noted Aviva had confirmed it wasnt asking Ms N and Mr M to repay 
the £3,000 hospital stay benefit it had paid them.
Ms N and Mr M disagreed. They reiterated some of the points theyd previously made. And 
said the relevant guidance meant insurers should only ask for medical information beyond 
the medical condition and circumstances giving rise to the claim if they think there might 
have been a misrepresentation. They questioned what made Aviva think there might have 
been a misrepresentation. But our investigator didnt change his view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying how sorry I am to hear of Ms health problems and the financial 
difficulties Ms N and Mr M have told us about. I dont doubt this has caused Ms N and 
Mr M and their family a very great deal of distress. But while I dont wish to cause them any 
further distress, Im not upholding this complaint. I know this isnt the answer Ms N and Mr M 
hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons. 
I must be clear that this decision only considers the actions of Aviva, the insurer. Im not 
considering the sale of Ms N and Mr Ms policies, as Aviva wasnt responsible for that. If 
Ms N and Mr M are unhappy with the sale of their policies, theyd need to complain to the 
IFA that sold them. If Ms N and Mr M remain unhappy with its response, they could then 
refer that mis-sale complaint to our service for an impartial investigation. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the 
qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by not 
disclosing his alcohol consumption history. Ive looked at the relevant application questions 
Mr M was asked. For clarity, these were:
Have you ever attended, or been advised to attend a support service or had therapy, 
treatment or counselling with the aim of reducing your alcohol intake?Has a doctor, or any other health or social worker, been concerned about your drinking 
or suggested that you cut down?
I think these questions were clear. Mr M answered no to both of them. However, Mr Ms 
medical records show this wasnt the correct answer to either question. I say that because 
the record of Mr Ms visit to his GP dated 5 April 2019 noted Mr M had been drinking half a 
bottle of whisky every two days but had stopped the previous week. The GP referred Mr M to 
an alcohol support service. In their cover letter to Aviva, the GP confirmed this was their only 
encounter with Mr M regarding alcohol intake and that Mr M states he no longer drinks. That 
may be so. But on the occasion that is recorded in Mr Ms medical records, its clear Mr Ms 
GP was concerned enough about Mr Ms alcohol consumption to have referred him to an 
alcohol support service.
Ive seen that Aviva separately wrote to Ms N and Mr M to ask them to check their policy 
application answers. The letter to Mr M says We've enclosed your personal details 
confirmation. This shows the details given to us for the application with Aviva. Please check 
your details. It's really important you check through this document to make sure the 
information shown is correct. The first page of the personal details confirmation says It's 
important all the information shown here is correct. If anything's wrong, we may amend, or 
cancel the policy, or we may not pay a claim., and goes on to list the applications questions 
Mr M was asked together with the answers submitted on his behalf. So I think Aviva gave 
Mr M the opportunity to check the application answers and made it reasonably clear why it 
was important he do so. I note Ms N and Mr M acknowledge they didnt check their 
application answers.
Ms N and Mr M are concerned Aviva asked for more medical information than it should have 
when they made their claim. The relevant industry guidance here is Misrepresentation and 
Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and 
Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019 
(2019 ABI code). It says insurers should only ask for medical information beyond that 
needed to assess whether the insured event has occurred if and to the extent that the 
circumstances of the claim reasonably prompt the insurer to believe there might have been 
misrepresentation by the customer. 
In this case, I can see some of Ms medical records, which Aviva was entitled to see as part 
of its assessment of Ms N and Mr Ms claim for M, contain an entry expressing concern 
regarding Mr Ms alcohol consumption. As Mr M had answered no to the two alcohol 
questions in his policy application, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude Mr M 
might have made a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy. Aviva told Ms N and 
Mr M of its concerns and asked Mr Ms permission to contact his GP for information, which 
Mr M gave. Aviva asked Mr Ms GP for information only relating to his alcohol consumption. 
And it contacted Ms N and Mr M to understand the reasons for the misrepresentation. So I 
think Aviva acted fairly here and in line with the 2019 ABI code. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva to conclude Mr M didnt take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he applied for the policy. Im also 
satisfied this misrepresentation made a difference. Aviva has provided me with its 
underwriting criteria and comments from its underwriter. Having considered these, Im 
satisfied Aviva wouldnt have offered Ms N and Mr M joint policies if Mr M hadnt made this 
misrepresentation. Therefore, I think it was a qualifying misrepresentation.
CIDRA says a qualifying misrepresentation can be categorised as either careless or 
deliberate or reckless. Aviva has categorised this misrepresentation as deliberate or 
reckless. Under this category, CIDRA says Aviva is entitled to avoid the policy and keep the 
premiums that have been paid, unless it is unfair for it to keep the premiums. Ms N and Mr M argue the misrepresentation was careless and a proportionate remedy is 
appropriate in this case. But, even if I accepted Mr Ms misrepresentation was careless, Im 
satisfied Avivas underwriting shows it wouldnt have offered Mr M cover if not for his 
misrepresentation. That means under CIDRA, Aviva would still be entitled to avoid the joint 
policies. This means no claims would be payable under those policies. CIDRA would require 
Aviva to refund the premiums in this situation, but I note Aviva has done this anyway. 
This means that for either category of misrepresentation, Aviva has acted in line with CIDRA. 
Therefore, I dont think Aviva needs to do anything further regarding either this claim or Ms N 
and Mr Ms joint policies. 
I note Aviva has decided not to ask for repayment of the £3,000 hospital stay benefit it paid 
to Ms N and Mr M. This is something Aviva can itself choose to do. I dont think the fact that 
Aviva hasnt asked Ms N and Mr M to repay the hospital stay benefit has caused them any 
detriment or makes any difference to its right to avoid their policies.  
Ms N and Mr M think Aviva would still have offered Ms N her own policy under which a claim 
for childrens critical illness benefit would have been paid. They think this means Aviva 
should now do this and pay what would be due on the claim. Ive considered CIDRA in 
thinking about this, but CIDRA doesnt say insurers have to put a single policy in place in 
circumstances like this. 
Ive also considered the relevant industry guidance here which, as I say, is the 2019 ABI 
code. The examples given in the 2019 ABI code suggest that if a policy is a joint policy, the 
insurer can apply the principles of CIDRA to the whole policy. So Im satisfied theres nothing 
that obliges Aviva to put a single policy in place for Ms N in this particular case.
Aviva says that if Mr M hadnt made a misrepresentation, it wouldnt simply have chosen to 
put a single policy in place for Ms N, as Ms N and Mr M suggest. It says Ms N and Mr Ms 
IFA would instead have needed to reassess their needs and ability to get a joint policy in 
light of Mr Ms alcohol consumption history. If Mr M wasnt able to get cover, it didnt know if 
and when Ms N would have applied again on her own, whether her health would have 
changed, or whether shed have applied to Aviva for a policy at all. 
I accept Aviva wouldnt have just set up a single policy for Ms N. This is because Aviva 
wasnt acting as Ms N and Mr Ms adviser here, and it didnt know their wants, needs or 
circumstances. Instead its reasonable to think Ms N and Mr M would have needed to go 
back to their IFA to discuss those things again and get further recommendations. Its 
uncertain if and when Ms N might then have applied for single policies, or to which insurers, 
or what her circumstances would be at that time. And, in any event, as Ive already said, 
irrespective of what Aviva might have done, it was not obliged under CIDRA to set up a 
policy in Ms Ns name once it found it was entitled to avoid the joint policies. 
Ms N and Mr M have highlighted ombudsman decisions which, in their view, means Aviva 
should set up a single policy for Ms N. But some of these arent relevant here, as they 
concern different financial products and different circumstances to Ms N and Mr Ms. 
Regardless, our service considers the particular circumstances of each individual complaint. 
Therefore, the decisions Ms N and Mr M have highlighted dont change the conclusions Ive 
reached in my decision.
Ms N and Mr M also provided a report presented by The Law Commission to Parliament in 
2009. The report as a whole recommends a new statute to address the issue of what a 
consumer must tell an insurer before taking out insurance. Ultimately such a statute later came into force in the form of CIDRA. And CIDRA is the law I have taken into account in my 
consideration of this complaint. 
Our approach is in line with the legal position under CIDRA, and we normally consider the 
approach under CIDRA to be fair and reasonable. As Ive already explained, CIDRA doesnt 
require an insurer to retrospectively put a single policy in place in these circumstances. So 
thats the law, and Ive seen no reason to make me think it would be fair and reasonable to 
depart from that law.  
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong. Therefore, 
its not appropriate for me to tell Aviva to do anything further, although I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Ms N and Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman