DRN-2529345
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the price Swinton Group Ltd charged him for his car insurance at 
renewal.
What happened
In early 2018, Mr M made a complaint about his 2017 car insurance renewal and 
received £100 as a gesture of goodwill from Swinton
In June 2018, Mr Ms policy automatically renewed
In July 2018, Mr M called up Swinton as he was unhappy with the renewal price. A new 
(cheaper) quote was discussed, but Mr M didnt take out this cover at that time
In January 2019, Mr M called up to complain about the cost of his insurance. He wanted 
Swinton to honour the quote he got in July 2018 and provide a reimbursement
Swinton didnt agree to this and didnt uphold Mr Ms subsequent complaint about it
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. She set out that she could 
only consider the 2019 complaint, not the 2018 one. She said she was satisfied Mr M didnt 
take out a new policy in July 2018 and so she didnt think Swinton was required to honour 
that price in January 2019. 
Mr M responded and said he wanted us to look into both the 2018 and 2019 complaints 
together as Swinton had excessively increased his premium both years, despite agreeing in 
2018 the increase was excessive. 
Our investigator explained that she wouldnt be looking into the 2018 complaint. And she set 
out that Mr M was sent renewal documents in May 2018, so had the opportunity to contact 
Swinton about the renewal price before the policy renewed. She also set out that he had the 
opportunity to insure elsewhere if he was unhappy with the price. 
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He provided further information 
including paperwork from Swinton going back to 2013 and said he wanted us to investigate 
Swintons continued overcharging of premiums.
I wrote out to Mr M and explained that I would only be looking into the 2019 complaint, not 
the earlier complaint or a wider complaint going back beyond the 2018 renewal. I also set 
out the rules around what an insurer has to do at renewal and said I could see Swinton had 
followed these rules. And I didnt agree Swinton had accepted the 2017 increase was 
excessive. I confirmed Id be issuing a decision on the case shortly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and so have 
decided not to uphold the complaint for these reasons: 
The renewal paperwork Mr M was sent by Swinton in May 2018 makes it clear what his 
policy is going to cost for the year, alongside the total cost  as hes chosen to pay 
monthly. Mr M has provided us with a copy of this letter. So Im satisfied this was set out 
to him before he renewed.
This letter also explains to Mr M that, as hes been with Swinton a number of years, he 
may be able to get the insurance at a better price if he shopped around. So Swinton has 
done what it needed to and it has set out to Mr M he may not be getting the best price on 
the market for the cover he wants.
As Mr M didnt take out the quote he discussed in July 2018, this isnt a price he was 
later entitled to receive. Mr M needed to accept this quote in July 2018 if he wanted it, 
which theres no evidence he did.
Swinton has no obligation to offer Mr M a cheaper quote seven months into his cover. 
When he allowed his policy to automatically renew and didnt take up the July 2018 
quote, he lost this opportunity for a lower premium.
Swinton has explained that the price offered to Mr M at renewal was the most 
competitive price available at that time. I havent seen anything to suggest this was 
untrue or that it overcharged Mr M for what it could offer.
I accept Mr M has now been able to get cover substantially cheaper elsewhere. But 
Swinton did warn him this could be the case in its 2018 renewal letter. So Im not asking 
it to provide a refund to Mr M now, when he didnt act on this warning and look at other 
cover before his policy renewed.
I appreciate Mr M has picked up on other wording the letter which he says gave him 
false confidence in Swinton. But as Ive set out above, the letter is clear about his 
options, so I cant say that Swinton is at fault if he focussed on the marketing aspects of 
the letter and ignored the message about shopping around.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman