DRN-2925606
The complaint
Mrs A, Mr A and Mr A complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with claims against 
their travel insurance policy. Reference to AXA includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs A, Mr A and Mr A had an annual travel insurance policy 
with AXA which started in July 2019. They had a trip planned for February 2020 but had 
to cancel the trip as Mrs A had an injury. They made a claim against their policy (the 
first claim). AXA settled the first claim on 14 March 2020 on payment of £1,483.62. 
Subsequently, there was a second claim against the policy. AXA declined the part of the 
second claim which related to accommodation costs. It said that the claim for 
accommodation costs wasnt covered under the policy, as Mr and Mrs A owned the 
property they had planned to travel to and the loss of rental income theyd claimed for 
isnt covered by the policy. 
In dealing with the second claim, AXA realised that it had made an error in that the 
settlement of the first claim shouldnt have included accommodation costs of £1,305.62. 
It set off the successful part of the second claim against what was owed in relation to the 
over payment of the first claim and reduced the remaining amount owed by £100 by way 
of compensation. On 19 May 2020, AXA said that it required payment of the balance of 
£883.04. AXA suggested a repayment plan in order to make repayment easier. 
Mrs A, Mr A and Mr A werent happy about that and say that its not fair for AXA to ask 
for repayment of part of the amount it paid in relation to the first claim or to withhold the 
settlement of the second claim. They say that they submitted the claim in good faith and 
no longer have the money available to make the repayment. They want AXA to write off 
the overpayment and pay them the amount due to them in relation to the second claim. 
The background facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy doesnt cover every loss Mrs A, Mr A and Mr A might incur when a trip is 
cancelled. The policy doesnt cover loss of potential rental income. So, AXA made an 
error in settling the part of the first claim that related to loss of rental income.  
Mrs A, Mr A and Mr A say that its not fair for AXA to seek to recover the amount it 
paid in error weeks after it made the payment and after they had spent the money. 
They say that Mrs A has been in the furlough scheme since its inception and that    
Mr A has taken a cut in salary. We asked for more information and evidence about 
what happened to the overpayment and about Mr and Mrs As financial position, but 
it hasnt been provided. Based on the information I have, I dont think that there on 
any grounds on which I could fairly ask AXA to write off the overpayment it made in 
error.  
I dont think that AXA acted unfairly in applying the settlement of the second claim to 
what was owed in relation to the first claim. AXA reduced the amount owing by £100 
in relation to the inconvenience this matter had caused. I think thats fair. 
In summary, AXA made an error in settling the part of the first claim which related to 
loss of potential rental income. In the particular circumstances here, I dont think that 
its unfair or unreasonable for AXA to seek to recover the money and apply the 
settlement of the second claim to reduce whats outstanding in relation to the first 
claim. And AXA has suggested a repayment plan in order to assist repayment. Again, 
I think thats fair. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs A, Mr A and Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A, Mr A and 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman