DRN-4441526
The complaint
Miss M and Mrs M complain about how AWP P&C SA handled their claim against their  
travel insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Miss M and Mrs M have travel insurance as a benefit of a bank 
account. In July 2022, they were on a family trip abroad. They were travelling from the 
airport to their accommodation and parked their car. Unfortunately, the unattended, 
parked car was broken into, and their luggage and personal items were stolen. They 
reported the matter to the local police.
On their return to the UK, they made a claim against their travel insurance policy. AWP 
said that valuables and personal money were excluded from cover. Miss M and Mrs M 
accepted that. AWP didnt settle the claim in relation to the remaining items as it required 
receipts or other proof of ownership. Miss M and Mrs M provided some further 
information but didnt think that AWPs approach was fair. They pursued their complaint. 
Miss M and Mrs M want AWP to accept that its unfair to insist on receipts and to settle 
their claim and pay each of them £2,000. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, he didnt recommend 
that the complaint be upheld. Miss M disagreed and he reconsidered the complaint and 
recommended that it be upheld. The investigator said that whilst the policy terms provide 
that Miss M and Mrs M should provide receipts for claimed items, a fair outcome would 
be for AWP to accept the claim, subject to the policy terms. He also recommended that 
AWP pay interest on any settlement and £150 in relation to Miss M and Mrs Ms distress 
and inconvenience. 
Miss M and Mrs M agreed with the investigators recommendation, but AWP didnt 
respond. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant terms and conditions
The relevant part of the policy provides as follows:
Section 5  Baggage and baggage delay
What is covered
In the event of [] theft [] during your trip, we will pay up to £2,500 in total for your 
baggage (including valuables)
[]
Claims will be considered on a new for old basis provided the item is less than 2 years old 
at the date of the incident and you can provide the original purchase receipt. All other items 
will be subject to a suitable deduction for wear, tear and depreciation, including where proof 
of age cannot be provided. Alternatively, we may at our option replace, reinstate or repair 
the lost, stolen or damaged baggage. []
Special conditions relating to claims
In addition to the General claims information required shown under the Making a claim 
section on page 19, where appropriate, you must also:
[]
3. Provide receipts for items lost, stolen or damaged. []
Has AWP acted fairly and reasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I uphold Miss M and Mrs Ms 
complaint and Ill explain why:    
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An 
insurer will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. In general terms, insurers can decide what risks 
they wish to cover. The onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under 
one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in 
principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy the onus 
shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Miss M and Mrs M provided AWP with photographs of the damaged car. I understand 
that they provided AWP with a copy of the police report. AWP doesnt appear to 
dispute that Miss M and Mrs Ms luggage and personal effects were stolen in the way 
they describe.  
Miss M and Mrs M accept that the policy excludes cover for valuables in the 
circumstances that arose here. So, Im looking at the remaining items in the claim 
which includes toiletries, personal items and clothing. The stolen items are consistent 
with the type and duration of Miss M and Mrs Ms trip.
One of the special conditions of the policy, which Ive set out above, provides that, 
where appropriate, Miss M and Mrs M must provide receipts for stolen items. AWP 
asked Miss M and Mrs M for certain information, including proof of ownership. It was 
entitled to do that under the terms of the policy. AWP subsequently said that it would 
accept pictures as proof of ownership. 
Miss M and Mrs M have provided a schedule showing the items they claimed and 
what they have referred to as prices. Its not clear to me whether the prices are the 
amounts they paid for the items or new for old costs. They have also provided 
photographs which shown some of the items. The reason AWP isnt paying Miss M and Mrs Ms claim is because it says that they 
havent provided evidence of ownership. Ive thought about whether its fair and 
reasonable for AWP to insist on Miss M and Mrs M providing proof of ownership. I 
dont think it is.  
Miss M and Mrs M have explained that they havent retained receipts as Mrs M is 
recently widowed and cleared out a lot of paperwork and Mrs M has moved home 
recently and had a clear out before doing so. They also say that they both use cash 
for a lot of purchases, so cant provide bank statements. 
In the particular circumstances here, I think its unfair and unreasonable for AWP to 
expect Miss M and Mrs M to provide evidence for each item. Thats because most of 
the items are everyday items of relatively low value which Miss M and Mrs M may 
have had for some time. So, I think its unreasonable for AWP to expect Miss M and 
Mrs M to have evidence of all these items or to have receipts or bank statements that 
itemise them. 
In the circumstances, I think a fair and reasonable outcome is for AWP to deal with 
Miss M and Mrs Ms claim in accordance with the remaining terms of the policy as if 
they had provided proof of ownership of the stolen items. As they cant actually 
provide receipts and cant show when their purchases were made, I think its fair for 
AWP to make a suitable deduction for wear, tear and depreciation, as provided for in 
the policy. AWP should also pay interest on the amount of any settlement from the 
date of Miss M and Mrs Ms claim to the date of payment.  
I think that AWPs insistence on Miss M and Mrs M providing receipts or proof of 
ownership caused Miss M and Mrs M distress and inconvenient and delayed timely 
settlement of the claim. I agree with the investigators recommendation of 
compensation of £150 in relation to Miss M and Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience 
in this case. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, AWP should:
deal with Miss M and Mrs Ms claim as if they had provided proof of ownership of the 
stolen items, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy,
pay interest* on any settlement amount at the simple rate of 8% per year, from the 
date of the claim to the date of payment and
pay compensation of £150 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to take off tax from this interest. AWP must give 
Miss M and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should now take the steps Ive 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman