DRN-2037680
The complaint
Mrs J has complained about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) has dealt with a 
claim she made on her motor insurance policy after she was involved in an accident she 
doesnt think shes at fault for.
What happened
On 29 December 2019 Mrs J was involved in a motor accident with another car which, she 
said, collided with the side of her car while she was stationary at a roundabout. She told 
Tesco about the accident the following day. Tesco wrote to the third party insurer and said it 
thought its insured was responsible for the accident, however, the third party didnt admit 
liability. 
Mrs Js car was damaged, but she said she didnt want to go through one of Tescos 
approved repairers for the repairs and wanted to choose her own garage instead. Tesco told 
her if she didnt, it wouldnt be able to provide her with a courtesy car. The garage Mrs J 
chose provided Tesco with its estimate which Tesco accepted and said it would authorise 
the repairs after Mrs J paid her £200 policy excess. 
Mrs J was unhappy about having to pay the excess and about not being provided with a 
courtesy car. She said this would only leave her with the option of a hire car that shed have 
to pay for herself. She said this was disadvantaging her financially and that as she wasnt 
the party responsible for the accident, she shouldnt have to pay these costs. She was also 
unhappy about Tescos communication with her and about the time it was taking for it to 
obtain a liability admission from the third party. She also thought that the third party driver, 
who told her works in insurance, was using her insurance knowledge to escape liability. 
Tesco told Mrs J that unless she paid her excess to enable it to proceed with the repairs it 
would not have an outlay to recover and would, therefore, not be able to bring a claim 
against the third party in court. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with Tescos response and complained to us. She said she was unhappy 
with Tescos failure to investigate and pursue liability and with the third partys behaviour 
which, she thought, went against the professional standards of someone working in the 
insurance industry. Mrs J said she has paid for legal cover as part of her comprehensive 
policy and that she has motor legal protection which would enable her to recover her excess 
and the costs of a hire car from the other side. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt 
think that Tesco had caused any delays and agreed that it couldnt pursue the claim further 
without having an outlay to recover. He didnt comment on the third party drivers behaviour 
and said this would be a matter for her employers. 
Mrs J disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she did suffer a financial 
loss because her insurance premium went up when she renewed her policy. She also said 
Tesco has a repair estimate from her garage which shows what her repairs would cost. Our 
investigator responded to say that an open claim can affect her renewal premium. He 
repeated that until the repairs are carried out Tesco cannot proceed further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold it.
I appreciate that there have been some developments since the complaint came to us and 
specifically that the other side has now made a 50%-50% offer to settle the claim. I 
understand that this has not been accepted by Tesco. In this decision I am only looking at 
events that preceded Tescos final response letter which was issued on 5 March 2020; so I 
will not be looking at anything that happened since, including the 50%-50% offer. 
Mrs J has a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with Tesco. This policy includes 
cover for repairs following accidental damage but doesnt cover any excess that may be 
payable under the policy. What this means is that if an insured wants to make a claim on 
their comprehensive motor insurance policy for their own vehicle damage, they must pay an 
excess first. This is very common in motor insurance policies so I think Tesco can rely on 
this term. 
The policy also says that Mrs J will be provided with a courtesy car while her car is being 
repaired by one of Tescos approved repairers. But the policy is equally clear that if Mrs J 
chooses not to use one of Tescos approved repairers then shes not entitled to a courtesy 
car. As Mrs J chose her own garage for her repairs, and not one of Tescos approved 
repairers, I think Tesco was acting in line with its policy when it didnt offer her a courtesy 
car. Also, as a courtesy car would only be provided while the car was being repaired and as 
Mrs Js car hasnt been in for repairs, she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car in any event. 
Mrs J also has motor legal protection as an optional extra. From what I have seen, this policy 
is underwritten by another insurer- not Tesco. Motor legal policies cover legal fees for the 
pursuit of uninsured losses, which might include a motor insurance policy excess. As far as I 
am aware, Mrs Js only uninsured loss in relation to this accident is her excess. And as she 
hasnt paid that yet, there would be nothing for her to recover under this policy. This is 
something that Tesco has also pointed out- in my opinion rightly so. But as I said, in any 
event, this policy is underwritten by a separate insurer so Mrs J can raise this with them if 
she wishes. 
Mrs J said she is unhappy that Tesco failed to investigate and pursue liability for the accident 
and said she was the one who kept chasing it for updates. 
Mrs J reported the accident to Tesco on 30 December 2019 which was the day after it 
happened. Tesco wrote to the third party insurer on the same day and a few days later it 
sent over Mrs Js statement and diagram. Mrs J chased Tesco on 16 and 24 January 2020 
but it told her the third party insurer was still disputing liability and that it had had three 
months to investigate liability. 
On 24 January 2020 Mrs J said she wanted her repairs not to be carried out until liability was 
determined. She called Tesco on 31 January and on 10 February but there was still no 
update form the other side. Tesco told Mrs J that as it had no outlay (because her repairs 
hadnt been carried out) it couldnt legally do anything to force the other side to admit liability 
at that stage and couldnt issue court proceedings. Tesco also wrote to and called the third 
party insurer on 31 January chasing its liability response and it called it again on 10 February for the same reason. On that occasion the third party insurer said it was still waiting for its 
insureds statement. 
Mrs J called Tesco again in March 2020 and said she wanted to make a claim through her 
legal expenses cover. Tesco told her this wouldnt be possible as she had no uninsured 
losses to recover at that stage. It also logged a complaint for her and chased the other side 
who was still waiting to hear from its insured.
Bearing the above in mind, I can see that Mrs J was the one who was mainly chasing for 
updates, but I can also see that Tesco was chasing the other side for its liability stance 
which wasnt forthcoming. Tesco told Mrs J that the other side had about three months to 
respond, which Mrs J thought was too long. From what I understand this is based on 
guidance provided within the Civil Procedure Rules, which are the rules that are followed 
when taking a civil case  including an insurance dispute - to court, so I dont think Tesco 
was wrong to say this. But even if this wasnt correct, as Tesco had no outlay to pursue, I 
think it was right to say that it couldnt push things further with the third party insurer. I think, 
in the circumstances, all Tesco could do was to chase the other side and try to push it to 
admit liability but without an outlay it had nothing to issue court proceedings for. 
Mrs J said she has incurred a financial loss already because her insurance premium went up 
at renewal. But Tesco has already told her that if she is found not to be at fault for the 
accident it will re-rate her policy and refund her any premium increase and also reinstate her 
no claims bonus. I think this is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs J feels that she is not responsible for the accident and therefore shouldnt 
have to pay anything- including her excess. But an excess is payable under most motor 
insurance policies I am aware of, as I said above. There may be occasions where the insurer 
may be able to waive this if the other side admits liability early on but if it doesnt, the insurer 
would be entitled to charge the excess before proceeding with any repairs- thats standard 
industry practice. And if it was later proven that the insured wasnt at fault, they would be 
able to recover their excess from the other side. 
Mrs J said she is unhappy with the third party drivers behaviour but as our investigator said 
this isnt something we can look at. We are only able to look at Mrs Js individual complaint 
against her motor insurer- Tesco. 
I appreciate Mrs J may be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given I 
dont think Tesco has been unfair or unreasonable in the way it handled her claim. I 
appreciate she finds herself in a difficult position but as I explained above, I dont think there 
is much more Tesco can do unless the other side admits liability or unless Mrs J is prepared 
to pay her excess so that her repairs can be carried out and so that Tesco has an outlay it 
can try to recover. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman