DRN-3947773
The complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy with Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds decision to decline 
her claim made on a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Essentially, Red Sands relied on the policys exclusion clause for pre-existing medical 
conditions in declining Mrs Ms claim. It felt the condition her dog was diagnosed with and 
treated for in 2017 was the same as the condition diagnosed and treated in 2022. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service and our investigator, having assessed the 
available information, recommended that it should be upheld. Unhappy with the 
investigators findings, Red Sands asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I considered the complaint and asked Red Sands to pay the claim in line with the policy 
terms on the grounds I felt it had been declined unfairly. It didnt accept my findings and 
asked me to issue a formal decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mrs Ms dog was diagnosed with a mass cell tumour (MCT) in 2017, 
just as they were at the time of the current claim in 2022. But its not sufficient for Red Sands 
to show that the medical conditions were similar or even the same in order to exclude the 
more recent claim.
As the policy terms say, they exclude Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to 
an injury or illness that relates to or results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs 
your pet had before the commencement date [my emphasis].
I dont believe the available evidence shows the more recent MCT related to or resulted from 
the initial MCT. Or that the more recent MCT was pre-existing as per the policy definition. 
Thats especially the case given the opinion provided by the treating vet, which I note isnt 
contradicted by an equivalent expert opinion. 
Among other things, the vet reasoned on balance that the occurrences were unrelated 
based on several factors including that:
 
The histopathologist confirmed in 2017 that the mass was completely excised and 
expected to be curative. 
Further testing carried out in 2017 showed that particular MCT was likely to behave 
in a low grade manner. 
The second MCT developed in a distant location and not for another five and a half 
years after treatment of the first.
 
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that it was fair for Red Sands to rely on the policy 
exclusion to decline the claim. I think it should put things right for Mrs M as a result.
Putting things right
Red Sands should:
Pay Mrs Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Interest should be added to any payment at the annual rate of 8%, calculated 
from the date Mrs M paid the vet for the relevant treatment up until the date of 
settlement; and
Refrain from adding any policy exclusions for claims for MCTs to the policy in 
such a way as to prevent this claim from being paid. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Red Sands to take off tax from this interest. Red Sands 
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited to put things right for Mrs M as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman