DRN-1656630
 
The complaint
Mr Ps representative, his mother (Mrs W), complains on his behalf about the encashment 
value of his child trust fund (CTF) administered by Forester Life Limited trading as Foresters 
Financial (Foresters). 
She says that despite being told in November 2018, that the investment value wouldnt 
change much, the value dropped by 20% upon encashment in June 2019. 
 
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs W contacted Foresters to enquire about the value of Mr Ps CTF and 
options for encashment. She wanted to encash the CTF a few months before Mr P turned 18 
(in July 2019) and surprise him for his birthday.
She was told the value of the CTF was £3,336, and that it wouldnt change much by the time 
she encashed it. But in March 2019, when Mrs W called Foresters about encashing the CTF, 
she was informed that the value was £2,662.  
Foresters partially upheld the complaint. It accepts that in November 2018 Mrs W was 
incorrectly told that the value of Mr Ps CTF wouldnt change by much by the time she 
encashed it a few months later. It offered £100 compensation for trouble and upset caused, 
which Mrs W promptly rejected. 
In June 2019, she encashed the CTF for £2,735, and referred the complaint to our service in 
July. Shed like Foresters to pay the difference between the value of the CTF quoted in 
November 2018 and the encashment value in June 2019, with compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes satisfied  having listened to the November 2018 call  that Mrs W was told a 
number of times that the value wouldnt change by much, but that it could change. So 
by virtue of this (and a previous complaint made in 2012) Mrs W was aware the value 
wasnt guaranteed. 
A breakdown of the surrender value suggests that Mr P received the amount that he 
was entitled to. 
Once the CTF was paid up, the minimum guaranteed sum was £2,358, whereas the 
bonuses werent guaranteed.    
The £100 compensation offered by Forester was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
 Mrs W rejected the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs W says, I dont think 
Foresters refusal to pay the difference in value between November 2018 and the surrender 
value in June 2019 is unreasonable. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling Mr P has about this matter. 
Mrs W has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope she and Mr P wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading  its not what Im required to do  in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs W and Foresters, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened.
Because Foresters upheld the complaint, the key issue for me to consider is whether or not 
the compensation is fair and reasonable. Im aware that in 2012 Mrs W complained about 
why the investment wasnt doing well, therefore shes broadly aware of how this investment 
works and this isnt something I need to go over again.   
I think Foresters quite rightly accepts that the information offered by the operative was 
incorrect, and its not seeking to justify it. In the circumstances I dont need to consider 
whether (or not) the percentage loss fell within the broad meaning of the term by much. 
Its important to note that the £100 compensation is only for distress and inconvenience 
caused by the incorrect information. It isnt compensation for the loss of value of the CTF. I 
should also make clear that Mrs W  as the representative of Mr P  isnt technically entitled 
to any compensation, despite the time and effort she put into this complaint, but its a matter 
for Foresters. Im conscious that despite being told the value might not change by much, I note that no 
guarantees were ever given about the surrender value, and it was still made clear that things 
could change. 
So whilst it was a mistake for the telephone operative to say that the value might not change 
much  because theres just no way they couldve known this  the surrender value was 
never guaranteed and dependent on the market value and the bonuses (including the 
terminal bonus) that applied at the point of surrender. So Mr P was never entitled to the 
November 2018 value, unless Mrs W decided to surrender that month.   
In other words, despite the misleading information, there was no guarantee that the 
November 2018 value would remain the same upon encashment a few months later. 
Therefore Foresters hasnt done anything wrong by refusing the pay the difference between 
the November 2018 value and the surrender value in June 2019. 
I also think its more likely than not that Mrs W wouldve continued with the investment as 
planned  until a few months before Mr Ps 18th birthday  rather than encashing the 
investment in November 2018. 
Im conscious that shed called up to ask about the value and make enquiries about 
encashment a few months before Mr Ps 18th birthday, and not whether she would encash it 
there and then depending on its value.
I appreciate Mr P will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require Foresters to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by Forester Life Limited is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman