DRN-2931457
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society, on two occasions, debited his account with 
the full amount he requested from a cash point machine, but the machine failed to dispense 
it.
What happened
On two occasions in 2020, Mr K explained that he attempted to withdraw cash from 
Nationwide Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). On both occasions they failed to dispense 
the correct amount of cash, but his account was debited with the full amount hed tried to 
withdraw from the machines.
Mr K asked for refunds and on both occasions Nationwide investigated the claims. 
Nationwide determined that the ATMs were working properly and that they didnt have any 
excess cash in them that could be attributed to Mr Ks claim. They thought that the ATMs 
had dispensed the correct amount of cash and declined to make any refunds to Mr K.
Nationwide did accept that they should have dealt with the claims differently because they 
recognised that Mr Ks needs were different. They agreed to pay Mr K £20, which he 
accepted.
Mr K then brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. It was looked at by 
one of our investigators who thought the evidence showed that it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to decline Mr K a refund. During the investigation it was explained that Mr K had 
made numerous claims about cash withdrawals from Nationwide machines. The records 
show that in most cases, notes are available of the investigations carried out by Nationwide 
and several of them resulted in refunds being paid to Mr K.
Mr K disagreed with the outcome and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. Its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
On both occasions that Mr K disputed the amounts he was given from the ATMs, Nationwide 
investigated his claims. The records theyve supplied show that on both occasions, the 
ATMs lists the amounts Mr K entered into the machines. Records show that the ATMs didnt 
have an excess in the machines that Nationwide could attribute to Mr Ks claims, nor did 
they receive any other claims about those machines from other customers that could 
indicate the machines were faulty. Nationwide have shown that the machines were used for 
transactions after Mr Ks and they didnt receive any claims about those withdrawals. There 
were no reports of any foreign devices being attached to the machines  and I would have 
expected multiple complaints from other customers if that was the case, but that didnt 
happen here.
Nationwide have explained that the full audit for the ATMs is no longer available, so I have to 
base my decision on the best available evidence, and where thats missing  on the balance 
of probabilities. So, Ive examined the audit evidence Nationwide have supplied, Mr Ks 
testimony and Ive also taken Nationwides previous approach to these claims into 
consideration.
Mr K told Nationwide that hed had several problems with Nationwide ATMs, including the 
two particular instances related to this complaint. Mr K thought that Nationwide should pay 
him for each of the times he reported losses to them. Nationwides approach was to 
investigate each claim and where the evidence showed there was excess cash in the 
machines, to make a refund to Mr K. This is what Nationwide did, and on multiple occasions, 
they made refunds to Mr K. Where the records showed the machines had no excess cash, 
they denied the claims. I think this was a fair and reasonable way for Nationwide to deal with 
Mr Ks claims.
There are a few cases where they dont have any records, so I cant draw any conclusions 
from those instances. But, what the previous cases indicate is that when Mr K made a claim, 
Nationwide looked into it and dealt with each case based on what records they obtained 
from the ATMs. So, I think its reasonable to conclude Nationwide did that on both of these 
occasions  and the records theyve produced indicate that the money was successfully 
dispensed, which is why no refund was given to Mr K.  
Nationwide awarded Mr K £20 for how theyd dealt with his situation and Nationwides final 
response letter indicates that Mr K accepted this award. Mr K hasnt raised this as a specific 
matter, so I havent considered this further.
So, taking everything into account, I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to have 
investigated Mr Ks previous claims and either refunded him or declined them based on the 
records from the ATMs. I also think its more likely than not that the ATMs dispensed the 
correct amount of money requested by Mr K on both occasions that have been specified in 
this complaint. It then follows that I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman