DRN-1740797
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, trading as Santander Consumer Finance (Santander).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Santander, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr N. The car here 
was around two and a half years old and had completed about 26,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
Our service cant consider all the complaints it receives. A consumer has six months from 
the date he or she receives the businesses final response on a complaint in which to refer it 
to this service. In this case Mr N received a final response in January 2019 but didnt refer 
his complaint to us until August 2019. So, he made his complaint out of time and were not 
allowed to consider the issues Santander looked at when they provided their final response. 
That response considered issues Mr N had raised with them in September 2018.
But we can consider any issues that have happened since.
So, Ive reviewed the breakdowns Mr N has experienced since that time and dont think the 
car has been suitably durable. For that reason, I think it hasnt been of satisfactory quality.
Mr N has experienced a raft of problems with the car and I dont think a reasonable person 
would expect so many issues with a vehicle that was only two and a half years old when 
supplied and had completed just 26,000 miles. The car had already had a new engine fitted 
before Santander issued its final response. Since then the following problems have been 
identified, amongst others that I think could reasonably be considered fair wear and tear i.e. 
brakes and worn bushes:
the car was in the garage for about four months and when Mr N got it back in March 
2019 the gearbox noise he had complained of was still there;
the roof trim he had been complaining about since at least May 2018 was still not 
fixed until October 2019;
the front differential was replaced;
the ediff motor and housing differential lock motor were replaced as was the axle 
control unit;
the car broke down again in May 2020. The start stop wouldnt work and a diagnostic 
identified a fault with the alarm system that Mr N has explained was fitted at 
inception;
I cant see that Santander ever considered whether the car was suitably durable. They 
rejected Mr Ns complaint in January 2019 as they said he should have had the car fixed at 
the dealership he sourced it from. But Im not persuaded he needed to do that because:
the dealership he used was a manufacturers franchise so I think its reasonable to 
suggest Mr N would consider they were experts in the area. 
the manufacturers franchise was significantly closer to where Mr N lived so it would 
make sense to use them rather than drive to the supplying dealership in a car that 
wasnt working properly;
the manufacturers franchise would be able to complete work on the warranty he had. 
So, I think Santander should have considered the repair record Mr N provided them with. I 
dont accept that the issues Mr N had were the result of the repairers failure to do the job 
correctly. Whilst some issues did reoccur i.e. the sunroof trim, others were new i.e. the 
differential failures. Overall, the picture is of a car that has failed consistently and has shown 
itself to be unreliable and not as durable as a reasonable person would expect.
Putting things right
Santander should allow Mr N to reject the car and they should collect it from him.
The agreement will need to be ended and Mr N will have no further liability for payment 
under it.
They should refund Mr Ns deposit as hell need that to fund an alternative vehicle. 
Santander should add interest to that refund as Mr N has been deprived of that money whilst 
funding a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
I think its clear that despite the issues Mr N has had with the vehicle he has been able to 
drive a reasonable mileage in the car when its been in his possession. Hes been provided with courtesy cars when it hasnt been and Im therefore not asking Santander to refund any 
finance instalments due to lack of use. 
I do think Mr N has been disadvantaged here. Hes had to return the car to the garage on 
several occasions since Santander issued their final response and hes had to pursue a 
complaint when I think its reasonable to suggest it should have been resolved earlier. In the 
circumstances I think Santander should compensate him for the distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced, and I think £350 is sufficient.
They should also remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file.
Ive noted that Mr N thinks the warranty he was provided with was mis-sold to him. Im not 
considering that complaint here as its not something Santander have looked into. I cant see 
the warranty listed on the finance agreement so it may be something that was paid for 
separately. If thats the case it would be for the dealership to consider the matter and not 
Santander.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc to:
allow Mr N to reject the car and end the finance agreement at no further cost;
collect the car at no cost to Mr N;
refund Mr Ns deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr N £350 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced;
remove any reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman