DRN-2203219
The complaint
Mr G complains that he was mis-sold a Level Term Assurance (LTA) policy with Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC) by National Westminster Bank (Nat West).
Mr G says:
He had no choice but to accept the recommendation if he wanted to borrow money to 
pay for his studies and cover living expenses.  
The cover was £20,000 more than what he needed. 
What happened
In my provisional decision of late September 2020, which forms part of this, my final 
decision, I said I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I said:
Im unable to say that the recommendation for an LTA in respect of a loan, and present and 
anticipated future financial planning was unsuitable in this instance.
It seems that life cover was (more likely than not) a condition of the borrowing, therefore Mr 
G had to have suitable life cover in place before he could borrow money from Nat West. So, 
he had no choice, about taking out life cover.  
I dont think theres any dispute that Nat West  in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate 
commercial judgement  was entitled to set the conditions of its lending, and if Mr G was 
unhappy with this, he was free to go to another lender. Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr 
G was forced to buy life cover with Nat West. 
It seems there was some issue  probably to do with the underwriting (and the £6.50 
premium)  which meant that life cover started in September 1996, a month or so after the 
loan was granted in August 1996. The repayment was also deferred for a year to start from 
November 1997 and due to end in November 2002. In the circumstances, Im unable to say 
that a DTA policy (for a term of five years) from the outset wouldve been suitable. 
I note Nat West says: The loan was granted with a condition attached to it however the 
Bank would not always have delayed providing the loan until they had evidence the required 
life policy was in place, as happened here.
A recently provided screenshot of a lending facility report dated October 2002, shows that 
the loan was still active on that date (six years after the loan was taken) with an end date of 
31 January 2004. It seems that the loan term was extended by another year at the least. So, 
its reasonable to assume that either the facility was extended (as suggested by the 
business) or a possible further deferment/break in the repayment of the loan, due to 
cashflow, or both. Im unable to say that this wasnt an issue that was discussed or 
envisaged by the adviser in 1996. 
Im mindful that Mr G originally applied for a £10,000 loan but was only awarded £7,500, 
subject to having suitable life cover in place, so he was £2,500 short of what he asked for to 
pay for his course fees and living expenses. Just because the business was unwilling to lend 
Mr G the full amount that he asked for doesnt mean that he didnt still need it or wasnt 
going to try and get it elsewhere, or that it wasnt going to cause him cashflow problems. 
This may explain why the repayments were initially deferred by a year. 
All of this would suggest that the recommendation for an LTA policy  with a higher sum 
assured for a term of 10 years  taking into account his present and anticipated future 
financial needs  wasnt unsuitable and that it did give Mr G some flexibility, with regards to 
his financial circumstances. 
In other words, its not as simple as saying the advice was wrong because it was made in 
respect of anticipated future loans for which he may or may not have needed life cover. This 
clearly wasnt the case here. And just because he didnt take out additional loans and 
deferred/extended his existing policy doesnt mean the recommendation is unsuitable.    
I note that Nat West now accepts that a DTA policy, that matched the term and amount of 
the borrowing wouldve been most suitable. I agree that it mightve been, providing the policy 
was for a fixed term, and starting at the same time as the plan, without any extension or 
deferment to the loan amount  clearly this wasnt the case here. On balance, I think the 
adviser had a better handle of Mr Gs circumstances at the time (in 1996) than is possible to 
decipher retrospectively and without the power of hindsight, 25 years later.    
 
In any case, Im not looking at what wouldve been the most suitable, Im looking whether (or 
not) the recommendation was suitable, and based on Mr Gs specific circumstances, on 
balance Im satisfied that it was. 
I note theres nothing to suggest that Mr G couldnt have in future got a loan that didnt 
require life cover as a condition (if thats indeed what he was going to do), in which case he 
wouldnt have needed the additional life cover. But this wasnt the case here. 
I note Mr G said that he took out a further loan of £10,000 (over a term of five years) in 
May/June 2004, along with life cover. Although I have no further details about this, life cover 
evidently wasnt something that he was against in principle.  
I note this new loan broadly coincides with Mr G cancelling his existing LTA policy, roughly a 
year later in June 2005, having paid off his loan by then.
It seems that the cost of an LTA policy was the same as a DTA policy at the time. I note Nat 
West confirmed that term assurance policies carried a minimum premium of £6.50 per 
month, irrespective of whether a shorter term or lower sum assured was selected or cost 
less. So, Mr G wouldnt have lost out financially by taking out the LTA policy (instead of a 
DTA) which also included CIC which meant that if Mr G was diagnosed with a specified 
critical illness within the term of the policy his loan would be paid off. 
In other words, he had the benefit of much higher cover (with CIC) for a longer term, for the 
same price of a DTA policy, with added flexibility to defer/extend or increase his loan which 
he seems to have utilised on at least two occasions. It doesnt mean that the 
recommendation was unsuitable.  
In this instance, I dont agree that it was simply a case of Mr G paying for £20,000 worth of 
cover that he didnt need. The level of cover was premium led and this is what Mr G got for a 
minimum premium of £6.50 a month.
Nat West responded and said it had no further points to add.Mr G also responded and said:
I am writing to inform you that I accept your final decision and therefore happy for you to 
now close the matter.
I would like to thank you for investigating this matter to a degree far in excess of my 
expectations and truly appreciate all the efforts made by your service..
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the responses from the parties  including Mr Gs acceptance 
of my provisional decision  my conclusion regarding the non-uphold remains as set out 
previously, and for the same reasons. 
In other words, Im unable to say that the recommendation for an LTA in respect of a loan, 
and present and anticipated future financial planning was unsuitable in this instance.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman