DRN-2047388
The complaint
Mr R complains that a car he took from Santander Consumer (UK) Plc under a conditional 
sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality. He thinks he should have been able to reject it.
What happened
In early October 2009 Mr R took a car under a conditional sale agreement from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc. Within less than three weeks Mr R says he noticed an oil leak; he says 
too that the cars diesel filter was blocked, there were problems with the braking system and 
that incorrect parts had been used in the engine. 
Santander arranged an inspection of the car. That indicated that there was an oil leak and 
that the car was sluggish  which might have been linked to a problem with the diesel filter. 
There were no issues with the braking system and no evidence of incorrect engine parts 
having been used. The engineer expressed the view that the faults that had been identified 
had been present when Mr R acquired the car and were therefore the responsibility of the 
seller. 
The dealership arranged for repairs to be carried out. This took around three months in total, 
as parts needed to be ordered. When the repairs were completed, the dealership agreed to 
accept the return of the car, as long as Mr R took a replacement  which he did. 
Mr R nevertheless remained unhappy. He had, he said, made payments for the car but had 
only been able to use it for a few days. He had said he wanted to reject it, but hadnt been 
allowed to. 
Santander said it thought it would have been disproportionate to allow Mr R to reject the car. 
The repairs that were needed were relatively minor and had been completed. 
Mr R referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
thought that Santander should have given Mr R the option of rejecting the car from the 
outset. Mr R should therefore be put in the position he would have been in if his rejection 
had been accepted. That would require Santander to refund payments made under the 
conditional sale agreement and pay him some additional compensation. 
Santander repeated that it thought it was fair that the car had been repaired and that 
rejection was disproportionate. It asked that an ombudsman review the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has said that hes had issues with the second car he took from the dealership. I havent 
however considered that, since its the subject of a new complaint, and I make no comment 
on it. Ive only considered how Santander dealt with the complaint about the first car. 
The engineers report confirmed that there were problems with the car, and that those 
problems had been present on delivery. Thats consistent with Mr Rs account of events, 
since he says he had issues with the car almost as soon as he took delivery of it. Whilst the 
engineer didnt experience all the faults that Mr R says he noticed, I believe the report shows 
that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at delivery. 
Generally, where goods arent of satisfactory within 30 days of delivery, a consumer is 
entitled to reject them and receive a refund. In this case, Mr R made it clear that he wanted 
to return the car. The dealership however took the car in for repairs in early December 2019; 
those repairs were completed in early February 2020, some five months after Mr R initially 
took delivery of the car and more than four months after he first reported the problems. Mr R 
says that, even then, faults persisted. 
Because Mr R changed the car, its not possible now to know whether there were still faults 
after the repair, but I dont believe it makes any difference overall. 
Even though Santander has described the repairs as relatively minor, they took two months 
to complete, and meant that Mr R was without his car for most of the first four months since 
he acquired it. To him, therefore, this was not a minor issue. 
For these reasons, I agree that Mr R should have been allowed to reject the car from the 
outset. I dont believe he genuinely agreed to allow the dealership to carry out repairs or that 
repairs would resolve his complaint. Rather, he felt compelled to let the dealership attempt 
repairs when his request to reject the car wasnt accepted. 
Putting things right
Generally, a consumer who is entitled to reject goods because they arent satisfactory 
should receive a refund of any sums paid. That may be different if theyve had use of those 
goods  under a conditional sale agreement, for example. Ive considered therefore whether 
it would be fair to require a full refund in this case, but concluded that it would; Mr R noticed 
problems with the car almost immediately, and any use he had of the car was minimal. I 
dont intend to make any deduction from his compensation for that.  
The investigator recommended that Mr R receive interest at 8% a year on refunds of monthly 
payments and the deposit he paid for the car. Interest on our awards is intended  to some 
extent at least  to reflect the cost to the complainant of being deprived of funds. The cost to 
Mr R in this case was the contractual interest rate, and so my award includes interest at that 
rate.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Rs complaint, Santander Consumer (UK) Plc should, 
within 28 days of Mr Rs acceptance of this decision:
refund the deposit Mr R paid, together with interest at the contractual rate from the date 
of payment until the date of the refund;
refund any monthly payments made under the conditional sale agreement, together with 
interest at the contractual rate from the date of each payment until the date of the 
refund;
pay Mr R £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which hes been put; and remove any reference to the agreement from Mr Rs credit records. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman