DRN-3727578
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy with the way in which AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim
they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N booked a package holiday abroad in March 2020 for them and their family,
departing the UK on 13 March 2020 for nine nights. They paid around £1,800 for the trip.
Before booking their trip, Mrs N called AXA, asking some questions.
Whilst away  on 15 March 2020  the country Mr and Mrs N were visiting went into
lockdown due to emergence of Covid-19  meaning that facilities were closed. And they
were only allowed to leave their room for basic refreshments.
The provider of the holiday arranged for Mr and Mrs N, and their family, to be repatriated
back to the UK a few days later  and ended up refunding them £71.40.
Mr and Mrs N had the benefit of a travel insurance policy as part of their bank account and
they made a claim on the policy for their out of pocket losses.
AXA assessed the claim under the travel disruption section of the policy. It declined the
claim as that section of the policy excluded claims for package holidays. However, AXA did
end up offering Mr and Mrs N £75 to acknowledge that the information provided to Mrs N,
over the phone before she booked the holiday, couldve been clearer. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs 
N complained to our service.
After they raised a complaint, AXA offered to pay them a further £600 which it said it ought to
have offered them under the hospitalisation section of the policy. Although, they - nor their
children - were hospitalised they offered to pay each of them £50 per day for the three nights
they were effectively confined to their hotel room. They also offered a further £100 in
compensation as AXA said it shouldve considered the claim under this section earlier than it
did. Mr and Mrs N didnt accept this offer in settlement of their complaint.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. He said that AXA had fairly and
reasonably declined the claim under the travel disruption section of the policy. He also felt
that the offer of paying £600 under the hospitalisation section of the policy was fair and
reasonable  and Mr and Mrs N had received a further sum of £175 in compensation from
AXA, which he also thought was fair.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept our investigators view. So, their complaint was passed to
me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my provisional decision on 15 
September 2022, explaining why I was intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. An 
extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
..
Mr and Mrs Ns claim
AXA has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline an insurance claim.
In this particular case, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for AXA to treat the claim as
covered under the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy and Im intending to
uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
I think their holiday was effectively curtailed from 15 March 2020 when the country they were
visiting went into national lockdown. They were mainly confined to their room and was only
allowed to leave to get basic refreshments. They werent able to use any of the facilities 
such as the pool which was closed.
The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy (starting on page 49 of the policy
document) says:
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable underTravel
disruption cover) for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs
(including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid charges which You have paid or 
are
contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if:
a. cancellation of the Trip is necessary and unavoidable or
b. the Trip is Curtailed before completion
c. You have to make an Early Return
as a result of any of the following events occurring:
. Compulsory quarantine
. A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation 
from,
the country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a
directive came into force after You have left the United Kingdom
Compulsory quarantine isnt defined under the policy. But given the circumstances Mr and
Mrs N, and their children, found themselves in I think its fair and reasonable to conclude that
it amounted to compulsory quarantine.
Further, on 14 March 2020  so after Mr and Mrs N departed the UK - the Foreign
Commonwealth Office advised against all but essential travel to the country they were
visiting.
I think its fair to conclude that this amounts to a government directive prohibiting travel to the
country theyd visited.
AXA has recently confirmed to our service that it accepts Mr and Mrs Ns trip was effectively
curtailed. It said that it didnt accept a claim under the cancellation and curtailment section of
the policy because it didnt consider the losses claimed to be irrecoverable because the
holiday was covered under the package holiday regulations.
Even though Mr and Mrs N booked a package holiday, theyd contacted the holiday provider
and received a small refund of £71.40. They werent advised of their rights to complain to a
third-party organisation set up to help obtain refunds for package holidays. Further, from
what Ive seen, it doesnt look like AXA advised Mr and Mrs N of this potential course of
action when responding to their complaint.
The deadline in which Mr and Mrs N had to complaint to the third-party organisation has nowpassed. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that losses being
claimed are recoverable. And I think the claim should be re-considered under the
cancellation and curtailment section of the policy.
The telephone call in March 2020
Mr and Mrs N are also unhappy with the information provided to Mrs N over the phone
before booking the holiday. AXA accepts that it shouldve been made clearer that the policy
didnt cover package holidays.
But although the travel disruption section of the policy excludes claims for package holidays,
the cancellation and curtailment section of the policy doesnt contain a similar exclusion.
This confusion has caused Mr and Mrs Ns claim not being considered fairly. AXA has
offered a total sum of £175 in compensation for not giving clearer information over the phone
and for not considering the claim under the hospitalisation section of the policy. I think that
amount fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience AXA has caused Mr and Mrs N in the
way in which it has handled their claim  and assessed the claim against the policy terms.
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs N, and their children, had use of the flights theyd booked and paid for. They also
had use of the first two days of their holiday.
I dont have a breakdown of the cost of the flights and the cost of the hotel from the holiday
provider. It didnt set this out in communications with Mr and Mrs N. If AXA has any
information about the way in which the holiday provider apportioned costs between flights
and accommodation, its free to provide this to me in response to my provisional decision.
But on the assumption that AXA is unable to provide information about that, I intend to find
that it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to divide the total price paid for the holiday by
the number of days of the holiday, which equates to approximately £180 per day.
AXA should then pay to Mr and Mrs N a sum equivalent to eight days  as Im satisfied that
the trip was effectively curtailed from 15 March 2020.
From that sum, it can deduct:
- £71.40, which is the amount paid by the travel provider to Mr and Mrs N;
- £600 for the hospital benefit  if its already paid this amount to Mr and Mrs N;
- any excess due under the policy
The total amount I refer to as the payment due to Mr and Mrs N.
I also direct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs N:
- simple interest at the rate of 8% per year, on the payment due to Mr and Mrs N from
the date on which the claim was declined to the date on which payment is made to
them.
- £175 compensation for distress and inconvenience (if this hasnt been paid already
by AXA).
..Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. AXA didnt 
reply. Mr and Mrs N were happy with my provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. So, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint for the reasons 
set out in my provisional decision (above). 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for AXA to divide the total price paid for the holiday by
the number of days of the holiday, which equates to approximately £180 per day.
AXA should then pay to Mr and Mrs N a sum equivalent to eight days  as Im satisfied that
the trip was effectively curtailed from 15 March 2020. From that sum, it can deduct:
- £71.40, which is the amount paid by the travel provider to Mr and Mrs N;
- £600 for the hospital benefit  if its already paid this amount to Mr and Mrs N;
- any excess due under the policy
The total amount I refer to as the payment due to Mr and Mrs N.
I also direct AXA to pay Mr and Mrs N:
- simple interest at the rate of 8% per year, on the payment due to Mr and Mrs N 
from the date on which the claim was declined to the date on which payment is 
made to them.
- £175 compensation for distress and inconvenience (if this hasnt been paid 
already by AXA).
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to put things right in
the way Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman