DRN-4322775
The complaint
A has complained about the amount paid by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited in 
settlement of its claim under a motor insurance policy. A is represented by a director of the 
company, wholl Ill refer to as Mr S. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive checked the relevant trade guides and Im satisfied the market value of As vehicle 
used by Admiral to settle the claim was correct. 
Im satisfied that when Mr S took out the policy, which was  in effect  on behalf of A, he 
failed to make a fair presentation of the risk in accordance with his obligations under The 
Insurance Act 2015. This is because he said he was the registered keeper of the vehicle 
to be insured when the registered keeper was actually the lease company. And Im 
satisfied this is what is termed a qualifying breach and that this gave Admiral the right to 
settle As claim proportionately and only pay 90.49% of the amount due under the policy.
Im satisfied that Admiral actually paid the full amount due under the policy for As vehicle 
to the lease company in error. And this meant A was left with a much smaller outstanding 
balance to pay on the lease than would have been the case if Admiral had paid the right 
amount.
I can also see Admiral paid a further £2,577 to Mr S towards his deposit when it had 
already paid the full amount due under the policy. 
Im not persuaded there was a GAP policy in place that would have covered any shortfall 
on the lease if Admiral had paid a lower amount to the lease company. 
In view of all of this, I do not consider A has lost out financially as a result of the way 
Admiral settled its claim. 
Im satisfied what Admiral has paid in compensation for distress and inconvenience as a 
result of their poor handling of the claim is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold As complaint about 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman