DRN-3662130
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest), mis-sold her fee-
paying Advantage Gold and Select Platinum packaged bank accounts.
The Advantage Gold account was sold in 1999. Due to the withdrawal of the Advantage 
Gold account, NatWest changed the account to a Select Platinum account in July 2015.
Mrs G has complained that the account was mis-sold because she did not request the 
Advantage Gold account. Mrs G says was unaware that her account had been changed to 
the Select Platinum account in 2015 and did not agree to this change either.
What happened
NatWest said that our service is unable to consider the complaint about the sale of the 
feepaying Advantage Gold account. One of adjudicators agreed that Mrs G had complained 
to late, Mrs G did not disagree with this.
One of our adjudicators went on to consider whether NatWest did anything wrong when it 
transferred Mrs Gs Advantage Gold account to a Select Platinum account. The adjudicator 
concluded that NatWest had not acted unfairly or incorrectly in changing Mrs Gs account. 
Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
This decision will only address whether NatWest did anything wrong in relation to the 
migration of the account in 2015. I note that Mrs G has mentioned interest that she was 
charged whilst holding the account if she remains unhappy with this aspect of her complaint 
this would need to be dealt with separately.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Mrs Gs complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything provided, I am unable to uphold the complaint 
about Mrs Gs account being changed to a Select Platinum account. Id like to explain the 
reasons for my decision.
I should start by saying that NatWest didnt sell Mrs G a further packaged account in July 
2015. It chose to withdraw the Advantage Gold account at this stage. And it was entitled to 
do this. So I cant say that NatWest did anything wrong because it decided to withdraw the 
Advantage Gold account. 
When NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold account, to ensure accountholders still had 
access to similar insurance benefits, it moved all of its customers that had this account on to 
the Select Platinum account. This was because the benefits on the Select Platinum account 
most closely matched the ones that were on the Advantage Gold account. As this wasnt a 
further sale of a packaged account, NatWest didnt need to get Mrs Gs agreement before 
making this change. What NatWest needed to do was notify Mrs G about the upcoming 
change to her account.
NatWest says that in June 2015, it wrote to all Advantage Gold account holders to say that 
the Advantage Gold account was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and 
that customers would be moved to the Select Platinum account, because it included similar 
benefits. The letter explained that the cost of the account would initially remain the same (at 
£15 per month) before increasing to £16 a month in 2016, to match the existing cost of the 
Select Platinum account.
NatWest has provided a sample of what it says it sent to Mrs G, and NatWests records 
show that it held the correct address for Mrs G on its records around the time the letter was 
sent. Given this, I think it wouldve been received by her. 
For me to find in favour of Mrs G, I need to find  in relation to the migration of the account - 
that NatWest did something wrong but, for the reasons given above I dont think that it did. 
Overall, I think that NatWest informed Mrs G of the changes being made to her account, and 
gave her a reasonable amount of time to opt out of the Select Platinum migration, if she no 
longer needed the insurance products provided with the account.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman