DRN-3976285
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy about the limitations of a benefit thats included with his HSBC UK Bank Plc 
Premier credit card and feels that HSBC should have provided clearer information about it.
What happened
Mr A has a HSBC Premier credit card which, as a benefit, offers an extended warranty on 
household items. Mr A wanted to apply the extended warranty to a newly purchased mobile 
phone. But when he tried to do this, he discovered that mobile phones arent covered by the 
benefit. Mr A wasnt happy about this and feels that HSBC should have made it clear that the 
extended warranty benefit didnt apply to mobile phones. So, he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded to Mr A and explained that the extended warranty benefit is offered by one 
of their business partners, a well-known insurance company, and that the terms of the 
extended warranty, including that it isnt applicable to mobile phones, are set by that 
insurance company. HSBC also felt that their documentation about the benefit signposted 
their Premier credit card customers to the insurance companys website, where details of the 
terms of the cover could be viewed. Mr A wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt HSBCs response to Mr As 
complaint was fair and reasonable. Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. This is because HSBC have already 
provided what I feel is a fair explanation to Mr A that the terms of the extended warranty are 
set by their business partner  the insurance company which provides the cover  and that 
as such, it isnt HSBC who made the decision to not include mobile phones in the list of 
items to which the extended warranty could be applied.
Additionally, Im also satisfied that HSBCs documentation about the benefit confirms this 
point and directs the reader to the insurance companys website. Specifically:
6. This insurance can be applied to a wide range of household items, and will provide 
you with two years of breakdown cover, which commences when the manufacturers 
warranty expires. It will also provide you with accidental damage cover, starting at the 
point you register the item with [insurance company] and continues until the end of 
the policy. 
This is at no extra cost and registrations are unlimited. For a full list of items covered, 
including any limitations or inclusions, please refer to [insurance company].
Mr A has provided a screenshot from the insurance company for the HSBC extended 
warranty benefit which doesnt state that mobile phones arent included. But as Mr A has 
himself described it, this is a landing page, and it invites the reader to begin the registration 
process. And given that Mr A discovered that mobile phones arent covered by the policy, it 
stands to reason that information to that effect can be found later during the registration 
process.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that its for the insurance company, and wasnt a decision of HSBC, 
to set the terms of the extended warranty which is offered. And I dont feel that the 
information provided by HSBC about the benefit misled their Premier credit card customers 
or failed to appropriately signpost them to the insurance company where more detailed 
information about the benefit could be obtained. 
Finally, Im aware that Mr A would like this service to instruct HSBC to change their policies 
and processes regarding the information they provide to their customers about this benefit. 
But it isnt for this service to instruct a business to change its policies or processes. Rather, 
this service will only consider issuing instructions to a business about a specific complaint 
when its felt that an unfair outcome has occurred in regard to that specific complaint. But I 
dont feel that an unfair outcome has occurred here  for the reasons explained above.
All of which means that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any 
further action. I trust that Mr A will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman