DRN-2874777
The complaint
Ms B complains about Skipton Building Society and their failure to process her withdrawal of 
funds from her Lifetime ISA (LISA) before the deadline of the reduced government 
withdrawal charge.
What happened
On 1 May 2020, the government announced they would be reducing their withdrawal charge 
from 25% to 20% on any LISA accounts where the withdrawals were completed between 6 
March 2020 and midnight on 5 April 2021.
Ms B held a LISA account with Skipton, and she wanted to make use of this reduced 
withdrawal charge. Ms B says she saw Skiptons website which explained shed need to 
message them directly by no later than 4pm on 1 April 2021 to ensure her withdrawal was 
processed in time to make use of the reduced withdrawal charge. And she did this on 31 
March 2021.
On 1 April, the following day, Skipton messaged Ms B and provided her with an electronic 
form to sign, confirming she was happy with the final withdrawal amount. Unfortunately, due 
to Ms Bs health, she was unable to read this messaged until 3 April, when she signed and 
returned the document.
On 6 April, Skipton messaged Ms B to explain theyd been unable to process her withdrawal 
before the end of the deadline, as that weekend had been a bank holiday weekend. So, they 
explained any withdrawal would be subject to the normal 25% withdrawal charge. Ms B was 
unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms B thought shed requested her withdrawal 4pm deadline Skipton stated on their website. 
So, she didnt think it was fair for them to say shed missed the deadline and charge her the 
increased withdrawal rate. She thought Skipton were discriminating against her due to her ill 
health which impacted her ability to read the message Skipton sent. So, she wanted Skipton 
to allow her to withdraw the funds in her LISA with the 20% withdrawal charge or 
compensate her for the additional amount she would now need to pay.
Skipton responded to Ms Bs complaint and didnt agree. They thought their website made it 
clear that to complete the withdrawal process, Ms B needed to confirm she was happy with 
the withdrawal amount shed receive. And as Ms B didnt do this until 3 April, after the 
deadline theyd set to allow them time to process the withdrawal, they didnt think theyd 
acted unfairly. They explained the withdrawal charge was set by the government, so they 
were unable to reduce the charge shed now have to pay. So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more. Ms B remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Ms B has appointed a representative to deal with her complaint on her behalf. For ease of 
reference, Ive referred to the comments made by this representative as made by Ms B. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought Skiptons 
website, and in particular the FAQs, made it reasonably clear that Ms B would need to 
complete additional steps after messaging Skipton to process the withdrawal. And as Ms B 
hadnt done this before the 4pm deadline on 1 April, she didnt think Skipton had done 
anything wrong by not completing the withdrawal in time to make use of the reduced 
withdrawal charge. So, she didnt think Skipton needed to do anything more.
Ms B didnt agree. She didnt think the screenshots provided by Skipton showing the 
information their website wouldve provided at the time were accurate. She felt shed seen 
information which explained her withdrawal would be processed before the reduced charge 
deadline as long as she messaged Skipton before 4pm on 1 April. And she felt she did this. 
So, she thought Skiptons messaging had been misleading and maintained her view that 
shed lost out financially because of this. So, she wanted Skipton to compensate her for this. 
As Ms B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has caused Ms B. Ive no doubt it was Ms 
Bs intention to make use of the reduced withdrawal charge. And I think Ms B thought shed 
taken all the steps she needed to take to ensure this withdrawal was processed before the 
deadline. So, when she was told by Skipton that she hadnt, and that any withdrawal she 
made would be subject to the higher charge of 25%, I think Ms B wouldve undoubtedly been 
confused and upset. Im aware this impacted Ms B financially and, as Ms B thought shed 
done everything she needed to do, I can understand why she thinks Skipton are to blame for 
the financial impact shes suffered.
But for me to say Skipton have done something wrong, Id need to see that theyd failed to 
process Ms Bs withdrawal request effectively, and this was the reason for the deadline 
being missed. Or, Id need to see that Skipton failed to make Ms B reasonably aware of what 
she needed to do to ensure she met the deadline for the reduced withdrawal charge. And in 
this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Its important to note that the withdrawal rate for LISAs is set by the government. And it was 
the government who decided to temporarily reduce the charge, between 6 March 2020 and 5 
April 2021. So, this wasnt a deadline imposed by Skipton or one they were able to be 
flexible around. Because of this, Id expect Skipton to ensure they gave all of their customers 
fair and reasonable information that allowed them to ensure a withdrawal was processed 
within these deadlines, if they wished to do so.
Ive seen screenshots from Skiptons website, around the time of the withdrawal charge 
deadline. The screenshots show that on 27 May 2020, their website included a section that 
explained the withdrawal charge had been reduced to 20% until midnight 5 April 2021, to 
account for COVID-19 and the impact the pandemic may have on the publics finances. Ive 
seen there was also a note added to Skiptons FAQs about the changes COVID-19 had 
created, directing customers to the LISA information web page. So, I think Skipton made 
their customers, and Ms B, reasonably aware of the reduced withdrawal charge well before 
the deadline set by the government.And Ive seen a screenshot of a warning added to Skiptons system, which explained a 
withdrawal request must be returned by 4pm on 1 April to qualify for the 20% charge. Ms B 
was aware of this deadline. So, on the balance of probability, I think its reasonable for me to 
assume she saw this warning message. 
And Ms B herself has explained she was aware she needed to send a message to Skipton 
to process the withdrawal. Ive seen the How do I withdraw funds from my lifetime ISA 
section of this page, which explains that Ms B would need to send Skipton a secure 
message with the account information that she wanted the funds transferred into as well as 
confirmation she wanted to close the account. Ive seen Ms B did this on 31 March 2021.
But the section also explains that Skipton would then send email confirmation within five 
working days of the request, and the withdrawal charge that would be payable. It then 
explains Ms B would need to confirm acceptance of the withdrawal charge. So, I think this 
section made it reasonably clear that there would be further steps Ms B needed to take 
before the withdrawal could be processed.
I understand Ms B believes she saw a different set of information when she looked on 
Skiptons website. But Ive seen no evidence to show this is the case. Skipton have 
confirmed the information available on the website was updated on 27 May 2020, 27 March 
2021 and then on 6 April 2021, after the deadline had passed. On all of these updates, Ive 
seen screenshots to show the information about how to process the withdrawal in the How 
do I withdraw funds from my lifetime ISA remained the same. So, without evidence to show 
otherwise, Im unable to say Ms B saw information that misled her into believing a message 
to request the withdrawal was the only action she needed to take.
Ive seen Skipton messaged Ms B on 1 April, three working hours after her request to 
withdraw the LISA wouldve been received as she sent it late on 31 March. This message 
confirmed the withdrawal charge Ms B would need to pay and asked Ms B to sign the form 
that was attached and return it to them. I think Skipton acted fairly and reasonably when 
sending this message so quickly, as it allowed Ms B five hours to sign the form electronically 
and meet the deadline of 4pm. The information on the website explained Skipton had up to 
five working days to do this. So, I think this shows Skipton did all they could to process Ms 
Bs withdrawal before the deadline passed.
Unfortunately, due to Ms Bs health, she was unable to read this message. So, she was 
unable to return the form until 3 April, by which time Skiptons deadline of 4pm on 1 April had 
passed. Skipton have explained they needed withdrawals confirmed by this time to ensure 
all withdrawal applications were processed by the end of 2 April, as the deadline set by the 
government fell on a bank holiday weekend. This was Skiptons own business decision to do 
so, which Im unable to comment upon. But I think they made this deadline clear to Ms B and 
thats what Id expect them to do.
Im aware Ms B thinks Skipton have discriminated against her, as it was her ill health that 
meant she was unable to reply to the message in time. And she doesnt think Skipton have 
considered this. But Ive seen no evidence to show Skipton were aware of Ms Bs health at 
the time the withdrawal was processed. And by the time Ms B made Skipton aware of her ill 
health on 6 April, the deadline had already expired. And this was a deadline set by the 
government, so it wasnt one Skipton were able to alter. So, I dont think Ive seen any 
evidence to show Skipton were discriminatory to Ms B during the withdrawal process. 
So, I think Skipton processed the withdrawal as quickly as they could, to allow Ms B the 
opportunity to make use of the reduced withdrawal charge. And I think Skipton made it 
reasonably clear to Ms B that she would need to confirm her acceptance of the charge after shed messaged requesting the withdrawal, as well as the deadline in place for her to do so. 
Because of this, Im satisfied Skipton have acted fairly and reasonably and so, I dont think 
they need to do anything further.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms B was hoping for. And I recognise Ms B was suffering 
from ill health around that time, which she was unable to control. So, I can appreciate how 
upsetting it will have been for Ms B to realise shed lost the opportunity the make use of the 
reduced charge, and the financial impact it will have had. But as Ive explained, it was 
Skipton who set the deadline. And Im only able to direct Skipton to compensate Ms B if her 
loss resulted from something Skipton did wrong. I hope this decision explains why I dont 
think thats the case and goes some way to providing Ms B closure on her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint about Skipton Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman