DRN-2569833
The complaint
Mr R complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) should not have transferred his 
deferred benefits from a defined benefit occupational pension scheme and a personal 
pension plan into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
In order to put matters right Mr R wants Portal to compensate him for the loss he has 
suffered as a result of the transfers. 
Mr R is represented in this matter by a third party.
What happened
In 2015 Mr R discussed the possibility of accessing tax-free cash from two pension pots. At 
the time of the advice he had deferred pension benefits in a defined benefit occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) and a personal pension plan (PPP).
As Mr R had reached 55 years at the time of transferring his pension savings, he was able to 
immediately access a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  often referred to as tax 
free cash). 
At the time Portal gave its advice it recorded that Mr R:
- was single and just about to turn 55 years old;
- lived alone in rented accommodation;
- had an annual income of £17,800;
- had deferred benefits in a defined benefit OPS with a cash equivalent transfer value of 
£69,045. And if Mr R remained in the OPS he would be entitled to an annual pension at age 
62 of £5,284;
- also had a personal pension plan, invested in a with-profits fund, with a transfer value of 
£35,686; 
- had little or no deposit-based savings and around £1,100 outstanding on a credit card;
- had around £300 - £400 disposable income each month; and,
- his attitude to investment risk was recorded as balanced.
Portal also noted that Mr R wanted to access 25% tax free cash for home improvements 
/furnishings, pay off bills, holiday.
Portal sent Mr R an options form. It set out three options:
- transfer both pension pots and take the maximum tax-free cash permitted from both 
pots, a total of £26,182; or
-  take tax free cash from his personal pension plan only. This would allow Mr R to 
take a tax-free lump sum of £8,921 whilst still retaining his valuable defined benefit 
OPS benefits; or
- do nothing. 
The form then set out that if Mr R wanted to take the maximum tax-free cash (and therefore 
transfer both pension pots) Portal would treat him as an insistent client. It included an 
insistent client form with the options form so that Mr R could immediately go-ahead on an 
insistent client basis.
Portal noted on the options form its recommendation was that Mr R should transfer, and take 
the tax-free cash available, from his personal pension plan.
(It appears that Mr R took a withdrawal from his SIPP in 2017. It isnt clear to me whether 
Portal provided Mr R with any advice before this withdrawal was made. However, as Mr R 
didnt refer to this withdrawal as part of the complaint he made to this service I havent 
considered this any further as part of this decision.)
Mr Rs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators. They didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Portal to treat Mr R as an insistent client. And they said that as this was the 
case, they didnt think it should have assisted Mr R in transferring his OPS benefits and PPP 
to the SIPP.
They also said they felt the adviser should have done more to explore why Mr R felt he 
needed to take over £26,000 in tax free cash to pay for home improvements, pay off bills 
and go on holiday when he was living in rented accommodation and the fact find information 
gathered showed he had only around £1,100 of debt. They said they felt any need Mr R had 
for a lump sum could have been met by taking the tax-free cash from his personal pension 
plan, leaving the valuable benefits in Mr Rs OPS in place.
They also said they wasnt satisfied that the funds Portal advised Mr R to invest his pension 
funds in, after he had transferred to the SIPP, were suitable for Mr Rs attitude to investment 
risk. They noted that Mr Rs PPP had been invested in a with-profits fund and he had told 
Portal he didnt want to invest in equities, had little investment experience and was looking 
for a safer investment if it meant safer returns.
Our investigator said they felt that if Portal had clearly explained the risks Mr R was taking 
with his pension pots and hadnt provided a way for Mr R to proceed so easily, he wouldnt 
have gone ahead with the transfers to the SIPP.
In order to put matters right, the investigator said Portal should, as far as possible, put Mr R 
in the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. 
Portal did not accept the investigators view. It said, in summary, that it had carefully followed 
the industry regulators requirements for dealing with insistent clients and Mr R had 
explained in his own words why he wanted to go ahead with the pension transfers.
It said Mr R had been given clear information about the risks of the transfer, and that he had 
decided to proceed regardless. It said it had carefully assessed Mr Rs attitude to risk and 
so, given it had treated him as an insistent client, it had implemented an appropriate 
investment approach, in-line with his stated balanced attitude to investment risk. It also said 
it had re-assessed Mr Rs attitude to investment risk in late 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I think there are three points that I need to consider:
1. Whether the advice Portal gave to Mr R about potentially transferring his OPS 
benefits and his personal pension pot was suitable.
2. Whether it was right for Portal to treat Mr R as an insistent client and facilitate the 
transfer of his pension pots despite it being contrary to its advice.
3.  And, if I am satisfied that Portal acted reasonably in the first two points, to consider 
the suitability of the advice it gave to Mr R about the investment of his pension pots.
Relevant regulatory requirements
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry regulator sets out in COBS 2.1.1R that 
businesses must;
act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance that applied at the time Portal advised Mr R are set 
out in COBS 9. These rules and guidance are intended to ensure that regulated businesses, 
like Portal, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs 
and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment 
objective and risk profile.
In order to ensure its advice was suitable, in line with the requirements of COBS 9.2.2R, 
Portal needed to gather the necessary information about Mr Rs personal and financial 
circumstances for it to be confident that its advice met Mr Rs objectives and that it was 
suitable.
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined 
benefit schemes set out in COBS 19.1.
COBS 19.1.2 says:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits with the 
benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to make 
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the factors that 
do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the 
key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison and its 
advice.
And, COBS 19.1.6 sets out:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or 
opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the clients best interests.
COBS 19.1.7:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or pension opt-
out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where relevant, in relation to the 
rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being 
given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 sets out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Having reviewed the information available, I think Portal gathered sufficient information 
about Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances and from the administrator of his OPS. 
It used the information to calculate what is known as the critical yield. In simple terms, this is 
the rate at which Mr Rs pension investments would need to grow, each year after any 
transfer in order to match (not better) the benefits that he was entitled to from the OPS. 
Portal said that if Mr R transferred his OPS benefits the fund would need to grow by 10.4% 
each year to match the benefits he was giving up (however I note the transfer value analysis 
report said the critical yield would be 9% if a PCLS was taken). Portal explained that as 
achieving the critical yield would be unlikely, it couldnt advise Mr R to transfer his pension 
savings from the OPS.
I think this was the correct recommendation given what Portal knew about Mr Rs 
circumstances. He held valuable guaranteed benefits in his OPS. And it seems that he had 
few other savings that he could use to support himself once he had retired. As this was the 
case, I dont think it would have been appropriate to advise Mr R to give up the guaranteed 
benefits in his OPS and transfer this pension pot to a SIPP.
The position relating to Portals advice on what Mr R should do with his PPP is unclear. In its 
suitability report dated 5 November 2015 it said:
We recommend that you do not transfer out of your existing pension because of the benefits 
that you will lose. However, you have elected to proceed against my recommendation with 
the pension release. Although we can assist you with this, we will treat you as an insistent 
client.
Whilst I have not recommended that you transfer your current policy, you have confirmed to 
me that you wish to proceed as an Insistent Client as you wish to pay off bills, to go on 
holiday, to make home improvements and to purchase a car.
As such I have considered a wide range of pension providers and recommend that your 
existing policies with [name of PPP provider] and [OPS scheme] be transferred to an Aegon 
Retirement Choices (ARC) Personal Pension.
However, the suitability report did not consider or discuss the possibility that Mr R could take 
a tax-free lump sum from his PPP to meet any expenses he might have and leave his OPS 
benefits in place. I am mindful that transferring the PPP and taking the tax-free lump sum 
was noted in the options form sent to Mr R before the suitability report was issued and Portal 
indicated that this was its recommendation. If Portal thought this was a suitable course of action for Mr R I think it should have done more to explain why it felt leaving the OPS 
benefits in place and only transferring his personal pension pot would meet any need Mr R 
might have for a lump sum in its suitability report.
Portal says that, once it had outlined the options open to Mr R, he asked to be treated as an 
insistent client. In effect this meant he wanted to disregard Portals advice and wanted to 
proceed with the pension transfers regardless of whether doing so was in his best interests.
Where a business agrees to act on a clients instructions, despite having advised against the 
course of action, the FCA places a number of obligations on the business to ensure that it 
has provided the client with sufficient information about the risks and disadvantages of their 
intended course of action.
These rules and requirements are intended to help ensure that the business hasnt 
encouraged or persuaded a client to follow an insistent client route.
Having carefully considered the information available I have a number of concerns about 
whether it was reasonable for Portal to treat Mr R as an insistent client. And whether Portals 
actions encouraged Mr R to agree to proceed on an insistent client basis.
I appreciate that Mr R contacted Portal initially, but I dont think it set out sufficiently in its 
correspondence with Mr R, before he agreed to go ahead on an insistent client basis, the 
risks and disadvantages of transferring his OPS and PPP. In particular I dont think it made 
clear that, in line with regulatory requirements, transferring his OPS benefits would not 
usually be considered to be in the best interests of a consumer. 
It is my understanding that the insistent client process is in place to provide a route for 
experienced and fully informed consumers to be allowed to make their own investment 
decisions. At times consumers might wish to take approaches that are not always in their 
best financial interests. But it would be wrong for regulators to prevent those decisions if the 
consumer is fully aware of the risks they are taking.
I dont think this applies in this case. Mr Rs representative says he didnt understand he was 
being treated as an insistent client or that it might not be in his best interests to go ahead 
with the pension transfers. Based on the information available I think it is unlikely that Mr R 
did understand the implications of being treated as an insistent client.
The regulator thinks it appropriate that consumers should be asked to explain, in their own 
words and handwriting, why they intend to disregard the advice that has been provided to 
them. Mr R said he wanted to access his pension funds early, against the advice he had 
received from Portal, because:
As a chef working presently 60 hours a week to earn a moderate salary I would like a 
financial fall back to pursue another job i.e. need a car. At 55 working these long hours 
are not good for my health. I would also like to take my daughter on holiday somewhere 
special as I have never been able to do. There are many reasons why.
The reasons Mr R gave suggest to me that his focus was very much on the output of his 
decision  namely to access the tax-free cash. It doesnt suggest to me that he had been 
sufficiently advised on, and therefore had considered and understood, the risks and 
disadvantages associated with the transfers and the likely long-term impact on his income in 
retirement.
I have also considered the use that Mr R intended to make of the tax-free cash. I am mindful 
that the reasons Mr R gave in his own words for wanting to access the tax-free cash from his pensions is different to those recorded by Portal. Portals records show that Mr R had said 
he wanted to access his tax-free cash for home improvements /furnishings, pay off bills, 
holiday.
I think Portal should have explored with Mr R why his reasons for requiring access to his tax-
free cash had changed. I think this lack of clarity on why Mr R needed to access his pension 
savings indicates that Mr R didnt have a pressing need to access the money and had he 
fully understood the risks and disadvantages, he would not have gone ahead with the 
transfers.
I am also mindful that in the suitability report Portal said Mr R did  not have enough 
disposable income to service your needs. But its own fact find information showed that Mr R 
had a monthly disposable income of £300 - £400. I think Portal should have done more to 
explore this discrepancy with Mr R given the impact giving up his valuable OPS benefits was 
likely to have on his income in retirement.
Having very carefully considered this matter, I am not satisfied that if Mr R had fully 
understood the long term detrimental impact on his income in retirement he would have 
given up his OPS benefits to purchase a car or pay for a holiday somewhere special.
I dont think it is reasonable, for Portal to say that it only effected the transfer because Mr R 
requested it to do so as an insistent client. I dont think that Portal could reasonably conclude 
that Mr R was fully aware of its advice  instead I think that, from the very outset of its 
relationship with Mr R, Portal led him to understand that transferring his pension benefits and 
taking a PCLS would be an appropriate course of action.
As I have concluded that Mr R shouldnt have been treated as an insistent client, it follows 
that I dont think Portal should have assisted him with the transfer of his pension benefits 
from the OPS.
In relation to the transfer of Mr Rs PPP, as I have set out above, I am not satisfied that he 
did have a pressing need for a lump sum. But I think that any need he had for a lump sum 
could have been satisfied by taking the tax-free cash from his PPP and leaving his valuable 
OPS benefits in place. 
Like our investigator I am not satisfied that transferring Mr Rs personal pension pot from a 
with-profits fund to higher risk funds was suitable advice. As Mr R would be taking a much 
higher level of investment risk by transferring his OPS benefits to a SIPP it is not clear to me 
why Portal thought Mr R had the capacity for loss involved in moving his entire pension 
savings from an OPS and with-profits personal pension fund to the funds it recommended.
I note that the reasons Portal gave to support its view that Mr R had the capacity for loss to 
allow him to invest his entire pension savings in the funds it recommended included 
references to his surplus income, the value of his assets, the flexibility of his retirement date 
and whether he could easily reduce his spending. 
However, none of these points were explained in any detail, nor was it clear that they applied 
to Mr Rs personal and financial circumstances. In particular, according to the information 
Portal had gathered Mr R had no other assets and it was not clear how Mr R could easily 
reduce his spending as, despite claiming Mr R had a monthly surplus of income over 
expenditure of £300 - £400, he had no savings. In view of these discrepancies I am not 
satisfied that Portals claim that Mr R had the capacity for loss involved in investing his entire 
pension savings in medium risk funds was correct.I think that if Portal had queried some of the answers Mr R had provided in relation to his 
capacity for loss it would have assessed him as having a lower capacity for loss than it 
assigned to him. As this is the case, I think the funds Portal recommended that Mr R should 
invest his pension savings in were too high risk. I have set out below how Portal should 
calculate whether Mr R has suffered a loss as a result of investing in funds that were too 
high risk for his capacity for loss.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in, but for the unsuitable advice. As Mr R transferred two 
pension types, an OPS and a personal pension plan I have set out below how the redress 
should be calculated for each pension type.
Fair compensation  occupational pension scheme 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr R, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in if he had remained a member of the OPS  though I accept that 
it should take account of the PCLS and additional capital withdrawal(s) that Mr R has 
received. Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Rs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr R.Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Fair compensation  personal pension
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Portal do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Portal must:
Compare the performance of Mr R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below:
Portal should pay into Mr R's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into Mr R's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr R how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr R a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr R asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio Status Benchmark From (start To (end Additional name date) date) interest
Aegon 
Retirement 
ChoicesStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any withdrawal from the Aegon Retirement Choices should be deducted from the fair 
value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
I consider that Mr R's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr R into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
R would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr R could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman