DRN-4000789
Complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed its full losses 
after it fell victim to an investment scam. S is represented by its director, Mr S and so Ive 
generally referred to Mr S throughout the text of this decision.
Background
In April 2020, Mr S was invited to invest his money by an adviser who was recommended by 
a close friend. Unfortunately, he hadnt contacted a legitimate adviser, but a fraudster. The 
precise mechanics of the investment arent clear. Mr Ss representatives told us that the 
opportunity involved a bankers draft for €100 million and this was supposedly going to be 
invested and the scammer was facilitating the investment. The formal documentation he 
was asked to sign appears to have involved a third party construction business and the 
document header describes it as a European Prime Bank Cashiers Cheque Investment 
suggesting it was a form of prime bank guarantee fraud.
Mr S anticipated a return equivalent to 1% of the value of the bankers draft  so €1 million  
although its not entirely clear how long he was expecting to wait to earn such a return. He 
made payments to the adviser from his personal account and his business account. 
However, the payments from his personal account fall outside the scope of this complaint. 
He made a payment of £41,000 from his business account on 1 June 2020.
He eventually realised that it was likely a scam when he wasnt able to contact the adviser 
anymore. He notified Barclays on 3 February 2022. Barclays investigated and agreed to 
refund 50% of the money he lost. However, it said it wouldnt pay him a full refund on the 
basis that Mr S hadnt taken steps to check that the person he was paying was legitimate.
He was unhappy with this response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who concluded that Barclays offer was fair. She didnt think 
Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing that the investment was a genuine one and so she 
found it fair and reasonable for Barclays to only refund him in part. 
Mr Ss representatives disagreed with the Investigators opinion. They argued that the 
payment was out of character and this should have prompted an intervention by Barclays. 
They added that, as Mr S was introduced to the investment by a close friend who he trusted, 
it was reasonable for him to believe the opportunity was a genuine one. The adviser also 
showed Mr S evidence that suggested he was putting his own money towards this 
investment opportunity which further persuaded him that it was likely authentic. Finally, they 
argued that, despite Barclays conclusions, Mr S had carried out research on this type of 
investment opportunity and that he checked against Trustpilot which provided no negative 
reviews at the time. The Investigator queried what research Mr S had done and whether he 
could provide any evidence of these searches and what he found. He couldnt provide any 
evidence of his research into this type of investment, but he did confirm that he didnt look at 
Trustpilot as I was dealing with an individual.
As Mr S disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, 
guidance and standards;  codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. 
The Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of  Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. It is for Barclays to 
establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed 
exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Barclays has accepted that it couldve done more to protect Mr S from the scam. However, it 
has relied on the following exception to justify its decision to only refund 50% of his losses:
A Firm may choose not to reimburse a Customer if  the Customer made payments 
without having a reasonable basis for believing that   the payment was for genuine 
goods or services and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate. 
There are further exceptions in the Code, but they arent applicable in this case. That means 
the issue I need to decide is whether the above exception applies  in other words, did Mr S 
make this payment with a reasonable basis for believing the investment was genuine? 
Ive considered this point carefully and Im afraid I dont find that he did. Ive come to that 
conclusion for several reasons. First, the return he was promised was exceptionally 
generous. From the information Ive seen, he transferred a little under £100,000 to the 
fraudster. He was anticipating a return of €1,000,000 without any obvious risk. I think such a 
return was too good to be true and ought to have put Mr S on notice of the risk that this 
opportunity may not be a legitimate one.
Ive also looked at the legal documentation Mr S was asked to complete. Im surprised he 
wasnt more concerned about transferring money on the basis of this document. It wasnt 
clear what the investment opportunity was or how it was intended to work. And while it aimed 
to look like an authentic legal document, it was littered with grammatical and typographical 
errors which one wouldnt typically expect in a formal document of that kind. 
It also had several provisions that would clearly not be relevant in a document like this one  
such as the parties waiving their right to a jury trial in any related litigation. I think that Mr S 
should have had concerns on reading this document. Im surprised he didnt proceed more 
cautiously, particularly given that he had decades of experience as a chartered accountant 
at the time he chose to invest.
Overall, I think Mr S shouldve acted with far greater care than he did and so I find it was fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to have deducted 50% from any compensation paid. I 
understand it has already paid the remaining sum to S and so it does not need to do 
anything further.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman