DRN-3726067
Complaint
Mr Q is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account.
Background
In February 2022, Barclays took the decision to close Mr Qs account and it sent Mr Q a 
letter confirming that it would be do so in 62 days. However, after a subsequent review in 
March 2022 it then decided to close Mr Qs account with immediate effect. Mr Q complained 
about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Qs complaint. As Mr Q remained 
dissatisfied, Mr Q referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Qs concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr Q unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr Q disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Mr Q and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr Q, a bank is generally under no obligation to continue 
offering an account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr Q is unhappy 
that Barclays closed his account. However, each bank has its own criteria and risk 
assessment for deciding whether to close accounts and providing a customer with an 
account is a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And while Mr Q is unhappy 
that his account was closed without notice, Ive reviewed Barclayss actions and Im satisfied 
that it acted in line with the terms and conditions of his account when taking the action it did. 
So Im satisfied that Barclays had sufficient grounds to close Mr Qs account and as such its 
decision wasnt unfair in the circumstances. I realise that Barclayss decision will have been 
very disappointing to Mr Q and I can appreciate why the closure of his account will have 
caused him inconvenience. But despite this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell 
Barclays it has to continue offering Mr Q an account in circumstances which it has 
legitimately decided it no longer wishes to provide him with one.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr Q has said that he is finding it difficult to open an account 
elsewhere and he believes that Barclays might be responsible for this. However, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that any difficulties Mr Q may be having obtaining an alternative 
account is due to any actions taken by Barclays. So while I sympathise with any difficulties 
Mr Q may be having, Im satisfied that Barclays isnt responsible for this.   
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr Q and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr Q. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell appreciate why Barclays was entitled to close his account in the way that it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman