DRN-1782992
The complaint
Mr G complains about information he was given when he took out buildings and contents 
insurance with Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
In late October 2019 Mr G phoned LV as there had been a theft from his garage and his 
son's motocross bike had been stolen. LV turned down the claim saying motorbikes aren't 
covered under the contents part of the policy. Mr G was unhappy with this saying that when 
he took out the policy he asked if there were any exclusions for items in outbuildings, and he 
was told there weren't.
LV looked into what happened when the Mr G took out the policy. They said Mr G did ask a 
question about exclusions for items in outbuildings. LV said the conversation was vague, 
and they didn't feel Mr G was misinformed about anything. LV said had Mr G asked if his 
son's motorbike was covered, he would've been told 'no'. 
Mr G thought the policy had been mis-sold so brought his complaint to our service. To put 
things right Mr G would like LV to admit they made a mistake and pay the claim.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought there was a 
misunderstanding on the telephone call. To recognise the inconvenience she said LV should 
pay Mr G £100, to which they agreed. However, she didn't think LV should pay the claim.
Mr G disagreed.
Mr G made further points as to why he thought the claim should be covered, which our 
investigator considered. These points didn't change her opinion. She also noted that after 
the policy was taken out LV emailed Mr G with information including a link to the policy 
information which he could've read. Mr G remained unhappy so the complaint has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it's important to tell Mr G that it's clear to me the motorbike was stolen, and this has 
caused a great deal of upset, as well as coming at a cost. I also know it's been very 
distressing to have the claim declined when Mr G thought he was covered. Mr G says the 
policy was mis-sold, so that's what I will focus my decision on, rather how the claim was 
handled.
Insurance policies can't and don't cover every eventuality. Insurers are free to decide what 
events they wish to provide cover for under a policy. They are also free to include exclusions 
in policies for events, or items, they don't want to provide cover for. Here the policy says that 
motorbikes aren't covered under the contents part of the policy.When taking out the policy Mr G asked if there were any exclusions for outbuildings. He was 
given the right information; there are no exclusions for outbuildings. The issue here is that 
the motorbike isn't considered contents, so it's not covered under the policy at all. A good 
comparison would be that a car parked in an outbuilding also wouldn't be covered under a 
contents policy as it would need it's own motor insurance policy. So whether that be on the 
property, or in an outbuilding, the motorbike isn't covered. So I think LV answered the 
question correctly. 
It seems the meaning behind the question was that Mr G wanted to know if the motorbike 
was covered. However, that's not what he asked. I expect LV to answer all questions about 
the policy in a clear and not misleading way. I think they've done that here.
If Mr G had asked a direct question about the motorbike being covered I'm satisfied LV 
would've given the correct answer; which is no.
But could LV have done a bit more? Yes, I think perhaps they could've. I think it's clear Mr G 
had a question and LV could've asked for clarification as to why he asked that question. But 
I don't think they had an obligation to do this as they had given the correct answer to his 
question. 
 LV said the conversation was vague, and our investigator thought they could've been 
clearer. For this LV has agreed to pay £100 which I think is fair and reasonable for what 
happened.
The motorbike isn't covered under the policy as it's not considered contents. Motorbikes, and 
other items in the same exclusion such as cars, caravans and watercraft, have their own 
type of insurance. These items aren't usually considered contents in any policy of this type. I 
think it unlikely that Mr G would've been able to get contents insurance elsewhere that 
covered the motorbike.
For the sake of completeness I've looked at other issues raised by Mr G.
Mr G says that he didn't get the policy document. LV has shown copies of an email they say 
was sent to Mr G with a link to the policy document. Looking at the evidence I'm persuaded 
this was done. And looking at policy document I'm happy the exclusion is prominently 
displayed as it is on the first page of the contents section of the policy under the bold 
heading of 'contents are not'.
When Mr G first called to lodge the claim he says he was told that the claim was covered. 
Whilst this might be the case, at that stage the claim hadn't been validated. If wrong 
information was given, this is a loss of expectation rather than a reason to ask LV to pay the 
claim. I can understand why Mr G is disappointed, but the claim was always going to be 
turned down as the motorbike isn't covered.
Looking at what happened when the policy was taken out I'm satisfied it wasn't mis-sold. 
Putting things right
Having considered everything, I'm satisfied that £100 is fair compensation for this complaint.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited have agreed to pay £100 to settle this 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.So my decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr G £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman