DRN-3656705
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead, Ill provide an overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr I states that he was cold called by an individual claiming to work for an investment trading 
company, G, and was recommended an investment opportunity. Between February and 
May 2020, Mr I made several international payments  totalling £58,296.29  from his HSBC 
bank account. The payments went to a different company, before being deposited into his 
trading account. Mr I also made a small initial deposit through his account with a different 
bank and a one-off payment using his HSBC credit card in May 2020, but these arent being 
considered under this case. 
Unfortunately, G later turned out to be a scam. Mr I reported the matter to HSBC in March 
2021. It attempted to recover some of the money from the beneficiary bank but was 
unsuccessful. Mr I raised a complaint when HSBC refused to refund the money and he 
subsequently referred it to our service. Our investigator wasnt persuaded that HSBC had 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relation to this matter.
Mr I didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
The transactions in dispute were authorised by Mr I using his legitimate security 
credentials. So, under the relevant regulations, hes considered liable for the loss 
unless theres evidence that HSBC could and should reasonably have done more to 
protect him against the risk of fraud and scams and that this would have made a 
difference to his decision-making. 
I dont consider the first disputed payment of £2,000 to be so unusual or 
uncharacteristic that I think HSBC should have intervened. But the second payment, 
for £21,391.82, was out of character for Mr Is general account activity. I can see that 
it did triggers HSBCs systems and it phoned him to query the payment. Ive listened 
to the call and while I appreciate Mr I now says that it wasnt a good time for him to 
speak to the bank, he told the agent that he did have the time to speak.
In addition to checking that it was him making the payment, the agent asked Mr I 
about the nature of the payment. He told her that he was opening a business. The 
agent asked Mr I whether the payment was to his own business and he said it was 
going to a friends account. Mr I was then asked if someone had called him and told 
him to make the payment, and whether hed been influenced. He confirmed that it 
was his decision and he hadnt been influenced. Having thought carefully about what 
was discussed during the call, I find that HSBC asked sufficiently probing questions 
about the payment. I also find that Mr I wasnt forthcoming with his answers. 
Mr I submits that if the agent was more approachable, he might have opened up 
about the true nature of the payment. Ive thought about whether HSBC should have 
probed Mr I further. Mr I recently told our investigator that he didnt tell the truth 
because hed already been warned by his account manager at G that the bank could 
block the payment and he didnt want to be harassed if the payment was stopped. 
Given this, Im not persuaded that Mr I would have been more forthcoming about the 
true nature of the payment as he now claims. And I dont think the scam would have 
unravelled had HSBC probed further. Banks have a balance to strike between 
protecting their customer and executing a properly authorised payment request within 
a reasonable period. Ultimately, Mr I assured HSBC he knew where the payment 
was going. I dont think further questioning would reasonably have alerted the bank 
that he could be at risk of financial harm. So, on balance, I dont think HSBC acted 
unreasonably by processing the payment.
The subsequent payments, which werent of such a large value, were made over 
several months and were spaced out over weeks. As time went on, the payments 
came to form part of Mr Is pattern of account activity. So, they wouldnt reasonably 
have appeared suspicious to HSBC. 
Once Mr I reported the scam to HSBC, errors were made when it didnt notify the 
overseas beneficiary bank about all the disputed payments. But even if things had 
gone the way they should have and HSBC had contacted the beneficiary bank about 
all the payments it attempted to recover, theres no guarantee that the beneficiary 
bank would have responded to the recovery request. Indeed, it is the case that the 
overseas beneficiary bank didnt respond to all the payment requests that it was 
notified about by HSBC. Also, given the length of time that had passed since the 
payments were made, I think its unlikely that recovery would have been successful. 
Fraudsters tend to remove the funds from the beneficiary account within a short 
period of being credited to prevent the funds from being frozen and returned to the 
victim.
In summary, I know that Mr I will be disappointed with this outcome. Not least because the 
matter has been ongoing for some time. I acknowledge that hes experienced personal 
difficulties since losing a large sum of money. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded 
that HSBC can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse him for his losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman