DRN-3073793
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Indigo Michael Limited trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC) 
incorrectly took too much money for his monthly repayment. He then said, it put money into 
his bank account that he didnt ask for. 
Mr C says, SNCs actions are fraudulent because he didnt give SNC permission to take the 
money.  
  
What happened
Mr C first drew down on his facility in July 2020. This was a running credit account where a 
consumer could request funds up to their agreed credit limit.
Until December 2020 Mr C had been making monthly repayments of around £20. But, on 
24 December 2020 SNC took a payment from Mr C of around £116. 
Around this time, Mr C contacted his bank to initiate a chargeback for the repayment SNC 
took. At the start of January 2021, he contacted SNC about this repayment he was also 
unhappy SNC had deposited two sums into his account.
 
It also seems that Mr C was then given incorrect information about the level of his minimum 
account repayments would be moving forward. Unhappy with this response he raised a 
formal complaint with SNC. 
In its final response letter (FRL), SNC agreed that it had given Mr C incorrect information 
about what his minimum payments were likely to be. In order to put things right, SNC offered 
to write off the outstanding balance as it was on 28 January 2021 - £187.90 and close the 
account. 
Mr C was unhappy and asked our Service to investigate the matter further. Mr C later said 
that he hadnt selected the option when opening the facility to allow SNC to deposit funds in 
to his account when it fell below a certain level (also known as a safety net). 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Cs complaint. She though SNC had the correct 
authority to take the funds from Mr Cs account when it did, and she also didnt think it was 
wrong of SNC to put the money into his account either. 
The adjudicator also thought SNCs offer was fair and reasonable to resolve the complaint in 
the circumstances, because it accepted that it had provided him with incorrect information 
about what his minimum repayment amount would be once the chargeback was successful. 
 
SNC agreed with our adjudicators opinion. It did tell us, after we informed SNC that the case 
was being referred to an ombudsman, that it was going to carry out the offer that was 
outlined in its FRL. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. He said this Service was making excuses 
for SNCs action and it didnt have his permission to do what it did. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
Mr C says that he believes SNC has committed fraud on his account because he didnt give 
it permission to either take the value of the payment on 24 December 2020 and neither did, 
he give it permission to deposit funds into his account. He says he never had this option set 
up on his account.
December transactions 
Firstly, SNC has sent us copies of the audit history of the account. It seems, based on this 
history that when Mr C initially set up the facility, he didnt turn on the safety net function 
which wouldve allowed SNC to deposit funds into the account once Mr Cs account balance 
fell below a certain level. 
However, the audit history also shows, that around six minutes after being turned off, Mr C 
logged back in to his account and turned the safety net facility back on. So, this facility was 
turned on.  
While I acknowledge that Mr C says he didnt want these payments, they were made in line 
with the credit agreement as well as having his authority because the facility was turned on. I 
therefore, cant say that SNC made a mistake when it deposited £40.44 on 25 December 
2020 and £46.01 on 31 December 2020 SNC put two amounts into Mr Cs accounts. 
Ive looked back at the statement of account, and I can see Mr C appeared to be making 
online payments to SNC each month of around £20 (from August 2020). He would then 
drawdown further funds, normally for around £15, shortly after hed made a repayment. This 
was the pattern which continued until the end of December 2020.
So, I can understand his shock when on 24 December 2020 £115.93 was taken from his 
account. This was the largest repayment to date, and what appears to have been the first 
auto repay. Following that SNC made the deposits that Ive discussed above. 
In response, to the payment being taken and then further deposits being made, SNC told 
this Service; In regard to repayments, our repayments where taken in line with our credit 
agreement.
As Ive said above, the safety net feature was turned on by Mr C at the point the account 
was opened. So, the fact SNC then deposited funds into his account at the end of December 
2020, as a result of his balance dropping below the safety net, isnt something that I can say 
was an error, for the reasons Ive outlined above.  
Ive also considered the wording of the Credit Agreement that Mr C agreed to when he 
opened the facility. I think this is important, because this is the document that both SNC and 
Mr C are bound by and it explained the terms and conditions and how the facility will work. It says;
However, while ever you owe us money under this Agreement and we have a 
connection to your real time banking data, unless we agree to the contrary, we may 
take a repayment each time we see money coming into your bank
So, the credit agreement, does permit SNC to take funds from Mr Cs account when money 
is received. I also know Mr C is unhappy about the payment at the end of December 2020. I 
can understand why, because it was out of line with how hed previously repaid the facility.
Indeed, five months into having the facility, this was the first time that SNC actually took such 
a large payment. But, when Mr C agreed to the facility, he agreed for a continuous payment 
authority (CPA) to be set up. The agreement says the following; 
When you enter into this Agreement you provide us with a continuous payment 
authority (CPA) so that we can collect repayments automatically from your bank 
account when we see your Bank Balance increase, in accordance with the terms of 
the Agreement, using the debit card you nominate for this purpose. By signing this 
Agreement you are consenting to the use of CPA.
The agreement allowed SNC to use the CPA to take a payment  so the fact that it did do 
that at the end of December 2020, isnt an error and Im satisfied that it had the authority to 
do so. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels that fraud has been committed, but I cant conclude that here. He 
had a credit agreement with SNC that allowed it to deposit funds into his account and this 
function was turned on. I accept the repayment to SNC wouldve come as a shock. Indeed, 
Mr C reacted to this by initiated a chargeback through his bank. I can see, from the 
statement of account and SNCs notes that this chargeback was successful, and the funds 
were returned to him on or around 6 January 2021.
However, given what the credit agreement says, which was agreed at the point the facility 
started, I cant say SNC made a mistake when it took the payment of £115.93.  
Incorrect information about the new minimum payment
SNC has already acknowledged in the FRL that it provided incorrect information to Mr C 
about what his new minimum repayment would be, following the chargeback. SNC has said 
this likely occurred due to the chargeback being completed and then due to an issue with 
our system. This led to Mr C being provided with incorrect information that ultimately, led to 
him raising his complaint with SNC. 
SNC has already, accepted something went wrong here, and said as much in the FRL. So, 
there is in my view, no need to consider whether something went wrong in relation to the 
phone call, but I have considered whether the compensation that SNC has agreed to carry 
out is fair and reasonable. 
Compensation
SNC has already agreed that something went wrong in the way that it dealt with Mr C. And 
Im satisfied that SNCs offer to write off the outstanding balance which included money that 
Mr C borrowed and interest that he now wont need to repay, is a fair one. Its possible, given 
the recent email this Service has received from SNC that the write off has already occurred. The offer to put things right, is in my view more than fair and reasonable. Mr C was using the 
facility, and while there was a dispute about why a large payment was taken which Mr C 
disputes as well as the two deposits that followed, SNC has already agreed to write off the 
balance, meaning that Mr C has had money that hes benefited from and now wont need to 
repay it. 
Even if I were satisfied that something went wrong with his repayments, which Im not, what 
SNC has agreed to do by writing off capital is more than the usual compensation wed 
generally ask a regulated firm to do. I therefore, cant ask SNC to do any more than what it 
has already agreed to do. 
Conclusions 
I appreciate that Mr C says that fraud has been committed on his account, but given the 
terms and conditions of the credit agreement and what I can see in relation to the audit 
history and the presences of a CPA, I dont think SNC made an error when it took the 
payment or when it further funded Mr Cs account. 
So, I think SNCs offer is fair and reasonable. And Im not going to ask it to do any more than 
what it has already offered (if it hasnt already put things right). I appreciate this will be 
disappointing for Mr C, but I hope that hell understand why Ive reached the findings that I 
have.
Finally, If SNC, hasnt already done so, then it should carry out the redress that it outlined in 
the FRL.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, the offer Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SNC) has 
made in the final response letter and which is outlined above is fair and reasonable and I 
make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman