DRN-3787626
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H is unhappy with the service it received from HSBC UK Bank Plc 
surrounding its acknowledgement of the death of the late Mrs H. 
The estate of Mrs H is represented by Mrs Hs widower, whom to avoid confusion Ill refer to 
as Mr T.
What happened
Sadly, in the first quarter of 2021, Mrs H died. Mr T sent a letter to HSBC on 21 March 2022, 
advising it of Mrs Hs death. HSBC didnt acknowledge receipt of Mr Ts letter in a timely 
manner and continued to send marketing and account summary details addressed to Mrs H, 
which Mr T found distressing. Mr T wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
HSBC looked at Mr Ts complaint. It explained that it hadnt received the letter sent to it by 
Mr T dated 21 March 2022, and that it had only been when Mr T had raised his complaint 
about receiving continuing correspondence addressed to Mrs H that HSBC had become 
aware of Mrs Hs death. Mr T wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, so he referred the 
complaint to this service on behalf of the estate of Mrs H.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the explanation given by 
HSBC  that it hadnt received the letter sent by Mr T on 21 March 2022  was persuasive, 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the complaint was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can understand completely how the continued receipt of correspondence 
from HSNC addressed to Mrs H would have been distressing for Mr T, especially given as 
hed sent them a letter advising that Mrs H had died.
But HSBC have said that it never received the letter sent by Mr T, and so were unable to act 
in response to it. And HSBC say it was for this reason  that HSBC was unaware that Mrs H 
had died - that it continued to send correspondence addressed to Mrs H.
HSBC have explained that when a branch receives notice that an account holder had died, 
its process is to contact the estate of that person to discuss how the deceased persons 
accounts will be resolved and to provide any support as needed. Similar processes are 
followed by many other financial institutions, which are generally very mindful of the distress 
that can unfortunately be caused by the receipt of continuing correspondence, as was the 
case in this instance. And as such I feel that if HSBC had received the letter sent by Mr T 
that it would have acted in response to that letter in accordance with its process.
In consideration of all of the above, I feel that its highly likely to have been the case that 
HSBC didnt receive the letter than Mr T sent on 21 March 2022, and that therefore HSBCs 
explanation to Mr T as to why he continued to receive letters addressed to Mrs H was an 
accurate one.
Mr T has noted that HSBC did belatedly, on 29 April 2022, acknowledge the letter he sent 
dated 21 March 2022, and asks how it can be the case that a business can respond to a 
letter it says it never received. 
I can appreciate Mr Ts point here. But it must be noted that Mr T raised his complaint with 
HSBC via an email dated 27 April 2022, and that Mr T included in that complaint a copy of 
the letter hed sent to HSBC dated 21 March 2022. And so, it was only after receiving Mr Hs 
letter, resent via his complaint, that HSBC then acknowledged receipt of that letter shortly 
afterwards.
I dont dispute that Mr T was distressed by what happened here, and I feel that it was deeply 
unfortunate that Mr Ts initial letter wasnt received by HSBC and so couldnt be acted upon 
by them. But while that was deeply unfortunate, I dont feel that it was the result of any unfair 
action or inaction on the part of HSBC. And this is because Im satisfied that HSBC simply 
wasnt aware that Mrs H had died when it sent the continuing correspondence addressed to 
Mrs H that it did.
I realise that this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting here  either personally or in 
his role as a representative of the estate of Mrs H, in whose name this complaint has been 
raised  but because Im satisfied HSBC havent acted unfairly, it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing HSBC to take any further action here. I hope that Mr T 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman