DRN-1406205
Complaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly when 
granting an increase in his overdraft facility. 
Background
Mr R holds an account with Nationwide. He applied initially for an overdraft of £50 and 
shortly after requested an increase to £250, which was approved by Nationwide. Mr R 
believes that Nationwide didnt carry out proper checks before providing the increased 
overdraft as it would have highlighted he had previous credit problems and had been in a 
debt management plan. Mr R has gambling issues and is experiencing financial difficulties 
and believes Nationwide should write off the £250. 
Nationwide say that they carried out their usual credit reference searches and the overdraft 
was approved in line with their credit scoring process. They feel that the level of overdraft 
provided was sustainable given the activity seen on the account. They didnt feel they had 
acted incorrectly. Mr R didnt agree and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator gathered the information available and decided not to uphold the complaint. 
They said that evidence had been provided by Nationwide to show credit checks had been 
carried out at the time of the request. The investigator said Nationwide acted properly when 
considering the overdraft request. 
Mr R disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to the ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available information, evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view in this case and I will explain the 
reasons for my decision.
Mr R has told us about financial and gambling problems hes faced, which must be a cause 
of stress to him. I can see that Mr R felt it was too easy for him to have his overdraft facility 
increased, especially as he had experienced financial difficulties before.
Mr R says his record showed he had been in a debt management plan, but from the 
information I have seen, while credit was previously granted to him, the debt management 
plan he mentioned came into place after the date of his agreed overdraft with Nationwide. 
It is important that all banks take care when providing overdraft facilities and this means a 
credit worthiness assessment is something they should consider. But there are no set 
checks a lender should carry out. Instead, any assessment of affordability should be 
borrower focused and proportionate to, amongst other things, the amount being borrowed.  
When coming to my decision I have considered if Nationwide acted irresponsibly or failed to 
complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy it the borrower was suitable for the 
overdraft approved, here.So, I have considered these points when considering Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R holds a Nationwide Flex Direct Account, this account can have arranged overdraft 
facilities if requested and approved. When Mr R applied for the overdraft Nationwide carried 
out credit reference searches which didnt show Mr R was in a debt management plan as he 
suggested. They also provided this service with copies of bank statements and account 
screen shots showing income levels over the preceding 3 months, which met their criteria to 
approve the overdraft.  
In the circumstances I understand the point Mr R makes about the ease in which the 
overdraft was provided. But I feel, on balance that Nationwide carried out checks 
proportionate to the level of borrowings provided here and with a level of scrutiny appropriate 
to this level and the type of borrowing Mr R applied for. 
I was sorry to learn of Mr Rs gambling issues and that must be a source of worry to him. 
But, gambling is a legitimate way of spending money and the level of activity on the 
statements I have seen, I am satisfied, wouldnt on its own alert Nationwide to a gambling 
problem here. 
Having seen Mr Rs statements that gives a good idea of his income and expenditure, I think 
its important to bear in mind here that the amount Mr R applied for was only relativelysmall. 
There was no obligation on him to use the money the overdraft made available to him all at 
once either.
So overall and on balance, I am satisfied the level of checks undertaken by Nationwide was 
in proportion to the overdraft facility approved  and it would have looked sustainable for the 
purposes it is intended -  to cover short falls and the timing of the receipt of regular income to 
the account.  This is what happened here. 
I understand Nationwide offered Mr R a plan to repay the overdraft over a period of time. If 
Mr R is now experiencing financial difficulties I would urge him to discuss a suitable 
repayment plan with them.  
I know that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision but I am, on balance, satisfied that 
Nationwide have done what I would expect here. It follows, I cant ask anymore of them. 
My Final Decision 
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
2 June 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman