DRN-2113017
The complaint
Ms L complains that British Friendly Society Limited unfairly added an exclusion to her 
income protection policy and declined her claim.
What happened
Ms L took out an income protection policy with British Friendly in 2015. 
In 2017, as part of a review before her policy was renewed, Ms L completed a questionnaire. 
Within that questionnaire, Ms L said that she had been experiencing ongoing problems with 
her shoulder for a number of years. So British Friendly added an exclusion to her policy  
excluding cover for any claim relating to both shoulders.
In 2019, Ms L fell over and suffered a rotator cuff tear to her shoulder. She wasnt able to 
work because of that injury, so submitted an income protection claim. British Friendly 
declined the claim however, and said Ms Ls injury wasnt covered because of the exclusion. 
Unhappy with that decision, Ms L complained. She said the exclusion had been applied 
unfairly, because she hadnt been diagnosed with a shoulder problem at the time of the 2017 
renewal. But British Friendly maintained its decision and Ms L approached this service. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but he didnt think British Friendly 
had acted unreasonably and said:
Ms L had completed a questionnaire in 2017 which showed shed been experiencing 
ongoing problems with her shoulder.
British Friendlys underwriting criteria showed that, where symptoms of a potential 
problem had been present within a previous 12 month period, an exclusion would be 
applied.
British Friendly had acted in line with the underwriting criteria when adding the exclusion, 
and in line with the policy terms and conditions when declining the claim.
Ms L disagreed with our investigators findings and reiterated her concerns. So as no 
agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, British Friendly is required to handle 
claims both promptly and fairly, and should not reject them unreasonably. 
Generally speaking, when someone applies for an insurance policy, theyll usually be asked 
a variety of questions. The answers to those questions are then used by an insurer to 
assess potential risks the individual may go on to present. And, to decide what level of risk (if 
any) the insurer is prepared to cover.
In this case, British Friendly asked specific questions about Ms Ls shoulders. That was done 
via the shoulder disorder questionnaire in 2017, and within it Ms L advised shed been 
experiencing daily muscular stiffness in both shoulders for a number of years.
Ms L has said that she hadnt been diagnosed with a shoulder disorder at the time of that 
questionnaire, and I accept the available evidence in this case supports this. But I must keep 
in mind that British Friendlys underwriting criteria sets out it will apply an exclusion where 
symptoms of a potential problem had existed in the previous 12 months.
So, given the information Ms L had provided about her shoulders in the questionnaire, Im 
not persuaded that it was unreasonable of British Friendly to apply the shoulder exclusion.
In relation to Ms Ls claim, I can see that the terms and conditions of her policy set out that 
benefits will not be paid in respect of any condition excluded by the special terms applicable 
to your policy.
Those same terms and conditions also explain that, Certain factors such as existing medical 
conditions or involvement in dangerous sports may prevent your application from being 
accepted or may require a special terms clause which specifically excludes certain medical 
conditions or activities.
And the special terms on Ms Ls policy set out that, No benefit shall be payable under this 
policy for any illness or disability directly or indirectly due to any injury, disease or disorder of 
either shoulder, their muscles or ligaments.
So, given the injury Ms L claimed for was a rotator cuff tear to her shoulder, Im not 
persuaded that British Friendly acted unreasonably in declining her claim either.
I realise that Ms L will be disappointed by my findings. But for the reasons given above, I 
cant fairly conclude that British Friendly acted unreasonably in this complaint. And I will not 
be interfering with its decision to add the exclusion or decline the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman