DRN-1901981
The complaint
Mr R complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) wont pay a claim he made 
on his motor insurance policy with Calpe after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr R owned a car which he insured with Calpe. In June 2019, he arranged to meet a friend 
for dinner at a restaurant. He drove there in his car and parked nearby. After the meal he 
decided not to drive home. He called at a shop near the restaurant to buy some milk and 
cans of soft drink, and then took a taxi home.
Next morning he couldnt find his car keys. He says he tried to call the taxi driver in case he 
had left them in the taxi. He says he then went to the shop to see if he had dropped them 
there, but was told they hadnt been found. So he rang the police to report his car stolen. 
The car hasnt been recovered, so he claimed on his Calpe policy.
Calpe appointed a firm of claims investigators to look into his claim. They interviewed Mr R 
(twice), and the friend he had dinner with, and reported back to Calpe. As a result, Calpe 
concluded there were too many discrepancies in relation to the information it had about the 
incident, and said it wouldnt pay out on the claim. So Mr R complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part only. He said that 
Calpe hadnt provided regular updates to Mr R throughout the claims process. And it didnt 
tell Mr R promptly that it had checked CCTV footage of the shop for the morning Mr R said 
he had come back to enquire about his keys, and that he didnt appear in it.
The investigator said Calpe should have told Mr R this immediately in case he wanted to 
check this himself, as the footage might be deleted later. So the investigator recommended 
that Calpe pay Mr R £200 to compensate for these deficiencies.
The investigator said Calpe felt there were discrepancies and inconstancies throughout Mr 
Rs claim. In particular, he listed the following issues:
Mr Rs friends statement
There were several inconsistencies between the friends statement, and what Mr R told the 
claims investigator. Mr R said this was explainable by the fact his friend had very recently 
suffered a close family loss. Our investigator acknowledged these discrepancies did cause 
Calpe concern. However, he didnt think in isolation they would be sufficient for Calpe to 
decline the claim.
Statements signed by Mr R
At the conclusion of each of the two interviews of Mr R by the claims investigator, he asked 
Mr R to sign the handwritten notes he had made of what Mr R had said in the interview. Mr R 
said he was initially reluctant to do so as he couldnt understand his writing. However, he 
signed the first statement after amending it to say it had not been read back to him carefully. 
He signed the second statement without making this amendment.
Our investigator said each signed statement contained the following declaration:
I believe the facts stated in my statement of pages are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge and belief.
There were discrepancies between the two statements in the timeline for Mr Rs actions on 
the morning after the theft. Calpe was concerned that in the second statement Mr R 
amended the timeline after his absence from the CCTV footage was put to him. Later, Mr R 
said the first timeline was correct, and in the second interview the claims investigator had 
incorrectly recorded what he had said, and hadnt recorded other information he had 
provided.
Our investigator said it didnt seem likely the claims investigator had made a mistake in 
recording what Mr R said in the second interview. And as Mr R had signed both documents 
to say he was happy with his statement, he couldnt hold Calpe responsible if Mr R later said 
there were issues with what the claims investigator had written down. 
CCTV evidence
Mr R said when he went into the shop on the morning after the theft he hadnt been wearing 
the toupee he normally wore. This might explain why the claims investigator hadnt identified 
him from the CCTV footage.
Our investigator agreed with Calpe that it was unlikely that the claims investigator, having 
met Mr R, wouldnt have been able to pick him out in what was a fairly small shop.
 
 
Having considered all the evidence, our investigator said he couldnt disagree with the way 
Calpe came to its decision to decline Mr Rs claim.
Calpe accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr R responded to say, in summary, 
that:
he wasnt given the opportunity to read his statements; and
he was in the shop the morning after the theft, and the claims investigator had failed 
to record evidence of a phone call to the shop on the morning that he had shown him 
during the second interview.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Calpe appointed an experienced firm of claims investigators to look into the circumstances of 
the loss of Mr Rs car. They identified a number of discrepancies and inconsistencies in the 
information provided to them by Mr R and his friend. The result was that Calpe declined 
Mr Rs claim.Mr R has put forward various explanations in an attempt to explain the discrepancies and 
inconsistencies. Our investigator carefully considered these, but said he couldnt disagree 
with Calpes decision to decline the claim.
Having considered all Mr R has said, I agree with the investigator that the two statements 
Mr R signed were an important part of the investigation of his claim. They made clear the 
importance of what he was signing. Im not persuaded that the claims investigator failed to 
record any evidence that Mr R provided during his interviews. So Calpe was entitled to treat 
seriously any discrepancies in their contents.
Like the investigator, I dont think the explanations Mr R has since offered satisfactorily 
account for the discrepancies. I agree that Calpe should compensate Mr R for the errors the 
investigator described in the way it handled his claim by paying him compensation of £200. 
However, I dont consider Calpe acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr Rs claim.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable that Calpe compensate Mr R for the way it handled his claim 
by paying him £200.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Calpe Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr R compensation of £200 for its poor handling of his claim. However, I make no 
other order against Calpe Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman