DRN-2196602
The complaint
Ms M, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains she was mis-sold 
a Regular Investment Plan by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. 
The CMC has said, in brief, that the plan featured unnecessary life cover, exposed Ms Ms 
money to too much risk and more suitable alternatives werent considered.
 
What happened
Ms M was recommended the unit-linked savings plan in 1999. At the time she was aged 35, 
married and in full-time employment. It was set up with premiums of £30 per month over 20 
years, with a sum assured of £7,200. All premiums were invested into the Managed Fund.
Ms M maintained the plan for its full term. She took a partial withdrawal of just over £2,200 in 
2015 at which point the monthly premiums reduced to £21 until the plan matured in August 
2019, when Ms M received back just over £8,000. In total the plan returned £10,275.83 with 
Ms M having paid in £6,807 in premiums.
The CMC made the complaint as set out above in 2019. Sun Life didnt uphold it, saying that 
the plan had been broadly suitable for Ms M. 
It said the life cover was a feature shed have benefitted from as a married person and it 
made the plan qualifying for tax purposes. Shed been categorised as a 5 on a scale of 1 to 
10 for risk, so investment in the Managed Fund  which she wouldve selected herself  was 
consistent with this and seemed reasonable given her circumstances. 
Also, alternatives such as ISAs or a full endowment had been discussed with Ms M. But Sun 
Lifes ISA at that time wouldve required a higher monthly payment and a full endowment 
wouldnt have allowed partial surrenders, which was a feature that appealed to Ms M and 
which, as noted, she made use of.  
The CMC referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should 
be upheld, for much the same reasons as Sun Life. 
The CMC responded to say that the adviser had a responsibility to ensure the product was 
the most suitable for Ms M and that ISAs or PEPs with lower monthly contributions wouldve 
been available elsewhere. The life cover was unnecessary and another reason why a more 
tax-efficient alternative shouldve been used. In short, the plan wasnt viable as a savings 
vehicle, particularly given the reduction in yield that had led to a very poor return.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matters been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I also dont think the complaint should be upheld. While there may have 
been other products that Ms M couldve used as a savings vehicle, I think that Regular 
Investment Plan recommended by Sun Life was broadly suitable for her needs and 
circumstances. 
Ms Ms attitude to risk was categorised as a 5 on a scale of 1 to 10 that measured how 
speculative she was prepared to be when investing. She doesnt appear to have had any 
investment experience, but I dont think that this rating  which led to investment in the 
Managed Fund  was unreasonable. The fact find completed by the adviser recorded that 
Ms M had £25,000 on deposit and the £30 per month appears to have been quite affordable 
from her disposable income. Overall, I dont think the recommendation carried to much risk 
for her. 
It was also recorded that there was discussion of alternatives and Ms Ms reasons for 
wanting to proceed with the plan were noted. She did have existing life (and critical illness) 
cover in place, but I nevertheless dont think the cost of the additional life cover provided by 
the plan rendered it unsuitable. It wouldve provided useful additional cover and made the 
plan qualifying for tax purposes. It appears that the CMCs comments in respect of the 
reduction in yield were based upon the surrender value received at maturity and didnt into 
account the partial surrender of 2015. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman