DRN-3089909
The complaint
Mrs B complains about advice and service she and her husband (Mr B) received from 
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). The advice was about managing the 
inheritance tax liabilities of Mrs Bs and her husbands estates.
Mrs B brings this complaint to us as an individual customer, and as representative for Mr Bs 
estate. Shes also eligible to bring complaints to us as trustee of some trusts that were set up 
as a result of SJPs work.
 
What happened
The advice Mr and Mrs B received from SJP in 2013 led to them each setting up loan trusts. 
And in 2014, SJPs advice led to Mr and Mrs B each setting up gift trusts.
Letters from SJP to Mr and Mrs B at the time explained some of the key points for these 
sorts of trusts. The money put into the loan trusts would still be seen as owned by Mr or 
Mrs B, but any growth it achieved wouldnt belong to them for inheritance tax purposes. 
Money added to the gift trust would effectively be given away by Mr or Mrs B, but could still 
incur an inheritance tax bill for up to 7 years after being gifted. 
Mr B then sadly died in 2015. I understand that meant his estate used some of its nil-rate 
band to cover the inheritance tax due on the money given to the gift trust. My understanding 
is that the majority of the rest of Mr Bs estate passed to Mrs B without any inheritance tax 
needing to be paid. 
Mrs B went on to change adviser within SJP, and then to move to a different company. I 
understand that in 2019 Mrs B encashed the loan trust set up by Mr B, incurring an income 
tax liability on the investments gain. 
Those events led to Mrs Bs complaint letter in July 2020. She felt SJPs adviser should have 
done more to protect Mr Bs nil-rate band given his age and health at the time the gift trust 
was recommended. And she felt the adviser should have done a full review of her finances 
following Mr Bs death. She said that not doing that meant she missed the chance to encash 
the loan trust sooner, and so not incur a tax liability from it. Mrs B also complained that 
money put into the gift trusts hadnt been invested, and was simply held as cash. And Mrs B 
said an explanation of SJPs billing hadnt been provided when shed asked for it. 
In response, SJP explained that the money in the gift trust had been invested, and wasnt 
simply held as cash. They noted that Mr and Mrs B hadnt wanted to use life assurance at 
the time to cover their inheritance tax liabilities as theyd felt the premiums would be 
expensive. And they pointed out that a life policy wouldnt protect the nil-rate band; it would 
pay a sum to cover the tax payable. SJP also said theyd been unaware of Mr Bs health 
problems in 2014, and had noted in their letters that he was in good health.
SJP noted that Mrs B had incurred an income tax liability cashing in the loan trust, but said 
this could have been handled better by assigning the benefits of the trust out before 
encashing it. They said having that option meant they wouldnt usually advise cashing in a 
loan trust on death, unless there was a specific need for the money at that point. SJP also 
noted that the adviser had met Mrs B in August 2015  following Mr Bs death  and had 
discussed the options for the loan trust with her then.
SJP also felt their key facts documents  provided to Mr and Mrs B at the time of their advice 
 suitably explained the fees for each of the products sold to them. 
Unsatisfied with that response to her complaint, Mrs B came to us. Our investigator 
considered the points raised but she found that SJP had provided a fair and reasonable 
service to Mr and Mrs B in this case. As such, she said they didnt need to do anything more 
to put matters right. 
Mrs B has disagreed, highlighting where her recollection of events differs to SJPs records. 
She still feels more should have been done to reduce the tax shes had to pay. 
Unresolved, this complaint has come to me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find SJP have acted reasonably here. I appreciate thatll be a 
disappointing outcome for Mrs B, but Ill explain why Ive come to that conclusion. 
There are some key discrepancies between Mrs B and SJP in this case. Ive had to reach a 
conclusion on these, based on what I think is more likely than not to be the case. 
One point is whether SJP were told Mr B had a health problem in 2014. Mrs B is adamant 
they were. But SJPs records from the time show they understood Mr B to be in good health. 
I note that SJP put this in a letter they sent to Mr and Mrs B in May 2014. I find it strange that 
theres no evidence of Mr and Mrs B then going back to SJP to correct that. That suggests to 
me that Mr and Mrs B were happy with SJP being unaware of any significant health 
problems, even though that then affects how suitable the advice being received was. 
I note an email Mrs B has pointed to as proof that SJP knew about Mr Bs health problems. 
The adviser wrote they hoped Mr B was feeling better. But that crucially stops short of saying 
from what. And the comment seems unusual given the seriousness of Mr Bs health 
condition, where getting better isnt always possible. 
So I dont view that email as confirming the adviser was aware of the condition. And I dont 
see any other evidence of Mr or Mrs B making the adviser aware of the condition prior to the 
advice about a gift trust being given.
That then leads me consider the suitability of the advice on the basis just of Mr Bs age, 
which would have been apparent to SJP at the time. Given the average male life 
expectancy, Mr B was at an age where living for seven years to take the gift outside of his 
estate wasnt guaranteed. 
But I can see that SJPs May 2014 letter listed other options that were discussed at the time. 
And there seems to be a reasonable explanation for not choosing to recommend each of 
those options. The chosen recommendation has led to money has passing as a gift from Mr Bs estate and 
then incurring an inheritance tax liability. But that reflects that he died within seven years of 
making the gift. Given how shortly after the advice Mr B died, I cant see there were any 
viable options to avoid that sort of thing happening. 
I appreciate Mrs B now feels a life assurance policy would have been a good idea. But the 
recommendation letter from the time shows she and Mr B were noted not to feel the 
premiums for such a policy would be a reasonable cost. Given Mr Bs age  and his health 
condition  the cost for that sort of cover might well have been significant. And that cover 
doesnt protect the nil-rate band in any case. It simply pays money that could then be offset 
to mitigate any liability incurred. 
Here, Mrs B has other options to mitigate the fact that some of Mr Bs nil-rate band has been 
used. Its ultimately her estate that wont have the use of that amount. If Mrs Bs estate was 
sufficiently smaller  possibly from making further gifts herself  she could effectively reduce 
her need to rely on the nil-rate band. So I dont see theres an actual loss here in any case. 
I ultimately consider the advice to have a gift trust without an associated life policy reflected 
the information SJP had from Mr and Mrs B at the time. So I find it was a reasonable 
recommendation for them to make. Im not upholding this part of the complaint. 
A point of dispute affecting the loan trust advice is whether SJP visited Mrs B after Mr B had 
died. SJPs records say that they did, in 2015 and in 2016. And Mrs Bs comments about 
discussing the value of the gift trust for inheritance tax purposes with the adviser also 
suggest there was at least a meeting or discussion between them following Mr Bs death.
From that sort of discussion, Id expect Mrs B to have been able to tell SJP at the time if she 
felt she wasnt getting enough of a review from them. And I accept what SJP are saying here 
in any case  that the decision to encash the loan trust the way Mrs B did isnt necessarily 
the only way that could have been done. I cant see it was SJPs advice  or a lack of advice 
from them  that led to Mrs Bs decision to act the way she did, and so incur a tax liability 
that was possibly avoidable.
On the dispute about the gift trust being invested, Ive seen that it appears to have been 
invested rather than put in a cash account. It appears to have gained in value as a result, 
with those gains falling outside of Mr Bs estate and so avoiding inheritance tax. I cant see 
any evidence that supports Mrs Bs position that the money wasnt invested. So Im not 
upholding that bit of the complaint. 
And while I can appreciate Mrs B wants more of an itemised breakdown of the fees she and 
Mr B have paid SJP over the years, I note that the letters from 2013 and 2014 included 
billing information and illustrations at the time the products were sold. So I find enough was 
done at the time to make Mr and Mrs B aware they were being charged for the service they 
received, and what that cost would be. 
Ive also seen letters that itemised the withdrawals from the loan trust investments over the 
years. These split the figures to show what Mr and Mrs B had withdrawn  up to June 2014  
separately to withdrawals made for initial and ongoing adviser charges. I see that information 
as sufficient to show what SJP were charging Mr and Mrs B for their work. 
Overall, I find SJP have provided a fair and reasonable service to Mr and Mrs B on the 
complaint raised by Mrs B. It follows that Ive decided nothing further will be needed from 
them to put this matter right. My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and the 
estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman