DRN-4020441
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the decision by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) to turn down her
Home Protection Plus claim.
What happened
Mrs S holds Home Protection Plus cover. This provides up to £1,000 towards the repair
costs following the breakdown of a boiler, or hot water and heating system.
When Mrs Ss boiler started leaking water, she called IPA and it offered to arrange for an
engineer to attend. Mrs S asked if she could arrange this herself, which IPA agreed to.
Mrs Ss plumber advised her that it wasnt worth repairing the boiler, so Mrs S agreed to
replace it. She later asked IPA to contribute £1,000 towards the cost. IPA turned down the
claim and said that the boiler was beyond economical repair, which was excluded under the
policy. It also advised Mrs S that she couldnt claim anyway because she had an oil-fired
boiler. Unhappy with this, Mrs S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought IPA hadnt made it
clear to Mrs S what the policy covered when she called it about her broken boiler. She
thought that if IPA had done this, then Mrs S would have likely had the boiler repaired rather
than replaced. She recommended IPA pay the claim up to the policy limit as though Mrs S
had had the boiler repaired. The investigator also thought IPA had caused Mrs S
unnecessary upset by wrongly advising her that her boiler wasnt covered because it was oil-
fired. She recommended IPA pay £100 compensation for this.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 March 2023. Heres what I said:
The policy excludes repairs or replacement of boilers that are beyond economical repair.
The policy says beyond economical repair means:
Your boiler/hot water system will be deemed beyond economical repair (BER) by our
authorised contractor if:
1. The total cost of parts to repair it (including VAT) exceeds 85% of the manufacturers
current retail price of:
the same or equivalent model of your boiler bought as new; or, if this is not
available,
a new boiler of the same or similar make, model and output as your boiler.
2. Or we are unable to obtain spare parts to repair it
We dont know for certain that the cost to repair the boiler would have exceeded 85% of the
price of a replacement boiler. However, Mrs S has said that two plumbers examined the
boiler, and both concluded that it wasnt worth repairing. She also said that, even if it had
been repaired, she knew that it would need to be replaced in the next few years. On
balance, I think this supports that the boiler was likely beyond economical repair, and 
therefore not covered under the policy.
Having said that, I agree with our investigator that IPA ought to have told Mrs S of the
beyond economical repair exclusion when she first called it about her boiler. Thats because
Mrs S told IPA that she intended to arrange for someone to look at the boiler herself. So I
would have expected IPA to have made her aware that if her plumber found the boiler was
beyond economical repair, then a repair or replacement wouldnt be covered.
I dont require IPA to make any payment towards Mrs Ss replacement boiler. Even if IPA
had made her aware of the exclusion, she still wouldnt have been able to make a successful
claim. However, IPA should still cover the initial call out fee of Mrs Ss plumber, if this was
charged. I also think it should pay her £150 compensation to recognise the confusion it
caused by failing to make her aware of the beyond economical repair exclusion.
Ive also listened to a call between Mrs S and an agent acting on IPAs behalf. Mrs S was
wrongly advised that her boiler wasnt covered at all under the policy because it was oil-fired.
IPA accepts that Mrs S was given the wrong information here. I agree with our investigator
that it would be appropriate for IPA to pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the unnecessary
upset and confusion this caused her.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make before I 
made a final decision. 
Mrs S responded to say she insured her boiler for 25 years and hadnt been informed by IPA 
that the policy didnt cover oil-fired boilers. 
IPA accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S says she hadnt been informed by IPA that the policy didnt cover oil-fired boilers. To 
be clear, the policy does cover oil-fired boilers. Mrs S was wrongly advised by IPAs agent 
that her boiler wasnt covered because it was oil-fired. It is for this reason that Im requiring 
IPA to pay Mrs S £100 compensation for the confusion caused. 
As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, I remain of the view 
that IPA should pay Mrs S total compensation of £250, as well as her plumbers call out fee -
and for the same reasons as stated in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do 
the following:
reimburse Mrs S for one plumbers call out fee if this was charged. Interest* should 
be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the invoice was paid to 
the date of settlement, and
pay Mrs S total compensation of £250.
* If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman