DRN-4351057
The complaint
Miss V says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim to a 
an authorised push payment (APP) car purchase scam. She says Lloyds should 
reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
In summary, Miss V fell victim to a car purchase scam. She saw an advert for a car online 
and rang the number. She realised the seller was a mutual friend of someone else that she 
knew and knew that the seller had been selling and buying cars for many years. Miss V 
advised she discussed the car in question, with the seller advising that it needed a little bit of 
work and some parts and then it could be sold on for a profit. While Miss V did not know the 
seller  as she knew their mutual friend, she assumed the seller was honest and 
professional. Believing everything to be genuine, Miss V sent two payments on 
13 October 2017, one payment of £10 followed by a second payment of £10,990 for the 
purchase of the car.
Over the following weeks and months, Miss V was then given excuses as to why the car 
couldnt be delivered or collected and ultimately, she realised that she had fallen victim to a 
scam.
Miss V reported the matter in May 2018. Lloyds contacted the beneficiary bank (the bank 
where the funds had been sent to) to see if any funds could be recovered. Unfortunately no 
funds remained.
Miss V then formally complained to Lloyds in December 2022 as she felt Lloyds ought to 
have done more to prevent her from fraud. Lloyds issued its final response letter on 
14 January 2023 advising that it didnt consider it was liable for the losses Miss V had 
incurred. It considered Miss V made regular faster payments out of her account and so the 
faster payments she made werent abnormal for her account activity  so it hadnt intervened 
when the payments were made. It also explained that it had contacted the receiving bank 
and as no funds remained it wasnt able to recover any of the money Miss V had sent.
Unhappy, Miss V brought her complaint to our service. Our Investigator reviewed the matter 
and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
They explained that banks are expected to process payments and withdrawals that its 
customer authorises it to make. But they also explained that there are some situations where 
banks, taking into account relevant rules, codes and best practice standards, shouldnt have 
taken their customers authorisation instruction at face value  or it should have looked at 
the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
In this case, the Investigator considered the payment Miss V made for £10,990 was out of 
character and Lloyds ought reasonably to have carried out some additional checks or 
questioned Miss V about the purpose of the payment. But the Investigator concluded that 
even had Lloyds intervened she didnt think it likely that it could have prevented the loss. 
And that was because of the circumstances surrounding the relationship between Miss V 
and the seller with Miss V believing everything to be genuine at the time and that they had a 
mutual friend, and that Miss V knew the seller bought and sold cars.
So the Investigator concluded that Lloyds, had they intervened, would have been  on 
balance  assured that Miss V wasnt at risk of financial harm or was falling victim to a scam. 
With regards to the recovery of any funds, as Lloyds explained that it had received a 
response from the beneficiary bank advising that no funds remained, the Investigator 
considered there wasnt anything further that Lloyds could do to recover the funds. 
Miss V disagreed with the Investigators opinion and as the matter hasnt been resolved, its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint and the responses briefly, in less detail than 
has been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is the heart of the matter here  which is to determine whether 
Lloyds should have done more to prevent Miss Vs losses. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as an 
alternative to the courts. 
Having thought carefully about Lloyds actions, Im not upholding Miss Vs complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for her. Miss V sent money in good faith to 
someone she felt she could trust and was cruelly taken advantage of by that person. But in 
weighing everything up, I dont consider I can fairly say Lloyds are liable to reimburse Miss V 
for the payments she made. Ill explain why.
Why the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) isnt applicable
The CRM Code was implemented to further combat and prevent the increase of fraud and to 
reimburse consumers who are victims of fraud and scams, in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. But the CRM Code came into force in May 2019  and it isnt retrospective. 
As Miss V payments were made in October 2017 it means the CRM Code isnt applicable in 
this case.The relevant law and regulations in place at the time 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. 
It is agreed by all parties that Miss V made the payments from her Lloyds account. So it is 
the case that Miss V authorised the payments that are in dispute. And under the Payment 
Service Regulations 2009 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that means 
Miss V is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Miss V was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
However there are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction or payment, 
even though it may have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking, firms like Lloyds are 
expected to be on the lookout for and to protect customers from fraud.
What does this mean for Miss V?
Given the above, Ive looked to see first, whether Miss Vs payments were unusual and out 
of character. And second, whether Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have stepped in and 
intervened  so taking some additional steps or checks with Miss V about the payments. 
But importantly, I have to determine whether these additional checks would have put Lloyds 
on notice that something might not be right, and that Miss V may be at risk of financial harm 
or revealed the scam. 
Here Lloyds has explained that it didnt intervene on the payments Miss V made. I agree that 
Lloyds didnt need to intervene on the £10 payment Miss V made  but I find the follow up 
payment of £10,990 to be out of character and unusual for Miss Vs account activity. So I do 
think it ought to have carried out some additional checks on the payment Miss V was 
making.
However, and as mentioned above, with any intervention, I need to determine whether that
intervention should have given Lloyds cause for concern that Miss V may have been at risk 
of financial harm.
A conversation didnt take place when the payment was made in 2017. But Im satisfied I can 
make a finding, on the balance of probabilities, about what I think was more likely than not to 
have happened had a conversation taken place. Having carefully considered Miss Vs 
testimony about what happened in relation to the scam she fell victim to, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds, had it intervened like I consider it ought reasonably to have done, would have been 
on notice that Miss V was at risk of financial harm or that the scam would have been 
revealed.
I say this because Miss V believed everything to be genuine at the time. And I think that is 
extremely important in this case. I think, on balance, Lloyds would have been reassured had 
they spoken with Miss V at the time. Miss V has advised that the seller was a mutual friend 
of someone else that she knew, and she knew that the seller had been selling and buying 
cars for many years. Miss V has explained while she did not know the seller  as she knew 
their mutual friend, she believed the seller was honest and professional and she didnt have 
any doubts. In short, at the time, Miss V had no doubts and fully believed everything to be 
genuine and ok at the time of making the payment.All things considered I dont think any conversation Miss V had with Lloyds would have more 
likely than not revealed to Lloyds the scam Miss V was falling victim to, or that she was at 
risk of financial harm from fraud  which may have prompted Lloyds to have been concerned 
to such an extent that it would have asked further probing questions. I think Lloyds would 
have been reassured that Miss V was buying a car from a known acquaintance so wouldnt 
have reasonably foreseen that Miss V was at risk of financial harm or was being scammed 
here. And I cant be as satisfied as I would need to be that had Lloyds gone on to provide 
any further advice (which Im not persuaded it would have needed to, given the above) that 
Miss V would have acted any differently and not gone ahead with the payment such was her 
belief in the seller and that everything was ok at the time.
 
I know Miss V feels strongly on this point. But I have to be mindful of what she thought at the 
time  and that was that she trusted the seller through having a mutual acquaintance and 
knowing that the seller was in the business of buying and selling cars. Overall, I dont think 
Lloyds would have been on notice that Miss V was at risk or that the scam would have been 
revealed.
Recovery of the funds
I have also considered whether Lloyds did all it could to try and recover the money Miss V 
lost. Lloyds did contact the beneficiary bank when Miss V reported the matter. But some time 
had passed by this point. Lloyds received a response from the beneficiary bank advising that 
no funds remained, so unfortunately there wasnt anything further that Lloyds could do to 
recover Miss Vs funds. 
Summary
While I appreciate Miss Vs been the unfortunate victim of a cruel scam  and sadly through 
a person whom she felt she could trust, I think Lloyds decision not to refund her in this 
instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this because I dont find Lloyds, 
even had it carried out some additional checks on the payment Miss V made, would have 
been on notice that Miss V was potentially at risk of financial harm. So I dont find I can fairly 
and reasonably say Lloyds could have prevented the loss or should be held liable in some 
way. And unfortunately, as no funds remained in the beneficiary account, there wasnt 
anything further Lloyds could do to help Miss V recover her funds.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman