DRN-3235699
The complaint
Mr A has complained about the poor service he received from South East Mortgage 
Solutions Limited (SEMS). He would like the fee of £295 he paid to be refunded.
What happened
Briefly, In 2019 Mr A engaged the services of SEMS to arrange a mortgage for him. Hed 
previously used the services of SEMS in 2015 and had been happy with them. Mr A wanted 
to sell his current property and move house, but was advised by SEMS that, rather than sell 
his existing property, he should re-mortgage it, and use the money raised in the re-mortgage 
as the deposit on his new property. Mr A said SEMS told him he could rent out his existing 
property and the rent would cover the mortgage repayments.
On 22 November 2019 Mr A paid a fee of £295, which he has told us he understood from 
SEMS was part-payment of his mortgage application fee. After that, Mr A wasnt able to 
contact SEMS, although he received a text on 29 November 2019 to say that the broker had 
sprained her ankle, but that she had applied for a second charge loan so that Mr A could pay 
the deposit to buy another property. (This second charge loan did not materialise.)
It wasnt until 7 January 2020 that Mr A was contacted by SEMS. The broker said she wasnt 
able to arrange a re-mortgage for Mr A on his existing property because this would have to 
be on a repayment basis over six years and the monthly repayments would be too high. 
Mr A clarified with SEMS information that SEMS already had  which is that the property 
was subject to a Right to Buy charge in favour of the local authority, which would affect the 
amount he would be able to borrow. Mr A would also have an early repayment charge on 
repayment of his existing mortgage. As a result, Mr A didnt think the advice hed been given 
was suitable and decided not to proceed.
Mr A asked for the £295 hed paid to be refunded. He was told by SEMS that this was 
non-refundable. Mr A complained but, in breach of Financial Conduct Authority regulations, 
the complaint was neither acknowledged nor responded to.
Mr A contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An investigator repeatedly asked SEMS 
to provide its file of papers and granted extensions of time for this. However, various 
excuses were made as to why the file hadnt been sent  that the adviser had broken her 
arm, that the file had been sent, that it would be re-sent, that family members were ill and the 
file would be emailed  but nothing was ever received by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
in response to the complaint. 
In the absence of any signed terms of business provided by SEMS to show that Mr A had 
agreed that the £295 was non-refundable, the investigator upheld the complaint. SEMS was 
directed to refund the £295, together with interest at 8% per annum simple. The investigator 
also asked SEMS to pay £100 for trouble and upset.
SEMS agreed to do this and claimed on several occasions to have written to Mr A in order to 
settle his complaint. Mr A confirmed to us that hed heard nothing from SEMS. In the 
circumstances, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that the £295 must be refunded to Mr A, along with simple interest at 8% per annum 
from 22 November 2019 to the date of payment. I have seen no terms of engagement to 
show that this was a non-refundable fee Mr A was required to pay. Mr A says he was told  
and I accept this  that the fee was a part payment towards his mortgage application fee.
I also think SEMS has caused Mr A considerable trouble and upset. During the course of the 
transaction SEMS came up with various excuses as to why it hadnt progressed Mr As 
application. 
After he complained, SEMS failed to comply with its regulatory obligation to address Mr As 
complaint, leaving him no option but to complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service. After 
we had the complaint, we were given various excuses as to why the file hadnt been 
provided, and were told several times it had been sent. We were also told by SEMS that it 
had written to Mr A to settle the complaint, but Mr A confirmed hed received nothing, either 
by letter or email.
I think its unlikely that both we and Mr A experienced exactly the same difficulties in 
receiving mail  either physically or electronically  from SEMS. I think its more likely that 
SEMS simply decided not to respond and made excuses as to why neither we nor Mr A had 
heard from it. This is unacceptable, both in relation to the service Mr A was entitled to 
receive and SEMS obligation to co-operate with, and respond to, our enquiries.
Putting things right
SEMS must refund the £295 plus interest at 8% simple per annum. Im satisfied Mr A has 
been caused sufficient trouble and inconvenience to warrant a payment of compensation 
from SEMS. This situation has been unresolved since Mr A first asked for his money back on 
7 January 2020, more than two years ago. Im satisfied that £100 is a fair and reasonable 
amount for this.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In settlement, I direct South East Mortgage 
Solutions Limited to do the following:
refund Mr A the fee of £295;
pay interest on that sum at 8% simple per annum from 7 January 2020 to the date of 
payment;*
pay Mr A £100 for trouble and upset.
* If South East Mortgage Solutions Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from any interest, it should tell Mr A how much it has taken 
off. South East Mortgage Solutions Limited should also give Mr A a tax deduction certificate 
if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman