DRN-3443485
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the support offered by Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax 
when she experienced financial difficulty and the ultimate recording of a default.
What happened
The background to this complaint is very well known to both Mrs C and Halifax. I wont 
repeat in  detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision Ill mainly focus on 
giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs C experienced financial difficulty during the COVID-19 pandemic. Halifax agreed to a 
three month COVID-19 payment deferral in March 2020. This meant that no payment was 
required in April, May or June 2020. Mrs C was required to resume her contractual loan 
repayments in July 2020. Mrs C met her full repayments in July and September 2020.
In November 2002 she got in touch with Halifax again as she was behind on her 
repayments. Halifaxs notes say that Mrs C explained that when her payment deferral period 
ended she felt she would be able to continue with her normal, agreed repayments - as her 
income had picked up again. However this didnt work out and she then fell behind on her 
repayments.
Halifax agreed to apply a 30 day hold to the loan account to allow Mrs C time to explore 
applying for a further payment deferral. Halifax told Mrs C to get back in touch by 6 
December 2020. 
Further repayments were missed and arrears continued to build up. Halifax sent Mrs C 
letters about the arrears, asking her to get in touch and outlining the possible consequences 
should no action be taken. A default notice was sent on 23 February 2021 and Mrs C did 
then get in touch with Halifax again on 29 March 2021. No way forward was agreed on this 
call and the loan account was ultimately recorded as defaulted.
Mrs C raised a complaint with Halifax. They didnt uphold the complaint and she referred it to 
our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the evidence but didnt 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. As Mrs C didnt accept this, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The support offered by Halifax
When Mrs C let Halifax know about her financial difficulties they approved a three month 
COVID-19 payment deferral. This was positive and in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidance at that time.
When Mrs C experienced further financial difficulties around November 2020 it was positive 
and supportive that Halifax applied a 30 day interest freeze. This allowed Mrs C some 
breathing space to evaluate her circumstances and apply for a further 3 month payment 
deferral if she felt that was appropriate. However the evidence shows that Mrs C didnt 
engage with Halifax after the call in November 2020 for a number of months, didnt apply for 
a further payment deferral and arrears began to build up.
Halifax continued to send Mrs C communication letting her know she was behind on her 
repayments (11 December 2020, 22 December 2020, 2 February 2021, 13 February 2021). I 
note the tone of these letters was very positive and strongly encouraged Mrs C to make 
contact with Halifax to discuss an agreed way forward.
Overall, I find the support offered by Halifax to be positive, sympathetic and supportive.
The recording of the default 
Given that arrears had continued to build up and there was no communication from Mrs C to 
indicate her intention to resume her repayments or clear the arrears, I dont find it 
unreasonable that Halifax sent a notice of default on 23 February 2021. This gave her until 
13 March 2021 to clear the arrears and made it clear what the consequences would be 
should she fail to do so.
Mrs C was given an additional opportunity to avoid the default scenario on 23 March 2021. 
Halifax wrote to her to ask again that she either clear the arrears or get in touch with them to 
carry out an affordability assessment. 
The call in March 2021
Mrs C did call Halifax on 29 March 2021. There is a difference in both parties recollections of 
this call - so Ive listened to the call recording. This call took place some time ago and I 
accept that memories can fade over time.
Mrs C has told us she advised Halifax that she wanted to pay the arrears and bring her 
account up to date, but Halifax still insisted on completing an affordability assessment. 
Having listened to the call, Mrs C offered to pay £250 - but this wouldnt have cleared the 
arrears. So whilst Ive no doubt it was her intention to ultimately clear the arrears and bring 
the account back into good standing, it wasnt unreasonable of Halifax to request the 
assessment be completed.  
Im satisfied that Halifax have acted within the relevant FCA guidance in response to the 
COVID-19 pandemic in place in March 2021. For conciseness, Ive only added the relevant 
parts below, but the full guidance can be found on the FCA website:
5.20. Firms should only put in place arrangements that are sustainable. A 
sustainable repayment arrangement is one that does not adversely affect the ability 
of the customer to meet their essential living expenses and priority debts. In 
determining what is sustainable, firms should consider the customers circumstances 
and any expected changes in those circumstances and;5.25. If a customer makes a repayment proposal, we would only expect a firm to 
refuse that proposal where it can demonstrate that the customer can afford to make a 
higher repayment that is sustainable based on an objective assessment of income 
and expenditure in accordance with the section on Income and expenditure 
assessments, or where the customer has failed to engage with the firm in a 
reasonable way to enable the firm to make this assessment. [bold added for 
emphasis by Ombudsman] and;
5.32. The purpose of the income and expenditure assessment should be to assess 
the customers level of disposable income in order to enable the firm to assess 
whether a customers proposal is unsustainable, or whether the firms proposed level 
of payments is sustainable.
In my opinion, the adviser used a supportive and sympathetic tone and tried his best to 
explain why an affordability assessment was needed. Throughout this call Mrs C repeated 
that her income couldnt be predicted month to month and she was willing to make a 
payment on that day towards the arrears  but this was over £100 less than the agreed 
contractual repayment. Im also satisfied that the adviser gave correct information to Mrs C.
Mrs C said during the call that shed previously been told by Halifax in November that she 
could make whatever payment she could afford. This was possibly right, but only during the 
30 day freeze period.
The adviser clearly explained that Halifax would possibly be open to the idea of a payment 
plan, but first an affordability assessment must be completed. Mrs C was seemingly (my 
opinion) unwilling to engage fully with the adviser and the call ended without this being fully 
completed. 
Whilst I have sympathy for Mrs C, she entered into a loan agreement with Halifax and had 
an obligation to make her repayments as agreed. Halifax - at their discretion, could allow 
deviations to the agreed repayment terms. But crucially, this had to be agreed with Mrs C 
and supported by evidence that what was being agreed was affordable and sustainable. 
Mrs C chose not to complete what Halifax asked of her and I cant hold Halifax accountable 
for that. 
It wasnt unreasonable that they wouldnt accept Mrs Cs proposal that shed make a 
repayment and possibly the next month - but she couldnt commit to how much she could 
regularly pay. Im also satisfied that during this call the adviser explained that should arrears 
continue to build - even with the payment Mrs C wanted to make, then a default would likely 
be recorded.
I acknowledge that my decision will disappoint Mrs C, but it brings to an end what our 
Service - in trying to informally resolve her dispute with Halifax - can do for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman