DRN-2730118
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Unity Auto Finance Ltd (Unity).
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Unity, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr P. The car here was about 
eight years old and had already completed about 54,897 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect some wear and tear to be evident.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Unity were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
Mr P reported a fault with the Engine Management Light (EML) coming on straight away and 
as a fault was subsequently identified by the business I think its likely that fault was present 
when Mr P took receipt of the car.
Mr P wanted the car repairing and I can see that there were delays before the repair to the 
Engine Management Unit (EMU) were completed in October 2020 five months after the car 
had been supplied. I understand the delays were mainly due to pandemic restrictions that 
were in place at the time.
The relevant legislation says that if a repair to a fault, that was present when the car was 
supplied, fails, the business should allow rejection of the vehicle.
But Im not persuaded the repairs to this car have failed. Thats because the independent 
inspector couldnt find evidence of anything wrong with the EMU or any fault codes related to 
it and he noted that that the EML wasnt illuminating during the inspection. 
The independent inspector did identify a problem with the Purge Control Valve that was 
affecting the air/fuel ratio. But he thought it was likely to be the result of the car standing for 
some time and didnt think it was likely to have anything to do with the previous repair. 
Im persuaded by his professional opinion that the repairs that were carried out by the 
business have most likely been successful and that any fault that is currently present is most 
likely to be the result of reasonable wear and tear on a car of this age and mileage. I dont 
think it would therefore be fair to ask Unity to carry out further repairs or to allow Mr P to 
reject the car.
But Mr P has clearly been inconvenienced by the fault that was present when he collected 
the car and its only right Unity should compensate him for that. Hes had to take the car 
back to the dealership on several occasions and hes had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think some compensation could have been provided earlier. In those 
circumstances I would agree with the investigator that Unity should pay him £250 in 
compensation, and I think, as Mr P hasnt made payments towards his agreement, it would 
be fair if Unity deducted that £250 from the balance of his account.
Ive also considered if Unity should provide any compensation in respect of the lack of use 
Mr P has had from the car. I dont think it would be fair to ask Unity to do that because:
Mr P has managed to cover about 2,000 miles in the car and has therefore had some 
use of it;
Unity suspended payments whilst Mr P was waiting for a repair and I think that was a 
reasonable offer in the circumstances as it prevented Mr P having to pay for a car 
that wasnt working, and also provided some protection to Unity who werent to blame 
for any part of the delay that had been caused by the pandemic restrictions in place 
at the time;
Mr P wasnt paying towards his agreement.
Mr P has explained that he kept the car insured whilst he wasnt able to use it and hed like 
Unity to refund some of those insurance costs. The terms of his finance agreement required 
him to keep the car insured at all times and I think its fair to say that was irrespective of its 
condition. So, I dont agree that Unity should refund any of those costs.
I understand that Unity agreed with Mr P that they would collect the car from him and store it 
pending the result of this investigation. As weve now concluded our investigation, and as 
Ive not ordered the car to be rejected, the agreement is still in place and the car should be 
returned to Mr P, unless both parties come to some other arrangement. 
 My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Unity Auto Finance 
Ltd to reduce the balance on Mr Ps account by £250 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman