DRN-3786402
The complaint
Miss O complains that Starling Bank Limited has registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Miss O says she opened an account with Starling Bank to continue her online selling of 
goods. She says she didnt know that payments into her account were fraudulently obtained.
Starling Bank said it wouldnt be removing the marker. It had received reports that money 
paid into Miss Os account was fraudulent. It believed that she had agreed to make and 
receive the payments. And that a marker was appropriate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Miss O hadnt 
been able to provide receipts or evidence confirming the items she sold or when she 
acquired them. He didnt think shed been able to show that these payments were for 
legitimate items. And so, he thought that the grounds for the CIFAS marker had been met.
Miss O didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she was a 
minor at the time and didnt know the repercussions. She is now at university and is unable 
to access funding or banking. If shed known that this money was fraudulent she wouldnt 
have gone along with it. Miss O said she was desperate and that this had affected her 
mental health. And her ability to run a business online.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Second, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Miss O was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether she has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
I note that Miss O opened her account on 30 March 2021. And on 2 April 2021 payments of 
£500, £450 and £110 were received into her account. She paid amounts of £500 and £110 
out within minutes of them being received to a person she says was a supplier. And was 
unable to do anything further as her account was restricted. Metro Bank received reports 
that payments had been obtained fraudulently. It asked her to explain these at the time and 
then decided to close her account on 9 April 2021 and add the marker. When she 
complained it investigated things again and noted shed told it that she understood the 
payments into the account had been made by friends of the buyers. It believed she was 
acting a money mule and amended the CIFAS marker to reflect this.
Miss O has had the full opportunity to support what she says. The online messages shes 
provided dont give a complete record of how she became involved with the person she says 
was a supplier; actually paid deposits to receive any items and so had the items herself to 
sell; arranged with the buyers for delivery and did so; and how shed make any money. 
Shes said that this was a continuation of selling shed been doing through her mums 
account but theres no evidence of that.  Miss O accepts she knew that the people sending 
the money were different to the names she says were buyers and seemed to accept that 
third parties were sending payments. And I note that all the money that came into her 
account was fraudulent.
Ive taken into account what Miss O says about her age at the time. She doesnt describe 
being placed under any duress here or being especially vulnerable. In my view I think its 
most likely she allowed her newly opened account to be used for receiving fraudulent funds. 
And I think she was a witting participant in this and in moving the money on and reasonably 
knew that this wasnt a legitimate activity
Starling Bank says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Miss O received fraudulent 
funds into her account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on 
the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business 
must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. 
This essentially means that it needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Miss Os account of events and the evidence shes provided, Im satisfied 
that Starling Bank had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to 
this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Miss O received fraudulent funds into her account and didnt report this to Starling 
Bank at the time.
- She authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.- Starling Bank had grounds to believe that Miss O had used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
I appreciate how disappointed Miss O will be by decision given what shes said about the 
impact of the CIFAS marker for her. Our investigator has already offered to discuss ways in 
which Miss O might be able to access support both for financial services and also for the 
personal issues shes described. And that remains open to her following this decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman