DRN-4223027
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with how Santander Consumer (UK) Plc administered a proposed credit 
agreement for a car.
What happened
Mr O applied for car finance with Santander in July 2022 through a dealer. But, there were 
delays with the agreement being processed. Mr O complained to Santander.
In December 2022. Santander issued its final response. It said, in summary, that there were 
delays in the finance being provided as extra checks had to be carried out on the application. 
Santander said its customer service had not met its usual standards and it offered Mr O 
£350 to apologise for the delays and inconvenience. 
Mr O remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service. He said the money 
offered by Santander hadnt been paid. And he said hed lost out as he had to take out 
alternative finance on a higher interest rate as he needed to secure the car.
Santander explained to our service that the finance agreement had never gone live. It initially 
said that it wasnt to blame for the issue, as it said Mr O hadnt provided information to the 
dealer that was requested. Santander later said the delay was in fact caused from its side.
Our investigator issued an opinion and explained she thought the offer Santander had made 
to put things right was fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
Mr O was unhappy with this. He said the issue was that the £350 was never paid to him and 
Santander were not treating him fairly.
As Mr O disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer Santander has made to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr O complains about a prospective consumer credit agreement. Santander have explained 
the finance applied for was a contract purchase/hire purchase agreement. Given Mr O was a 
potential customer of Santanders, and I havent seen anything to suggest the proposed 
agreement wouldnt have been regulated, Im satisfied I can look into Mr Os complaint 
against Santander.
There was some initial confusion about whether Santander were at fault for the delays with 
the application getting processed or not. But, I think on balance its most likely it was. I say 
this due to Santanders most recent explanation, and I also think it would be unlikely to 
uphold the complaint and offer Mr O £350 if it had done nothing wrong.
Im satisfied this delay caused Mr O distress and inconvenience. It must have been upsetting 
to believe the finance was being arranged when it appears things had stalled. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr O said about having to take out finance on a higher 
interest rate. But Ive been provided with no evidence here to show Mr O lost out financially  
such as the costs involved in the agreement Mr O took. And, either way, I havent seen 
enough to make me think Mr O was certain to get the finance from Santander, given it has 
explained the application didnt complete.
Ive then considered the offer Santander has made to put things right. Having done so, I 
think the £350 it offered is fair and reasonable to reflect what happened. I know Mr O is 
unhappy with the delay in this being paid to him. And I can understand his frustration here. 
But I dont think Santander needs to do anything further, other than to ensure it pays Mr O in 
line with its original offer.
My final decision
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc has already made an offer to settle this complaint by paying 
Mr O £350 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision is that this offer is fair and reasonable under the circumstances. So, I 
instruct Santander, if it hasnt already, to pay Mr O £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman