DRN-3569748
The complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited failed to collect and apply contributions to his pension 
plan correctly over a period of time.
What happened
One of our investigators considered Mr Cs complaint. He sent both parties his assessment 
of it in November 2021. The investigator said that ReAssure hadnt provided detailed 
information about exactly what had happened. But it appeared it had been taking several 
months to apply contributions made by Mr C and his employer to Mr Cs pension plan. 
The investigator said ReAssure hadnt provided sufficient evidence to decide if the 
contributions to Mr Cs pension were correctly applied or not. He recommended that 
ReAssure provided Mr C with a detailed report confirming that the contributions had been 
applied to the correct funds and at the correct prices at the relevant times. 
Mr C subsequently transferred his pension to another pension provider because of 
ReAssures poor administration and its failure to address the issues hed raised. The 
investigator said that if ReAssure found that contributions hadnt been applied correctly then 
it should carry out a comparison between the actual values of the funds transferred and what 
their value would have been if the contributions had been correctly applied. And that any 
difference should be paid to Mr C.
 
He also thought that ReAssure should pay Mr C an additional £175 (it had already paid him 
£175), so £350 in total. This was to reflect that Mr C tried multiple times to resolve the matter 
without any reasonable resolution from ReAssure. He thought Mr C was relying on this 
pension to fund the majority of his retirement, and it was important to him to be able to 
effectively manage it. The investigator thought there was a lack of any support to Mr C which 
meant he wasnt able to do this.
Mr C said that although one part of the pensions value transferred appeared to be about 
right, the other, relating to the employers contributions didnt. He said, in summary, that just 
prior to the transfer to the new provider (in September 2020) hed checked this account and 
three contributions still didnt appear to have been credited  totalling just over £485.
ReAssure didnt accept the investigators recommendations. It initially said that the missing 
payments had been correctly credited to Mr Cs account prior to the transfer. However, when 
Mr C had sight of further information ReAssure provided about these three payments, he 
noted that his pension had already been transferred to the new provider when ReAssure 
was saying it had received and credited the contributions. And he wasnt aware these 
contributions had subsequently been sent to the new provider. 
ReAssure subsequently said that Mr C was correct about the three contributions in question. 
It said it would calculate what the transfer value should have been had the contributions 
been applied correctly. It subsequently said that it had calculated the amount transferred 
should have been £25.03 higher, and it would arrange a refund to Mr C.
The investigator asked for sight of the calculations, as he didnt think the £25 calculated was 
likely correct. However no further response was received from ReAssure.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
The investigator asked for more information about the matter on a number of occasions, but 
little detail was provided. ReAssure accepted that there were delays and its clear that Mr C 
was trying to obtain information about the contributions over a period of time but also with 
little success. 
ReAssure has accepted the logic behind what Mr C has said about the three missing 
contributions allegedly credited in September and October 2020 - this being after the funds 
had been transferred. However, like the investigator, I think given the missing contributions 
totalled just over £485, its unlikely that they only made a £25 difference to the transfer value 
assuming they had been credited and at the correct prices at their appropriate dates.
Mr C has said that he is intending on retiring imminently. He has been trying to get the 
matter settled for some time. I think ReAssure has had a reasonable period in which to 
review its calculation. Ive therefore made my decision, and additional interest should be 
added to any loss shown through the calculation as I have set out below.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as close as
possible to the position he would be in now had the contributions in question been credited 
at the correct times and at the relevant prices. 
ReAssure Limited should therefore calculate what the transfer value would have been at the 
date of transfer assuming that the contributions had been applied correctly at the appropriate 
dates and correct prices. If that transfer value is higher than the amount transferred then 
compensation for loss is due to Mr C. Interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum should be 
added to any loss calculated at the date of transfer until the date of settlement. ReAssure 
Limited should provide a copy of its calculation to Mr C in an understandable format.
If compensation for loss is due, it should be paid into Mr Cs new pension and should allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid 
into a pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ReAssure pays the compensation directly to Mr C, it should be paid to him as a lump
sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Cs likely income tax rate in retirement which it should assume to be 20%. So, making a 
notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
ReAssure Limited should also pay Mr C £350 in total (inclusive of the £175 I understand it has already paid) to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr C by the matter and 
over a period of time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I order ReAssure Limited to calculate and pay compensation due to Mr C as I have outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman