DRN-3685766
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service hes received from Leeds Building Society (LBS) over a 
number of years.
What happened
Mr K initially complained to this service in January 2022 about not having had notice his local 
LBS branch would be closed on Christmas Eve, Monday 24 December 2021. Mr K was also 
unhappy with the way he was spoken to and treated in a branch when attempting to make a 
cash withdrawal and discussing his concerns about not being able to access money on 24 
December 2021. Mr K tells us he told LBS of his hidden disability which causes him to speak 
loudly and that LBS said it would record this information on its systems. Mr K told us he felt 
recording and sharing this information was unreasonable.
In a later call with this service Mr K raised further concerns, these included:
an issue of fraud that had been ignored
as a vulnerable adult hed felt bullied and abused by LBS staff for over 10 years
he was struggling to make payments on a loan that hed arranged with LBS
he hadnt been informed who the loan provider was 
LBS staff refused to help with regard to the loan and wouldnt reduce the payments
LBS refused to allow him access to his Mothers savings after shed passed away in 
2009
LBS staff threatened to call the police
Hed told LBS he has difficulty passing security questions
Hed been asked to leave the premises when he visited the LBS head office to 
discuss making reasonable adjustments
In its final response dated 6 January 2022 LBS responded to Mr Ks concerns around the 
Christmas opening hours, his treatment in one of its branches and his request for reasonable 
adjustments. 
Our investigator spoke with Mr K at length in April 2022 to better understand all his complaint 
points. And sought a response from LBS to all the issues Mr K raised with this service about 
LBS.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought LBS had acted reasonably on the 
issues she was able to investigate, and advised why we couldnt consider some of the points 
Mr K had raised.
Mr K remained unhappy and, through a family member, requested an ombudsman decide 
his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has broadened from that which Mr K first brought to our service and which 
LBS addressed in its final responses on 22 December 2021 and 6 January 2022. However, 
Im taking a pragmatic approach and dealing all the issues within my powers and Ive 
attempted to group these into themes and will address them in turn.
I appreciate Mr K has strong feelings on his case and if I dont mention a particular point hes 
made it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it 
necessary to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr K doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Issues outside of our jurisdiction
We dont have a free hand to consider every complaint we receive. Our powers to consider 
complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and in rules 
known as the Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) written by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) in accordance with the powers it derives from FSMA. These form part of the FCA 
handbook.
DISP Rule 2.8.2 sets out that:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication; or
(2) more than:
(a)six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint; unless the 
complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman within that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having 
been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 
R  was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint where 
the time limits  have expired
Mr K has raised issues about being unable to access his mothers savings after she passed 
away in 2009. And has complained that LBS took no action when he advised it of what he 
believed to be an insurance fraud following an incident at his late mothers house when it 
was empty. He says the executors made a claim and their solicitors told them to say the 
property was occupied. Mr K reported this to LBS but they took no action. Our investigator 
said she wouldnt expect LBS to take action, they are not the insurer and were not involved 
in making the claim so have no interest in, or responsibility for the claim. However, I wont be 
considering this aspect of Mr Ks complaint as the activity complained about happened in 
2009, thats clearly more than 6 years before Mr K brought this complaint to us.Mr K is unhappy that during the period 2002 to 2007 he was sometimes asked to give full 
account numbers and other times asked to leave out certain digits, and feels the account 
numbers and sort code numbers were misleading. Again, I wont be considering this aspect 
of Mr Ks complaint as the activity complained about happened over the period 2002 to 
2007, thats clearly more than 6 years before Mr K brought his complaint to us.
He is also unhappy that LBS havent responded to complaints hes raised over many years. I 
can see that LBS has records of 3 complaints. The first was made on 6 February 2015, and 
the others on 16 December 2021 and 30 December 2021. 
In this decision Im considering the issues raised in 2021 and have seen LBS have 
acknowledged these complaints and issued final response letters dated 22 December 2021 
and 6 January 2022. I wont be considering the complaint made in 2015 as this complaint 
was brought to us outside of the 6 month deadline and more than 6 years after the activity 
complained about occurred.
Mr K hasnt provided evidence of any other specific complaints for me to consider.
Ive considered if there were any exceptional circumstances that caused Mr K to be unable 
to bring his complaint to us in time. Whilst Mr K has shared details of his disabilities, and I 
have sympathy for his situation, I do not consider these to be exceptional circumstances that 
prevented him from contacting us. Mr K tells us he regularly communicated with LBS in 
person and by telephone over the period since the issues he tells us of occurred, and Im 
satisfied this demonstrates he was capable of bringing a complaint to this service, which can 
be done by one telephone call. 
In summary Mr K didnt raise these specific complaint points within the time limits and LBS 
hasnt consented to us considering them. And that means I have no power to consider these 
complaint points.
Ill now address the complaint points I can consider.
Christmas opening hours and arrangements
I can see that Mr K was given conflicting information as to when staff at LBS knew the 
opening arrangements for the Christmas period. But importantly Mr K was aware on 16 
December 2021 that LBS would be closed on Christmas Eve. So whilst the closure might be 
inconvenient for Mr K, it wouldnt have been a surprise. And LBS says the branch in question 
displayed the Christmas opening hours from 16 December and this information was also 
shared on its website.
It's not in dispute Mr K was initially advised hed only have access to half his funds, due to 
regular incoming transactions not being processed ahead of the holiday period. LBS has 
shown it agreed to override its normal process to enable Mr K to access all the funds, 
including the pending incoming regular transactions. So Im satisfied LBS has acted 
reasonably here.
Behaviour and bullying
Mr K has complained of numerous instances were he felt hed been spoken to 
inappropriately either in branch or on the telephone, including conversations with managers 
and senior managers at LBS. And at times hed felt threatened and intimidated.
LBS have denied its staff have acted inappropriately and say Mr K has been rude and 
aggressive towards its staff.LBS has explained that the calls from a manager and senior manager were made on mobile 
phones as the staff were working from home due to the pandemic, so arent recorded. So I 
cant comment on these calls. But I do note that senior managers at LBS engaged with Mr K 
which suggests they have taken the issues hes raised seriously. 
LBS have explained there are no CCTV recordings of the branch and head office visits 
during which Mr K says the incidents occurred. Its not unusual for CCTV records to be 
deleted and, importantly, they wouldnt include sound recording so wouldnt help determine 
what was said, or how it was said by either party. So would be unlikely to be persuasive 
evidence. 
What we do have is phone records and Im satisfied Mr K did swear and make threats to 
LBS staff. And find it reasonable for LBS to warn Mr K that such behaviour will not be 
tolerated.
Reasonable Adjustments 
Mr K has said he needs LBS to make reasonable adjustments when he speaks with them, 
and I think that is fair. However, Mr K doesnt want details of his condition to be stored on 
LBSs systems. LBS have explained that entering this information is the best way of enabling 
any member of staff who interacts with Mr K to be aware of the need to make a reasonable 
adjustment. In its final response dated 6 January 2022 LBS have asked if theres another 
way Mr K feels it can support him without recording his personal circumstances, he should 
let it know. I think thats a fair response and I hope both parties can find a solution.
Mr K said hes unhappy that LBS stored his telephone number and used it as part of its 
security questions. LBS has explained it did remove his phone number, and some other 
personal information from its systems at Mr Ks request. But the phone number was added 
at a later date when he was asked for it during a visit to a branch. LBS has apologised and 
paid Mr K £75 compensation. Im satisfied thats fair.
Mr K has also complained of difficulties passing security questions which include needing to 
know how much benefit he receives and when. This can be challenging for Mr K as the 
benefits are on a 28-day cycle, so the dates vary, and he can fail the security questions. I 
can understand why LBS asks for details of regular transactions as part of its security 
procedures to help prevent fraud. LBS has explained if a customer is unable to answer a 
security question it would seek answers to alternative questions to gain assurance it was 
speaking with the account holder. This is in line with standard procedures used by many 
organisations and Im satisfied its fair and reasonable.
Account issues
Mr K has raised issues about not being notified of changes to his account, including 
withdrawing an overdraft facility. And he says there were occasions the branch didnt have 
enough cash to allow him to withdraw all the money he wished to.
Ive seen evidence that changes to account terms and conditions are communicated, and it 
is a commercial decision as to what facilities it offers to its customers. Ive seen no evidence 
Mr K was treated differently to other customers and am satisfied LBS has acted reasonably 
here.
LBS say they have no records of cash not being available, and that it would only restrict a 
withdrawal if there were insufficient funds in an account, or the individual daily limits were 
exceeded. Mr K hasnt provided any information about the dates his cash withdrawals were 
restricted so I cant explore this further with LBS, and am satisfied it has acted reasonably.Loan
Ive seen that the personal loan Mr K complains about isnt an LBS loan. LBS simply 
arranged the loan with another provider, and this is common practice. There is no 
suggestion the loan was provided on different terms to that which Mr K applied for, so I dont 
think LBS has done anything wrong here. If Mr K approaches the loan provider Id expect it 
to treat any request he makes sympathetically and positively.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman