DRN-3440672
The complaint
Ms L, represented by her son Mr C  who is also a named driver on Ms Ls policy  has 
complained about her motor insurer Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited because, 
having settled her claim, along with that of another driver, it decided she had misrepresented 
herself to it when the policy was arranged. So Watford demanded Ms L pay it £25,523.05, 
being its outlay for her and the other drivers claim, including £17,000 of hire car charges for 
the other driver. 
Whilst Mr C has represented his mother, for ease Ill refer to her having made the complaint 
and spoken to us. But sometimes I may refer to Mr C, where appropriate, particularly if 
I need to mention him as the named driver.
What happened
Ms L arranged cover with Watford in late December 2018. She told it she owned the car in 
question and was its registered keeper. The policy only existed for that year, it didnt renew 
in December 2019.
Mr C was driving the car in early December 2019, prior to the policy ending, when he 
collided with the car in front of him on a roundabout. A claim was made to Watford which it 
accepted. It also advised the other drivers insurer that it was accepting liability for the 
incident. In January 2020 Watford paid Ms Ls nominated garage £4,423.56 in full settlement 
of the repair cost for her car. With Ms L paying the garage £1,025 as the policy excess 
amount she was liable for. And in April 2020 Watford settled with the other drivers insurer 
for that car. The other car had been deemed a category S total loss. Which meant it had 
suffered structural damage the insurer had chosen to not repair. Watford paid £5,434 to the 
other insurer being the market value for the vehicle (£8,360), less the cost of its salvage 
(£2,926) which the other insurer would gain from scrapping it. 
But the other driver had incurred hire costs too (for driving another car whilst the claim was 
being considered). And Watford received notification of some passengers allegedly being 
injured in the incident. Watford though didnt think the hire costs claimed were reasonable, or 
that passengers had likely been injured. The injury claims were seemingly later dropped, at 
least Watford didnt pay anything for them. But during its investigation into the injury claims, 
in late July 2020, it spoke to Mr C. Mr C told it that his brother, not Ms L, owned the car and 
was its registered keeper. Watford then asked Ms L to provide it with a copy of the 
registration documents as well as proof of purchase for the car. Ms L provided these and told 
Watford that: 
my Son, he bought the vehicle for me as a gift, however, he has not changed the name 
yet, this is because we all still live in the same household and he has not finished paying off 
the finance, therefore we did not see any point of changing the V5 documents.  
Around this time Watford was seeking, via the courts, to gain further information from the 
other insurer in respect of the hire costs claimed. And in January 2021, with that issue still in 
dispute, Watford wrote to Ms L and told her it was refusing liability for her and the other 
drivers claim. Ms L complained about that and Watford continued challenging the other 
drivers hire costs. 
In March 2021 Watford issued a final response to Ms L on its claim refusal. It said she had 
given it incorrect information when the policy was arranged. And if she had told it her son 
was the registered keeper and owner, not her, it wouldnt have offered her cover. So it felt it 
had acted reasonably to refuse to provide the cover offered by the policy  because she 
should never have had that policy.
In April 2021, in respect of the other drivers hire costs, Watford said all it would pay was 
£5,673. It said there was no justification for more than this to be paid. The other party 
wouldnt accept that but over several months Watford maintained that position  it explained 
this was based on a maximum of 42 days hire having been needed (had delays not been 
caused) and a basic hire rate. It noted that despite the court action taken in respect of 
disclosure of costs, no proof of outlay had been shown, which was why it was offering 
settlement at a basic rate. This position and offer was affirmed in a final communication with 
those acting for the other driver on 29 July 2021. But on 20 August 2021, seemingly 
following a large inter-business agreement Watford had reached with the hire car provider, 
Watford settled the other drivers hire car costs at £17,064. 
Having settled the claims, Watford reviewed its outlay. In September 2021 it wrote to Ms L. It 
said that as noted in its previous letter, it hadnt been able to provide cover for the incident, 
because she had breached the terms of her policy. It said, before off-setting the premium for 
the policy (£1,398.51), it had spent a total of £26,921.56 settling her and the other drivers 
claim. Watford told Ms L it now expected her to reimburse it £25,523.05 (£26,921.05 less the 
£1,398.51 premium). Ms L was unhappy and complained to us.
Ms L told us that when she had arranged the policy she simply had not known she was not 
the registered keeper. And, as she had been given the car as a gift, she believed she was its 
owner. She said she had only discovered otherwise during Watfords investigations, and the 
fact she was the mother of the owner and keeper surely couldnt make any difference to 
Watford. She felt Watfords refusal had come very late in the day given it had settled the 
damage claims in 2020, and she wasnt persuaded that the costs it had settled at were fair  
particularly the £17,000 for hire costs.
Our investigator took the view that Ms L had likely given Watford incorrect information when 
the policy had been arranged. So she didnt think Watford had done anything wrong. 
Ms L said she had never deliberately misled Watford. And that she didnt think her concerns 
about the sum Watford was asking her to pay it had been addressed. Her complaint was 
passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt that the complaint should be upheld in part  that whilst Watford had mostly acted 
reasonably, the amount it was asking Ms L to repay was unfair. So I issued a provisional 
decision, the findings of which were:
misrepresentation and the claim
Ive considered what Ms L has told us, but also what she told Watford as quoted above. Im 
minded to think that what she told Watford provides the most likely summary of what Ms L 
knew. And I dont think, from the way her comment to Watford was phrased, that she had 
only just become aware that her son was still the owner/registered keeper. I think if this had 
all just come to her attention shed have said so at that first point of questioning by Watford, 
rather than saying we didnt see any point in changing the V5 documents. And I think its 
reasonable to conclude that if, as I think she did, Ms L saw no need to change them, she likely felt no need to say to Watford, when arranging the cover, that she wasnt the owner 
and registered keeper. 
I say that by tracking Ms Ls own logic  shed been given a gift, and they all lived in the 
same house and it was a car that only she and her other son used. So Ms L clearly felt like 
the cars owner. And I think the registered keeper detail, for her, was just an unimportant 
technicality. I dont think Ms L had any intent to mislead Watford  but she made a mistake in 
not telling it her son was the owner and registered keeper. He was still the owner because 
he was still paying the finance on the car and, therefore, couldnt pass ownership of it to her. 
And he was the registered keeper of it because that was what was recorded on the V5. If 
Ms L had told Watford that, it wouldnt have offered her cover, and it wouldnt have been in 
the position of having to handle the claims made to it when Mr C had the accident whilst 
driving the car. If Ms Ls policy with Watford had still been active when it found out about the 
misrepresentation it would likely have avoided Ms Ls policy, treated it as though it had never 
existed. And, from what Ive seen, Id likely have found it fair and reasonable for it to have 
done so.
There is legislation which sets out the rights and obligations of both parties when arranging 
cover. And the prospective policyholder must take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
themselves to the insurer. If they do, and the insurer wouldnt have offered cover but for the 
misrepresented information, the insurer can treat the policy as though it hadnt existed. This 
is called avoidance. And one of the consequences of the avoidance is that the insurers 
liability for the claim falls away  because the cover was, to all intents and purposes, never 
in place. 
I know Ms L cant see why her son being the owner and registered keeper would make a 
difference to Watford. But I have seen Watfords criteria against which it assesses policy 
applications. And Im satisfied that if Ms L had said the car belonged to her son, and/or that 
he was its registered keeper, Watford wouldnt have offered Ms L cover. Here, Watford 
hasnt chosen to avoid the policy, likely I think because it had already lapsed (although this 
wouldnt have prevented it from taking that action). The fact Watford hasnt avoided the 
policy is to Ms Ls advantage, as having an avoidance on your record will make getting cover 
more difficult. However, it also, strictly speaking, means that Ms L was covered by Watfords 
policy at the time of the accident. In the circumstances though, I cant say it would be a fair 
outcome for Watford to have to honour the claim. Because its policy was only in place for 
Ms L to potentially benefit from because of her mistake when arranging it. So I dont intend 
to make Watford review its claim decision.
timing
I know Ms L thinks that Watford also shouldnt be allowed to decline the claim because it 
took too long to realise it should never have offered cover to her. I agree with Ms L that 
Watfords decision did come late. But I dont think that was because of any fault or delay by it 
 I dont think it should reasonably have found out about this earlier. 
When a policy is arranged, because of the legislation mentioned above, an insurer is entitled 
to accept that the information given in the application is correct. And until the ownership and 
keeper issue came to light during the interview with Mr C, Watford hadnt been given any 
cause to suspect Ms L might have misrepresented things. Once it found out, I think it acted 
responsibly, including in a timely manner to consider the situation and make a decision. Im 
not minded to make Watford review its claims position based on when the misrepresentation 
was discovered.  
costsOn this, I think Watford acted unfairly and unreasonably. And I dont intend to allow Watford 
to continue chasing Ms L for reimbursement based on its entire outlay. I say that as I dont 
think the entire £26,921.56 was reasonably incurred. Ill explain below and if my final 
decision remains the same and Ms L accepts it, Watford will only be able to ask Ms L to pay 
it £14,132.05. 
Watford incurred costs totalling £9,857.56 for car repairs; Ms Ls and the other drivers. Ive 
no issue with those costs. The portion for Ms Ls car was based on an estimate from her 
garage and an engineer assessed the other car determining it was a total loss. The 
settlement for that car was based on its market value less its salvage cost. I dont think there 
was anything for Watford to reasonably challenge about that. So I think it can fairly ask Ms L 
to pay this sum back to it  after all it would never have paid these sums out if Ms L had 
given it the correct information when the policy was applied for.
The remaining £17,064 of Watfords outlay was for hire costs. But I dont think that Watford 
settling for that sum was fair or reasonable. Watford had spent many months challenging this 
part of the other drivers claim. It had even taken court action to try and force the other party 
to disclose cost details. Several times, starting in the spring of 2021, Watford very clearly 
told the other party that the most it would pay for hire costs was £5,673. It set out reasoning 
for that sum, explaining there was no justification  it could see  for more than this to be 
paid. I cant see any fair way Watford can come back from that and reasonably require Ms L 
to cover the sum of £17,064 it belatedly chose to pay the hire company. So I think it 
unreasonably incurred costs of £11,391 in this respect  £5,673 plus £11,391 totalling 
£17,064. As such, the only sum I think it can fairly and reasonably ask Ms L to reimburse it, 
for the other partys hire costs is £5,673. 
The figure of £5,673, Watford has explained, is based on a basic hire rate for 42 days, not at 
the higher rate for the 84 days claimed for. I think thats reasonable. Which is why Im 
prepared to say, in light of the misrepresentation made by Ms L, that Watford is entitled to 
ask her to reimburse it.
So the car repair cost of £9,857.56, plus the hire cost of £5,673 gives a total of £15,530.56 
as Watfords reasonably incurred outlay for this incident. And theres Ms Ls premium of 
£1,398.51 to take into account. Deducting that gives a sum of £14,132.05. This is all I think 
Watford can fairly and reasonably ask Ms L to reimburse. 
That effectively results in me intending to require Watford to write-off £11,391 of the debt it 
has, to date, been asking Ms L to pay. It should amend its records straightaway to reflect the 
correct sum Im satisfied it can fairly and reasonably ask Ms L to pay  £14,132.05. It should 
confirm to her in writing that this is all she owes.
Watford said it would accept my decision. Ms L asked that my findings were reviewed. To 
that end she said:
The other drivers claim was dubious in a number of ways.
The other car shouldnt have been declared a total loss  her car had more damage but 
was ok. Photos taken at the scene show no structural damage to the other car, which 
was driven away.
The claim shouldnt have taken 42 days  she wants to see receipts and the like for the 
hire costs. 
I should demand further evidence in these respects as the total value put forward of 
£14,132.05, without sufficient evidence in support of the values that make up that sum, is 
still unfair.Regarding my quote of what she had said to Watford  this was said in response to its 
request for the registered keeper documents, in order to explain their content whilst 
avoiding needing to change them first, which might cause a delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms L has concerns about the other drivers claim. And to some extent so 
did Watford. As I explained provisionally it challenged certain aspects of the claim  the 
injury to passengers and the total claimed for hire costs. Even going to the extent of taking 
court proceedings against the other insurer to try and verify the costs put forward. So I dont 
think I can conclude that Watford has just accepted the claim without properly considering it. 
It is sometimes the case that a car can seem perfectly fine after an accident. And can even 
be driven. But when a garage or engineer looks at it, further damage can be seen. And 
I have to bear in mind that an engineer is an expert in assessing damage, Ms L and Mr C 
(who was present at the accident) are not. And the other insurer did have an engineer 
assess the car before deciding to write that off as a total loss and settle the other drivers 
claim. Watford, as Mr C had been at fault for the accident, had to decide whether to settle or 
challenge that position. I remain of the view that, with an engineers report showing the 
damage and repair costs and its consequent total loss status, it would be very difficult for 
Watford to successfully challenge the other insurer on the conclusions they reached.   
Watford felt a hire period of 42 days was fair, rather than the original 84 days the other 
drivers insurers claimed. I did look at that when I made my provisional decision. The incident 
occurred on the 2 December 2019, with hire starting on 4 December 2019. And following 
some details being received by the other insurer in February 2020, whilst the other drivers 
claim was still on-going and unsettled, Watford felt the claim had been unreasonably 
delayed. It was on this basis that it felt the 84 days worth of car hire charges which were 
later claimed for, were unreasonable. It felt 42 days was a fair period for the claim to have 
been resolved and a hire car to have been needed. I consider a loss like this can take a few 
weeks for an insurer to progress, and I bear in mind that losses which occur during holiday 
periods can progress more slowly. All things considered Im not persuaded the other claim 
could or should reasonably have been settled before Christmas 2019. So Watfords 
assessment of 42 days  taking the claim resolution and hire period to 14 January 2020  is, 
in my view, reasonable and therefore fair. 
I can assure Ms L that I have seen sufficient evidence to satisfy me that Watford acted fairly 
and reasonably in settling for the total loss of the other car and for saying 42 days was a fair 
and reasonable period for hire. So Im not going to ask for further evidence. With regret for 
any disappointment this causes Ms L, Ive seen enough and whilst Ive taken her response 
on board it hasnt changed my mind on these aspects of her complaint. 
Ive also considered what Ms L has said about her response to Watfords enquires (quoted 
by me provisionally). Im not persuaded by that explanation. I think if Ms L had just found out 
that her son was the registered keep and she was explaining to Watford why the documents 
she was sending it were in his name  shed have said just that. For example, Ive just 
realised theyre in my sons name  Ill send them as they are, but they need changing. 
Maybe that is what Ms L meant to say, or maybe she thought that was conveyed by what 
she said. But I have to make a decision about what I think is most likely the case. And I think 
its most likely that Ms L did know she was not officially the owner and/or registered keeper 
of the car, but in her and her familys eyes, to all intents and purposes, she was. And she 
thought that was enough to tell Watford the same when the policy was arranged. I think she made a mistake and, unfortunately, in the circumstances that has left her and Watford in a 
position where it has paid money out where, but for her mistake, it otherwise wouldnt have 
done so. 
I remain of the view as stated provisionally  it is fair and reasonable for Watford to ask Ms L 
to repay its fair and reasonable outlay for her and the other drivers claim. And I also remain 
of the view that the fair and reasonable sum it can ask her to pay is £14,132.05. As such, my 
provisional findings, along with my comments here, now form the findings of this, my final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Watford to write-off part of the debt it has been chasing Ms L for  amending its 
own records to show, and confirming to Ms L in writing, that she only owes it £14,132.05.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman