DRN-2209692
Complaint
Mr D has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) irresponsibly 
provided him with unaffordable guarantor loans. 
  
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr D with two guarantor loans. Loan 1 was for £4,000.00 and 
provided in June 2017. This loan had an APR of 49.9% and a 42-month term. This all meant 
the total amount repayable of £7,601.74 was due to be repaid in a first instalment of £174.67 
followed by 41 monthly instalments of around £181. This loan was settled in full with some of 
the proceeds from loan 2.
Loan 2 was for £5,000.00 and provided in November 2017. This loan had an APR of 49.9% 
and a 48-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £10,343.51 was due to 
be repaid in a first instalment of £290.22 followed by 47 monthly instalments of around £214.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ds complaint. He told Buddy Loans that the checks 
it carried out before providing Mr D with these loans werent reasonable and proportionate 
and if such checks had been carried out it would have seen that Mr D wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. So he thought that Buddy Loans shouldnt have provided 
Mr D with these loans and upheld the complaint. 
Buddy Loans didnt accept our investigators assessment. So the complaint was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr D would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make fair lending decisions?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations in place when Buddy Loans lent to Mr D required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay his loans in a 
sustainable manner. Buddy Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused 
assessment in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr D. In 
practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loans 
wouldnt cause Mr D undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr D. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr D, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?Buddy Loans has suggested that it completed income and expenditure assessments with   
Mr D. It says Mr Ds monthly income, at the time of loan 1 was recorded as £2,824.00, which 
was verified by a payslip. Mr Ds income at the time of loan 2 was recorded as £3,800.00, 
which was cross-checked electronically. And Mr D stated he had monthly expenditure of 
£1,924.14 for loan 1 and £2,987.88 for loan 2. These checks left it concluding Mr D had a 
monthly disposable income of £899.86 at the time of loan 1 and £812.12 at the time of loan 
2, which meant he was comfortably able to make the repayments to these loans.
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
Im concerned that Buddy Loans checks highlighted that Mr D had eight defaulted accounts 
at the time of these applications. And at the time of loan 2 Mr Ds existing indebtedness had 
significantly increased, despite the loan purpose for loan 1 supposedly being debt 
consolidation and his income supposedly increasing by nearly £1,000.00 a month.  
Furthermore, while Buddy Loans refers to Mr Ds income having been verified electronically 
for loan 2, theres no indication what this verification entailed. Im also particularly 
concerned that Buddy Loans appeared to ignore that the credit file information it obtained 
suggested 16 credit searches had been carried out on Mr D in the previous 12 months prior 
to loan 1 and this rose to 32 credit searches having been carried out in the 12 months 
leading up to loan 2, 12 of which had been in the period between loans 1 and 2. 
This was indicative of Mr D having made a significant number of applications for credit in the 
lead up to these loans. Bearing all of this in mind, I think that Buddy Loans ought to have 
taken steps to verify Mr Ds monthly income and expenditure, given the declared monthly 
disposable income wasnt reflected in the rest of the information Buddy Loans had. 
In my view, there was a clear mismatch between what was shown on Mr Ds credit file and 
his declared (or adjusted) disposable income and this suggested further verification was 
needed. Bearing in mind the cost of the credit, loan 2 being taken within months after loan 1 
(and Buddy Loans saw Mr D had topped up another guarantor loan with a different provider 
in this time), what Buddy Loans saw or ought to have seen in the information gathered and 
the potential implications for the guarantor, Buddy Loans needed to get a thorough 
understanding of Mr Ds financial position in order to properly assess whether hed be able to 
sustainably make the loan payments he was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr D about the details of her income and expenditure and carrying out 
credit checks, I think that Buddy Loans needed to verify what Mr D said. It could have done 
this by asking for information such as payslips, bank statements or copies of bills. And when 
it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure that Mr D did have 
enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Buddy Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr D to provide documentary evidence to support the income and expenditure 
declarations made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Mr D with his loans.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr D would 
have been unable to sustainably repay these loans?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before these loans were 
provided, I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely than not that proportionate checks would have told Buddy Loans that Mr D 
wouldve been unable to sustainably repay these loans. 
Mr D has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr D has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ds financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr D could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in 
any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from 
the guarantor. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr D has provided in light of all of this. 
The information provided shows that Mr D was gambling significantly in excess of his income 
each month. He was borrowing from payday lenders and other high-cost credit providers in 
order to supplement the amount he gambled. In my view, the information provided 
demonstrates that Mr D was in no position to have been able to sustainably repay either of 
these loans.
Bearing this in mind, Im satisfied reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have demonstrated that Mr D would not have been able to make the repayments to 
these loans. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr D in some other 
way.  
Did Mr D lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with 
his guarantor loans?
I think that these loans had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Ds indebtedness. These 
loans werent cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and he ended up 
paying interest and charges on loans that he shouldnt have been given in the first place. So I find that Mr D lost out because Buddy Loans unfairly provided him with these loans.  
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans should do to put things right in this case. 
Having done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Ds 
complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr D paid on his loans 1 and 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on the refunded interest, fees and charges    
Mr D paid from the date they were made to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information added to Mr Ds credit file as a result of these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Advancis Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman