DRN-2841963
The complaint
Mr S complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a claim he made 
on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was on a long-stay holiday abroad. He was due to return to the UK in June 2020. 
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, his airline cancelled his flight and didnt offer 
him a replacement. Mr S was able to arrange a flight with a new airline a couple of days 
later, but he incurred substantial new flight costs and other expenses associated with 
extending his stay. So he made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
URV turned down Mr S claim. It said the circumstances simply werent covered by any 
section of his policy.
Mr S was unhappy with URVs decision, as hed been left significantly out of pocket. He said 
the original airline had refunded a fraction of his costs, but his financial losses had been far 
higher. He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. While she sympathised with 
his position, she didnt think any section of Mr S policy covered the circumstances of his 
claim. 
Mr S disagreed. He didnt consider either URV or the investigator had spent sufficient time 
looking at the parameters of the situation, or that the investigator had looked into either the 
airline or URVs failure to help him in any way. He thought that part of the policy wording did 
suggest his claim had some validity. He felt that the scheduled airline failure section of the 
policy applied to his situation, as his airline had stopped operating and he was at a financial 
loss. He hoped his complaint would highlight the need to offer some protection to consumers 
and the need not to dismiss claims without fairness, or where the policy wording is 
ambiguous. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think it was fair for URV to turn down 
his claim. Ill explain why.
First, its important I point out that we have no power to look into the actions of Mr S airline. 
Thats because our role is to consider individual complaints about a regulated financial 
business carrying out a regulated activity, where a consumer feels that the business has 
made an error which has caused them to lose out. If Mr S feels his original airline let him 
down, or that it didnt fairly calculate any refund due to him, its open to him to complain to 
the Civil Aviation Authority about its actions. Id also add that we dont have a consumer 
protection function  thats the role of the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr S policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether URV handled the 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of Mr S contract with URV. Its 
clear that Mr S trip was effectively extended when his original airline cancelled his flight, so 
theres no cover under the cancellation or curtailment sections of the policy. On this basis, I 
think it was appropriate for URV to look at whether the claim fell within the If your travel 
plans are disrupted section of the policy. This says:
We will pay
up to £1,250 for your proportion of prepaid
i. transport charges;
ii. accommodation;
iii. foreign car hire; and
iv. excursions
which were booked before you started your trip, that you cannot recover from any other 
source, resulting in financial loss.
If after 24 hours of delay at the international departure point of your outbound journey 
from the United Kingdom, Channel Islands or BFPO you abandon the trip. (Bold is my 
emphasis.)
While Mr S return was effectively delayed by more than 24 hours, its clear that this section 
of the policy only applies to delays which occur at a policyholders international outbound 
departure point. As Mr S was delayed at the international inbound departure point, he isnt 
covered by these policy terms. And Ive borne in mind that this section of the policy only 
covers pre-paid charges, so it wouldnt cover the costs of Mr S new flights or additional 
accommodation costs. His original airline would be responsible for refunding the costs of the 
flight it cancelled under EU legislation. So I think it was fair for URV to conclude that Mr S 
claim wasnt covered by this section of the policy.
Ive then turned to consider the scheduled airline failure disruption extension cover provided 
by the policy. This states:
We will pay for
Scheduled airline failure (after your departure from the UK)
The extra cost of a one-way fare (of standard no greater than the class of journey that was 
originally booked) to allow you to complete the return journey of your trip to your home 
country as a result of the insolvency or financial failure of the scheduled airline on 
which you are booked to travel and you not being offered from any other source any 
reasonable alternative transport or refund of charges you have already paid. (Bold is my 
emphasis).
I appreciate that Mr S airline cancelled his flight and that as such, the flight didnt operate as 
had been originally intended. But I think its very clear that this section of the policy only applies where the airline has become insolvent or failed financially. In this case, Mr S 
original airline was neither insolvent nor in financial failure. Instead, it cancelled the flight due 
to Covid-19 restrictions. So I dont think I could fairly find that URV should pay Mr S claim 
under this section of the policy.
Mr S has clearly incurred significant expenses, for reasons outside of his control, and I do 
sympathise with his position. But Ive looked closely at the terms of his contract and the 
circumstances of his claim simply arent events URV has chosen to cover. So I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to direct URV to settle this claim in the circumstances of 
this case. This means that overall, Im satisfied it was fair for URV to turn down Mr S claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman