DRN-1525082
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services Ltd is pursuing him for a debt that he 
doesnt believe hes liable for. 
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with a lender I will refer to as W. In early 2019, W went into 
administration and the administrators sold Mr Cs debt to Lantern. 
Mr C complained to Lantern. He didnt think that he should have to repay the debt, because 
he believed the lender had acted irresponsibly when it gave him the loan.
Lantern didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said it would refer his complaint to Ws 
administrators because Mr Cs concerns related to the actions of W, rather than Lantern. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said that W owed him money for another loan, 
but Lantern had refused to discuss this. He also believed that the loan Lantern was pursuing 
him for was mis-sold. W had written off a separate loan which was for a smaller amount but 
the same principles should apply. He wanted Lantern to reassess the mis-selling of the loan 
and take responsibility for this, deduct the amount W had already said was mis-sold from the 
balance and provide compensation for poor service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She said Lantern wasnt responsible for the sale of the loan. A complaint about the sale of 
the original credit should normally be made to the business responsible for the sale. As W 
had gone into administration, any complaints needed to be made to the administrators. She 
thought it was clear that Lantern had passed on Mr Cs complaint to the administrators. And 
Mr C had been given information on how to proceed with his claim against the 
administrators.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. So, his complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr C feels that Lantern shouldnt be pursuing him for the debt because the money was lent 
to him irresponsibly. 
 
Lantern says that it purchased the debt from Ws administrators in May 2019. It was told that 
a redress programme was being undertaken by the administrators and the account it had 
purchased wasnt affected by this. It doesnt believe its responsible for any of the concerns 
Mr C raised and has told Mr C he needed to take this up with the administrators. Mr C has sent us a copy of an email hed received from Ws administrators which confirms 
that his debt was sold to Lantern. It also says that prior to the administrators appointment W 
identified a number of customers who may be entitled to redress relating to (Ws) historic 
affordability, creditworthiness and responsible lending practices. As part of this process, you 
have not been identified as a customer who is potentially entitled to a redress claim from 
(W). However, if you nonetheless believe that you have a claim in the administration you 
may provide further details of your claim by completing the claim form for use by redress 
creditors found at. This is followed by a link to the administrators website.
I appreciate that Mr C believes he shouldnt have been given the loan. But I cant say that 
Lantern is responsible for this as the lending decision was made by W. I think its clear from 
the information above that any claim relating to this needed to be made to Ws 
administrators. 
Mr C hasnt disputed taking out the loan and since the debt had been sold to Lantern, I think 
it was fair for it to pursue Mr C for the debt. 
Mr C also believes the loan should be written off because W had agreed to writing off 
another loan hed taken out with it. And he says Lantern should reduce the amount its 
pursuing him for, because W owes him money. 
But these concerns also relate to Ws actions as the lender and took place before Lantern 
bought the debt. So, these points dont make a difference to my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman