DRN-4375003
The complaint
Mr W complains National Westminster Bank Plc didnt treat him fairly when he asked to
make a change to a personal loan.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W had a personal loan (loan 1) with NatWest with an outstanding balance of 
about £8,000. He found he needed more money, so he took out a consolidation loan 
(loan 2). This repaid and closed loan 1, and left Mr W with about £7,500 cash in his 
current account. Im satisfied the application process for loan 2 made it clear this 
would happen.
Within a matter of days, Mr W changed his mind. He called NatWest to say he didnt 
need the extra cash, so he wanted to repay and close loan 2 (by giving back the 
extra cash) and reopen loan 1 (to repay the original borrowing). This wasnt an option 
as loan 1 couldnt be re-opened and cancelling loan 2 would require it to be repaid in 
full.
So, Mr W could either repay loan 2 in full or leave it running. If he decided to leave it 
running, he could, however, have used the extra cash he didnt need to make a 
partial settlement. This could have reduced the term, or the monthly repayments. 
Either option wouldve likely reduced the interest Mr W would be charged across the 
term of loan 2.
NatWest didnt explain Mr Ws options. It initially gave him the impression it would 
take back the extra cash and re-open loan 1. Later, it indicated something else would 
happen. And finally, when it issued its final response letter, NatWest said Mr Ws only 
option was to repay loan 2 in full. I dont find NatWest treated Mr W fairly and 
reasonably.
Ive thought about what would have happened had NatWest been clear with Mr W 
about his options. I find its most likely he would have used the extra cash to make a 
partial settlement on loan 2, and he would have chosen to reduce the monthly 
repayments. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr W was clear he didnt need the extra cash, and his statements show 
the money remained available to him (and therefore available to make a 
partial settlement) while his discussions with NatWest were ongoing, and 
afterwards;
Mr W did make a partial settlement early into the loan, for a lower amount. 
I see no compelling reason to think he wouldnt have paid a larger amount 
had he understood the implications to interest charges and repayment 
amounts; and
Mr W has been clear that avoiding paying interest unnecessarily was 
important to him. Hes also said his current financial circumstances mean 
he wants to keep his monthly repayments to a minimum.
Putting things right
NatWest should withdraw the extra cash from Mr Ws current account and pay it to 
loan 2 as if it had been used to make a partial settlement on 15 January 2023 - a 
date within the 30-day cooling off period of loan 2, which also provides for a 
reasonable time for NatWest to have explained to Mr W his options and for him make 
his decision.
With the above accomplished, NatWest should rework loan 2 based on the lower 
balance and reduced monthly repayments. NatWest should refund to Mr W any credit 
leftover. NatWest should also confirm to Mr W, in writing, the new loan balance, term 
and repayment requirements.
Mr W has explained the distress and inconvenience this matter caused him, such as 
the numerous phone calls, the conflicting information, and his uncertainty over what 
would happen with his loan(s). And he says this was compounded as it was 
predominantly over the Christmas period. Compensation is appropriate and I find 
£200 fairly reflects the impact. This figure includes the compensation of £100 that 
has already been paid.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. NatWest wasnt persuaded Mr W would have made 
a partial settlement to the value of the extra cash, had things been made clear to him. It also 
suggested Mr W may not still have the extra cash available and pointed out Mr W hasnt 
made a contractual repayment to date. In other words, it wasnt sure my intended redress 
would work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Investigator asked Mr W if he still had the extra cash available to him. He said he didnt. 
I have, therefore, reconsidered matters. Having done so, I remain of the opinion NatWest let 
Mr W down for the reasons I set out in my provisional and I think they need to put this right. I 
have amended my intended redress in light of Mr Ws circumstances. Our investigator has 
discussed this with both NatWest and Mr W, both of which have said they agree to the new 
redress, which Ive outlined below.
NatWest should use the lump sum Mr W paid at the start of the loan (approximately 
£5,000) to cover the monthly contractual payments to date. This should leave the 
account in a position where it is up to date and his credit file in order;
The money left over from the above should be used to reduce the outstanding loan 
balance. Any interest arrears should also be refunded to the loan to reduce the 
outstanding loan balance. Mr W has the option to either reduce his monthly 
payments or reduce the term of the loan. Mr W has said he would like to reduce the 
monthly payments;
Once the above action has been taken and the account is up to date, NatWest should let Mr W know what his repayments are and when they are due; and
NatWest should pay compensation of £200 (which includes the compensation of 
£100 already paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should put 
things right as Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman