DRN-4260278
The complaint
N, a company, complains about a commercial legal protection insurance policy sold to it by 
Peninsula Business Services Ltd (Peninsula), alongside a service agreement.
N says the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
N was engaged in a dispute with a former employee which was being pursued through the 
Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service (ACAS). 
As N didnt have a Human Resources department able to deal with a claim like this, it got in 
touch with Peninsula for help to protect its position.
Peninsula sold N a service agreement together with commercial legal protection insurance. 
The subject of this complaint is the sale of the commercial legal protection insurance policy. 
N says that Peninsula led it to believe the policy it was taking out would cover any awards 
made against it at Employment Tribunal in the current claim brought by its former employee, 
whilst Peninsula says it made clear what the policy would cover and this situation wasnt one 
that would be capable of that.
Our investigator considered Ns complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She thought 
that the policy had been missold and that Peninsula needed to return the policy premium to 
N together with interest at 8% per year simple. Neither party agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am upholding Ns complaint for broadly the same reasons reached by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
As I understand it the policy was sold in person on a non-advised basis. That means that 
Peninsula needed to give N enough information to allow it to decide whether to take the 
cover out, but it didnt need to ensure it was suitable for its needs and circumstances- that 
was a decision N needed to make for itself.
Ive thought about what both parties have said and the evidence in this case. Its Peninsulas 
position that the information N was given about the policy was clear and that at no time was 
any information given that suggested Tribunal awards would be covered for matters 
predating the policy. Peninsula relies on the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) 
which sets out that matters outside the period of insurance arent covered. They also say N 
signed a declaration confirming they had read the important information of the contract and 
the IPID as well as had the opportunity to ask questions about and check its understanding 
of the policy. 
In addition, Peninsula has produced witness statements from two of its representatives who 
were present at the meeting. Those statements essentially say that at no time did they 
advise that Tribunal awards would be covered by the insurance sold alongside the service 
agreement. One of those statements talks about the representative giving an analogy of car 
insurance not covering a policyholder for an accident which had taken place before entering 
into the insurance, but that it would cover future claims.  
N says that Peninsulas representatives led it to believe that any Tribunal award would be 
covered by the insurance purchased alongside the service agreement. And because it 
wanted to be satisfied this was correct it emailed the representative after the meeting to 
confirm the matter. The email exchange reads as follows:
Can I check if the insurance for the tribunal award covers the current case we discussed 
yesterday?
Peninsula then responded to another point on the same email, so N sent a further email 
chasing for a response. It said:
Can you shed light on my other question highlighted in my original email for clarity?
The response from the Peninsula representative said:
Apologies- yes it does it covers you for any early conciliation we may need to complete via 
ACAS and also for any future tribunal cost (legal bundle, opening and closing statement, 
defence etc).
Having considered the complaint and supporting documents in their entirety, I have no doubt 
that the representative for Peninsula was intending to set out what the service agreement 
covered. But the answer he gave led N to believe that Tribunal awards were covered by the 
insurance, which is the question N specifically asked. 
I appreciate the evidence Peninsula has provided and I accept that it is possible information 
was given that suggested the insurance wouldnt engage in relation to the specific dispute N 
was seeking assistance with, but I also find that unlikely. I say so because N engaged 
Peninsula for specific help in relation to the dispute that it was engaged in at the time. So, I 
dont think N would have been interested in insurance cover that wouldnt assist it with this if 
the dispute wasnt going to be covered by it. This is further corroborated by N seeking written 
confirmation on the position regarding the extent of cover. N refers to the insurance as being 
for the tribunal award which suggests to me that it thought that was the purpose of the 
cover.
Even if Im wrong and Peninsula did tell N the policy wouldnt engage for this particular 
dispute, I think the misinformation it gave it in the email exchange that followed was enough 
to mislead N into thinking an award would be covered by the insurance. Whether that was 
Peninsulas intention is not relevant. Thats because I think that N relied on what Peninsula 
said when deciding whether to take out the cover.
In order to determine that Peninsula did something wrong, I also have to be satisfied that N 
would have done something differently if Peninsula had not led it to believe the insurance 
would cover it in the circumstances of the dispute it was engaged in. In this case and given 
the specific help N was looking for related to this claim, Im persuaded that it would have. 
Ive given thought to what this action might have been and I havent seen anything 
persuasive that supports N would have been able to source an alternative policy at a similar 
price elsewhere that covered it for such awards. The policy N bought was for matters that werent known to it when the insurance was purchased so it was priced accordingly. N hasnt 
provided anything that supports that it would have been able to find and source an 
alternative policy elsewhere, even at a considerably higher cost that covered these awards. 
In the absence of that, I think N would have simply decided not to take out the insurance. 
I accept that N might also have decided not to take out the service agreement Penisula sold 
it, but Im not considering that in this complaint. As such I think Peninsula should put things 
right in the way Ive set out below.
Putting things right
Peninsula should return the policy premium N paid together with interest at 8% per year 
simple from the time it was paid, until its reimbursed.
I note that Peninsula object to the payment of interest on the policy premium on the basis 
that it places N in an advantageous position. I dont agree. Had Peninsula not provided 
misleading information then I dont think N would have taken out the policy. As such it 
follows that N is entitled to interest on money it would have had at its disposal for other uses.
N have also asked for a different settlement to be made to deter Peninsula from future 
misselling. N should note that I cant punish Peninsula for the action it took or make awards 
that act as deterrents- thats a matter for the regulator.  I can only direct it to put things right 
on the facts of this specific complaint and thats what Ive done here.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ns complaint against Peninsula Business Services 
Ltd and direct it to put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman