DRN-3709030
The complaint
Mr B says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) gave him a line of credit he couldnt afford to 
repay.  
What happened
Mr B approached Drafty for a running credit facility in October 2016. Mr B was initially given 
a facility with a £1,200 credit limit. In March 2018 Mr Bs credit limit was increased to £1,350 
and in around October 2018 it was further increased to £1,500.
Mr B has had some problems with repaying his facility and based on the statement of 
account provided by Drafty, an outstanding balance remains due (more detail about that is 
below) and he has been on various repayment plans since June 2019. 
Mr B was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also 
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed.  To be 
clear, Mr B was not given a payday loan. 
In Draftys first final response letter which was sent in March 2022, it explained the 
information it gathered from Mr B before it approved the facility which included asking for 
details of his income and expenditure. It concluded, given the estimated monthly repayment, 
Mr B was likely to be able to afford his credit facility. 
However, Drafty conceded that allowing Mr B to continue to use the facility after 
21 November 2018 may not have been sustainable in the long run. It made an offer to put 
things right for him, which included refunding any interest fees and charges on any new 
drawdowns after this date. This led to a total refund of £5.99 which would be used to offset 
Mr Bs balance, bringing his new outstanding balance to £1,553.83.
Mr B didnt accept this offer and instead referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Bs complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before initially granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr B was likely 
to be able to afford the payment amount based on the hypothetical payment schedule in 
Mr Bs credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have initially approved the 
facility.
The adjudicator pointed out that Drafty also had an obligation to monitor the ongoing use of 
the facility. She though the credit limit increase which occurred around October 2018 
shouldnt have been granted. In her view, had Drafty carried out what she considered to be 
proportionate checks it wouldve likely discovered Mr B wasnt working and was receiving 
benefits. Which meant he couldnt afford the credit limit increase or to continue to service the 
facility. 
However, the adjudicator, said that as Mr B hadnt worked for a number of years, and there 
was little prospect in Mr B being able to repay what is owed, than Drafty should write off any 
remaining balance. 
In order to put things right, in summary she said:
All interest, fees and charges added to the facility after the October 2018 credit limit 
increase needs to be refunded
rework Mr Bs facility as if all payments made to it from the credit limit increase had 
been made towards the principal outstanding
she also said, that to this new balance, given Mr Bs current financial position that the 
remaining balance should be written off and 
finally, Drafty should remove any adverse payment information from Mr Bs credit file
Mr B confirmed he accepted the adjudicators outcome and he also told us he had had some 
health problems and had recently spent some time in hospital. 
Drafty responded to the adjudicator and partly agreed with the assessment. It explained that 
Mr Bs credit limit had actually been increased to £1,500 on 9 November 2018. Drafty 
accepted, that the 9 November 2018 was the date the complaint ought to be upheld from.
But it had a different view on how any redress should be calculated. It explained that any 
drawdowns before 9 November 2018 were appropriate and so they ought to continue to 
have the contractual interest added to it. Drafty therefore feels it is unreasonable to refund 
interest, fees and charges on drawdowns that the Financial Ombudsman Service considers 
reasonable. 
Had Drafty froze the interest, as the adjudicator requested, it would be required to put Mr B 
on a payment arrangement and then any adverse information would be recorded with the 
credit reference agencies. Drafty, then made a counteroffer where it would agree to refund 
the interest, fees and charges on new drawdowns from 9 November 2018. After tax and 
simple 8% interest, the refund amount would be £56.59. 
It also agreed to remove any adverse information in reference to the credit facility from 
Mr Bs credit file. 
With this refund, it would reduce Mr Bs outstanding balance to £1,188.71. However, should 
Mr B need a repayment plan to clear the balance, that information would be recorded with 
the credit reference agencies. 
This offer was put to Mr B and he didnt accept it, instead he requested the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
Later on, Mr B provided a copy of a default notice Drafty had sent to him in December 2022 
and he provided some further information about his current financial position as well as his 
health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.In practice, before any lending was advanced, Drafty had to take proportionate steps to 
ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay what they were borrowing in a sustainable 
manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. Put simply the lender had 
to gather enough information so that it could make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid. Ive kept all of this in 
mind when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before agreeing to Mr Bs 
Drafty facility. 
As explained, Mr B was given an open-ended credit facility. Overall, I think that this means 
the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand whether 
Mr B would be able to not only service but also repay his facility within a reasonable period 
of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Bs repayment record for any signs that he may 
have been experiencing financial difficulties.
Both Drafty and Mr B agree with the point at which the adjudicator upheld the facility  the 
credit limit increase in November 2018. So, I no longer think there is any dispute about when 
this complaint should be upheld. 
But for completeness, and in summary, I do agree with the adjudicator that by this credit limit 
increase Drafty ought to have carried out further checks. Had it done so, I think it wouldve 
likely discovered that Mr B wasnt working and was in receipt of benefits and thinking about 
the amount he received, he didnt have enough money to cover his living costs as well as 
repaying and servicing the facility. 
Therefore, like Drafty, Im going to be upholding the facility at the same point  the 
9 November 2018 which is when Mr Bs credit limit increased to £1,500. 
Instead, the dispute is really about how Drafty should put things right for Mr B and so it is this 
that I have considered as part of this decision.
Drafty has made a number of submissions regarding why what it has offered to do 
addresses Mr Bs loss in this case. However, I dont think it makes any difference in this 
case whether Drafty carries out the redress in line with what it thinks is fair or whether it 
carries out the redress in line with our typical approach. I say this because, I am intending to 
depart from our usual approach to putting things right in these types of cases and instead 
direct it to write off the balance that will remain whether it follows its approach or the 
approach of the Financial Ombudsman.
Mr B has provided evidence that he hasnt been in work since at least October 2018  and it 
may even be before that date. This is likely reflected in the repayment arrangements that 
Drafty has previously agreed whereby he has mainly been paying £4 per month towards the 
balance since June 2019. 
Mr B then provided further information after the adjudicators assessment that in 
August 2022, he had spent time in hospital due to further health problems and in 
December 2022 these health problems were ongoing and he is currently signed off until 
January 2023. What I would say, is that there appears to be no realistic prospect that Mr Bs financial 
position is likely to change significantly in the near future. Indeed, his current position has 
been almost static for the past four years. 
Assuming that Drafty would be happy to accept £4 per month  to be clear it hasnt agreed 
to this, and Mr B has said that he may only be able to afford £1 per month based on Draftys 
offer and its calculations it would take him (based £4 per month repayments) it would take 
Mr B nearly 25 years to repay the balance. If Mr B was to pay less, it would obviously take 
longer to be repaid. 
Therefore, given the length of time that Mr B has already been unable to work, the impact 
that this outstanding debt is likely to have on his health going forward and the fact that there 
doesnt appear to be any obvious change in his circumstance in the near to medium term 
future, I think its fair, and reasonable, that in this case, taking the individual circumstances 
that the Mr Bs facility is closed without any further payments being made by him to Drafty. 
Of course, if there is a change in circumstances, then I dont think it would be reasonable for 
Drafty to recover the outstanding principal that it is being asked to write off. But as things 
stand, I dont think that collecting the remaining balance is either realistic or likely to benefit 
either party. 
Ive outlined below what Drafty needs to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
So having thought about everything Drafty has said, I still think it is fair and reasonable for it 
to refund all interest fees and charges after 9 November 2018, and Ive outlined below what 
it needs to do in order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Remove all the unpaid interest, fees and charges from the account from 
9 November 2018
Treat all payments Mr B has made towards his account since 9 November 2018 as 
though they had been repayments of outstanding principal.
If at any point Mr B would have been in credit on the account after considering the 
above, Drafty will need to refund any overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on these payments, from the date they would have arisen, to the date the 
refund is made.
If there is an outstanding principal balance, then Drafty can use any refunds 
calculated to repay this. If a balance remains after this, then Drafty should write off 
what is owed and close the facility. 
Drafty can reflect that it has written off an amount owing on Mr Bs credit file should it 
wish to do so.  
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr B as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman