DRN-3146015
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard sent him a credit card 
which he did not ask for and refused to remove information about the account from his credit 
file.
What happened
Mr T says Barclaycard sent him a credit card in March 2021 that he didnt ask for. He would 
like Barclaycard to cancel the account and remove any information about the account from 
his credit file. Mr T says the issue has caused him stress and anxiety and would like 
Barclaycard to pay him compensation for what took place.
Barclaycard says Mr T applied for a credit card account online. It says it told him it needed to 
verify information on the application and asked Mr T on three occasions for that information. 
Barclaycard says the account application was approved with a credit limit of £200 but it 
wouldnt increase that limit as it didnt receive the requested information. It also says it acted 
correctly by reporting accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and 
will not remove it. The account has now been closed.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr T made the online application which was successful. But that Mr T didnt provide 
the required information that would have meant Barclaycard could have considered a higher 
credit limit. The investigator didnt think there was a mistake here and that Mr T was told his 
account application was successful.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says he did apply for the account but received a message 
saying the application had failed.
Barclaycard says Mr T has not told it about such a message before and says it has a record 
of calling Mr T.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T says he received a Barclaycard credit card that he didnt ask for. But 
having looked at Barclaycards records I am satisfied that Mr T applied for the account 
himself online without any advice form Barclaycard. So, I dont think it clear why Mr T told us 
in his complaint form that he didnt ask for the account.
Im satisfied that Mr T applied for the account and was told that Barclaycard needed further 
information. I can see from Barclaycards records that three requests were made for that 
information which I think was needed to consider a higher credit limit. I dont think Mr T 
responded to those requests and so I think it likely that Barclaycard approved the application 
but with a lower credit limit. I appreciate that Mr T may have thought the application was 
unsuccessful but that doesnt mean I can fairly hold Barclaycard responsible for that.
Im also satisfied that Mr T, in applying for the account, would have agreed to Barclaycard 
carrying out credit searches. And that the CRAs are obliged to accurately report account 
information which in this case was that Mr T applied for an account and a search took place 
on his credit file. I dont think a mistake was made and I have not seen any evidence that 
Barclaycard has reported any information to the CRAs that Mr T didnt agree to or is 
incorrect. In any event this account has been closed and I dont think any adverse 
information was ever reported on Mr Ts credit file or that what take place would have any 
significant effect on a credit file.
I appreciate Mr T says he received a message during the online application that it had failed. 
I dont think Mr T told Barclaycard about that when he complained to it and I think it likely on 
balance that the message may have been about the further information that was required 
rather than the application itself had failed.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr T applied for the credit card account and that Barclaycard hasnt 
acted unfairly or made a mistake by approving the application or by reporting information 
about the account that to the CRAs. For those reasons I cant order Barclaycard to remove 
any information from Mr Ts credit file or pay him the compensation he would like. I 
appreciate Mr T would have liked a higher credit limit, but Im satisfied that its up to 
Barclaycard to decide, when exercising its commercial judgement, to set a credit limit in 
these circumstances. I can see from Barclaycards records that an attempt was made to 
speak to Mr T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman