DRN-3164259
The complaint
Mr G complains about his insurer, Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) under his motor 
insurance policy. Mr Gs complaint is about his not being able to keep his vehicle following 
Ageass decision to treat his vehicle as a total loss following an accident.
Any reference to Ageas in this decision includes their agents. 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr Gs vehicle was damaged in a collision with another vehicle and he 
contacted Ageas to lodge a claim. Ageas asked Mr G for photographs of his vehicle so they 
could assess the damage. Based on photographs, Ageas concluded that the extent of the 
damage meant the vehicle should be treated as a total loss, as the estimated cost of repair 
exceeded the value of the vehicle.
Ageas offered Mr G £1,050 (£1,150 valuation less £100 excess) as settlement for the 
vehicle, on the basis they would collect and dispose of it as salvage. Mr G accepted the offer 
and provided bank account details for Ageas to make payment. He also provided vehicle 
registration details so they could update the ownership of the vehicle. Ageass salvage 
agents then collected the vehicle from Mr G.
A few months later Mr G was told that his vehicle was seen being driven by someone else. 
Mr G was surprised as he said he had wanted to keep the vehicle. Unhappy at this he 
complained to Ageas. Ageas rejected the complaint, saying that Mr G had accepted their 
settlement offer on the basis that the vehicle would be retained by them and disposed of as 
salvage. Ageas also said that when Mr G provided them with the vehicle registration details, 
theyd told him that the change in ownership couldnt be reversed (and that he agreed to 
this). Ageas also said Mr G hadnt told them at any point he wanted to retain the vehicle and 
that theyd acted with his consent and agreement.
Mr G was unhappy at his complaint being rejected and complained to this service. The main 
element of his complaint was that hed wanted to keep the vehicle but hadnt been able to do 
so. During our investigation of his complaint, Mr G also alleged that someone at Ageas had 
sought to have the vehicle declared a total loss, with the intention of it then being disposed 
of to someone they knew.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that Ageas had followed their normal 
procedures in assessing the damage to the vehicle, declaring the vehicle a total loss and 
then disposing of it as salvage. He also concluded there was no evidence Mr G had asked to 
retain his vehicle. While it had been repaired and seen being driven, this wasnt uncommon. 
The investigator also noted Mr Gs allegations about how someone at Ageas had acted were 
refuted by Ageas. Based on this, he didnt think Mr Gs allegations were supported. 
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr G.
The main part of Mr Gs complaint is that  once it had been treated as a total loss - he 
wasnt able to keep his vehicle. Ageas say that they made it clear that in accepting their total 
loss settlement the vehicle would be retained by them and disposed of. Ageas also say that 
Mr G hadnt told them at any point he wanted to retain the vehicle and that theyd acted with 
his consent and agreement. Ive considered both views carefully and looked at the evidence 
available. Ive also listened to the call recordings between Mr G and Ageas in which Ageas 
say that he agreed their settlement offer. 
On the first aspect, the decision to declare the vehicle a total loss, Ive seen the report from 
Ageas that puts the value of the vehicle at the time of the accident (the Pre Accident Value) 
at £1,150 and their letter to Mr G that explains that his vehicle is likely to be a total loss. From 
the call recordings of the subsequent discussions between Mr G and Ageas, its clear that Mr 
G isnt initially happy, but Ageas explain that this is based on their engineers assessment, 
including that the MOT certificate had expired (on the day of the accident) and that there was 
also pre-existing damage to the vehicle. Ive not seen specific evidence of the estimated cost 
of repair, but based on the valuation of the vehicle and the indications of the damage from 
the photographs in the report, Ive concluded that it was reasonable for Ageas to treat the 
vehicle as a total loss.
Having concluded that it was reasonable for Ageas to treat the vehicle as a total loss, Ive 
considered the point about whether Mr G (as he maintains) asked to keep the vehicle. Or (as 
Ageas maintain) it was made clear that in accepting the total loss settlement he was 
agreeing and consenting to the vehicle being collected and disposed of. Ive also considered 
what Ageas have told us about their policy not to promote policyholders retaining their 
vehicle if treated as a total loss. But that they would consider retention only if a policyholder 
requests it (and Ageass engineer agrees). As a policy, thats a position for Ageas to take as 
an insurer. But the key issue to consider here is whether Mr G asked to keep the vehicle.
Having listened carefully to the call recordings between Ageas and Mr G, as Ive noted Mr G 
initially isnt happy with the settlement offer. He does ask about options for repair but is told 
that the engineers assessment is that the damage to the vehicle makes it uneconomical to 
repair. But he doesnt specifically ask about keeping the vehicle, or request to do so. Ive 
also listened to the subsequent recording where Mr G provides his bank account details for 
payment of the settlement and his vehicle registration document details so that the change 
of ownership can be made. Its also made clear that his vehicle will be collected by Ageass 
salvage agents (within two to three working days).
 
Based on this, Ive concluded that Mr G didnt ask to retain the vehicle. And in proceeding 
with the settlement offer it was made clear by Ageas that (when providing them with the 
vehicle registration details) that the change in ownership couldnt be reversed.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy. The policy booklet sets out the 
process where a vehicle is treated as a total loss. It states that where a total loss settlement 
is accepted, the vehicle will belong to the insurer (Ageas). This is consistent with Ageas 
asking for the vehicle registration details so that the change of ownership can be notified to 
the DVLA (as the relevant authority). The booklet also sets out that (under the heading 
Disposing of your car if it cannot be repaired) the insurer will arrange fo an appointed 
salvage agent to collect the vehicle to dispose of it. Again, this is consistent with what happened in Mr Gs case. So Ive concluded that Ageas acted in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Based on these factors, Ive concluded that Ageas acted fairly and reasonably when 
treating Mr Gs vehicle to be a total loss. And that they acted reasonably in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy when offering a total loss settlement and 
explaining what acceptance of the settlement would mean.  
Ive also considered Mr Gs allegations that someone at Ageas had sought to have the 
vehicle declared a total loss, with the intention of it then being disposed of to someone they 
knew. Ive considered Ageass response to these allegations, as well as the evidence and 
my conclusions about the decision to treat Mr Gs vehicle as a total loss. Its clear that the 
decision to treat the vehicle as a total loss was based on an engineers assessment that the 
vehicle was beyond economical repair. And it was made clear to Mr G that in accepting the 
total loss settlement the vehicle ownership would change and that it would be collected by 
the salvage agent. 
Its also the case that the vehicle was assessed to be a category N total loss. Meaning the 
damage  although not economical [for Ageas] to repair  was non-structural. That means it 
was less severe than other types of damage and so (if repaired to an appropriate standard) 
the vehicle could be driven on the road legally. Once collected by the salvage agents, it 
would be for them (not Ageas) to determine how to dispose of the vehicle, including the 
option of selling it to a buyer who could choose to repair it. So, it wouldnt be impossible for 
the vehicle to have been seen (as it appears happened) back on the road. And as Mr G has 
provided no evidence to support his allegations, then Ive concluded that there isnt anything 
to indicate Ageas have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr G.
I recognise that this will be disappointing for Mr G, but I hope that Ive been able to 
explain the reasoning for my conclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman