DRN-3951965
The complaint
Mr H complains that a new bike he acquired through a Conditional Sale Agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc (Santander) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr H took out an agreement for a brand-new bike in June 2022. As such I think he 
could have  reasonably expected it to be fault free. There is no dispute that Mr H 
raised some issues within the first six months of having the bike. These comprised 
issues with the paintwork, fuel cap, a leaking radiator, the acceleration not fully 
working , juddering, and cutting out. When issues arise within six months we usually 
say its down to the business to identify if issues were present at the point of sale. If 
so, we usually say its reasonable to allow one repair attempt.
I have seen an email from the dealership confirming that the fuel cap was faulty. So 
whilst  Santander has made a compelling case of user error with the fuel cap which it 
replaced several times at no cost to Mr H, explaining that that the cap worked 
faultlessly every time it demonstrated it to him, it seems the initial one was faulty. The 
dealership information  on an email dated July 2022 - also confirms there have been 
multiple issues with the bike.. 
The dealership found no evidence of a leaking radiator, but moisture was present on 
the overflow pipe. This was deemed normal as it was during a heatwave. I find that 
logical. The dealership denied damaging the petrol tank  damage was deemed to be 
stone chips, but as a gesture of goodwill it replaced the tank. I am not persuaded that 
these were point of sale issues for which Santander is responsible. And in any event 
the petrol tank was replaced.
However, the dealership did find evidence of juddering under acceleration. It carried 
out appropriate repairs and test drove the bike twice finding no further issues. So, its 
clear to me there was an issue with juddering within the first six months which 
resulted in a repair. Mr H says this is intermittent but ongoing issue. I understand the 
dealership had the bike back in but was unable to replicate the fault. However, as the 
issue was intermittent thats not surprising. Santander has told us that Mr H has used 
the car for a significant number of miles in which case I think  its more likely he 
would have experienced the problem than the individual who carried out two short 
test drives. 
I am also mindful that Mr H gave us a serious quality defect recall notice dated 
November 2022 about the main wiring harness. I dont know if that relates to the 
juddering issue but taking all of the information into account its clear to me there 
were at least three issues present when Mr H got the bike  a faulty fuel cap, 
juddering plus a serious quality defect. The fuel cap once repaired may have been an 
ongoing issue due to user error, the recall notice can be addressed but I am 
persuaded the juddering is an issue that was present at the point of sale and not 
resolved by repair. On this basis I think its fair to allow Mr H to reject the bike.
In terms of redress I agree with our investigators recommendations as detailed below
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Santander UK plc should :-
End Mr Hs agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect the bike at no cost to Mr H
Refund Mr Hs deposit and part exchange payment
Refund 5% of the payments Mr H made from 23 June 2022 to the date of settlement 
to cover any loss of or impaired use of the bike because of the quality issues
Pay Mr H  8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr H £150 for any distress or inconvenience thats been caused due to the faulty 
bike.
Remove any adverse information  from Mr Hs credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman