DRN-3156350
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how Domestic & General Insurance Plc settled and handled his claim 
for his damaged TV.
What happened
Mr P purchased insurance provided by Domestic & General which covered his TV for 
accidental damage or breakdown. In June 2021 Mr P made a claim as his TV was damaged. 
Domestic & General first attempted to repair the TV but as this was unsuccessful they 
offered Mr P a replacement TV.  Mr P was unhappy only one TV had been offered and he 
didnt feel the model offered reflected the specification of TV he had. Domestic & General 
added additional TVs to a portal for Mr P to view including one that matched the 
specification with no upgrade fee.
Mr P contacted Domestic & General as the majority of the TVs offered were out of stock. He 
also said the TVs offered were significantly less in price than what he purchased his TV for, 
so he didnt think that was fair.
As the TV Mr P had was no longer available, Domestic & General checked with the 
manufacturer of Mr Ps TV to see which TV would be a suitable alternative. The 
manufacturer advised a TV from their A7100 range would be a suitable replacement, one of 
which had already been offered to Mr P.
Following further discussions Domestic & General also added additional TVs for Mr P to 
view, including other branded TVs. But there was a delay in this happening meaning Mr P 
had to chase them about it. At this point they also offered Mr P a cash settlement of £475 but 
this was refused.
Mr P also had some concerns around the service he was given and asked to speak to a 
manager. He was transferred to their resolutions team who apologised for the poor service 
and as a gesture of goodwill offered Mr P £200 waiver on the upgrade cost for a 
replacement TV. And upon a further review paid Mr P an additional £10 for the poor service.
Mr P referred his concerns to this service. He felt the terms of the policy hadnt been 
correctly applied and felt additional compensation for the poor service was warranted. Our 
investigator felt Domestic & General had resolved the claim in line with their terms and 
conditions. And fairly compensated Mr P for the level of service provided.
As Mr P remained unhappy it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the policy set out how Domestic & General will resolve a claim. 
It says:
If your equipment suffers from breakdown after any relevant manufacturers warranty, 
we will do one of the following: adjust, repair or replace the equipment.
Any replacement equipment provided may be a refurbished product (of at least the 
same functionality) however we cannot guarantee that it will be the same make, 
model or colour as your original
If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement to be supplied to you, we will provide 
you with a voucher instead. The vouchers will be for the full retail price (from a retailer 
chosen by us) of a replacement product of the same or similar make and technical 
specification.
As Domestic & General were unable to repair the TV they offered a replacement which is in 
line with their terms. Mr P was unhappy as he said he paid around £1,300 for his TV and the 
value of the TVs offered as a replacement were significantly less than that. 
However, its clear that a replacement could be a refurbished product and may not be the 
same make or model. And whilst Mr P says he paid around £1,300 for his original TV, it was 
around eight years old at the time of the claim and the policy doesnt specify that it will 
provide a replacement TV to the same value of what Mr P originally paid. Instead they look 
to replace with the same or similar specification.
Im aware there was some confusion around the type of TV offered initially as it wasnt to the 
same specification Mr P had. I can see Domestic & General then checked with the 
manufacturer of Mr Ps original TV to see which TV would be a suitable alternative as the TV 
he had was no longer available. The manufacturer confirmed that one of the TVs that had 
since been offered was a suitable replacement as it was of a similar specification. So, I think 
at this point Domestic & General had done enough to settle Mr Ps claim fairly.
As Mr P remained unhappy Domestic & General said they would add additional TVs for him 
to choose from including other branded TVs. There was some difficulty viewing these and 
misunderstandings resulted in a cash settlement offer of £475 and a complaint being raised 
about the service. 
Mr P felt this offer was too low, but I can see the terms state in the event they cannot replace 
the TV they would offer a voucher for the full retail price of the same or similar make and 
specification. Having checked the A7100 range the manufacturer said would be a suitable 
replacement, I can see the TVs are within the range of the cash settlement offered. So I 
dont think the amount offered was unreasonable. 
In dealing with the service complaint, the resolutions team apologised for the poor service 
and offered Mr P a £200 waiver on the upgrade cost for a replacement TV as a gesture of 
goodwill. This appeared to resolve Mr Ps concerns.
At Mr Ps request they also added specific branded TVs and made him aware that an 
upgrade cost for these TVs may apply. Mr P went on to order one of these TVs utilising the 
£200 waiver and paying an additional £85. Im satisfied it was made clear there was an 
upgrade fee on some of the TVs and it was Mr Ps choice to pay this.In their final response letter Domestic & General accepted the service provided could have 
been better, acknowledging the number of calls Mr P had to make and that one of their 
agents had been confrontational. They apologised and offered £10 compensation in addition 
to the £200 waiver already offered. 
I know Mr P feels this isnt enough to compensate him. Having listened to the call in 
question, I can understand why Mr P was unhappy with the way the handler dealt with the 
call. And I know he had to chase them on more than one occasion due to errors that had 
occurred. 
However, when considering the overall service provided, Ive taken account of the £200 
waiver and the £10 compensation and I think Domestic & General have compensated 
Mr P fairly. I say this because in line with their terms they had offered a suitable 
replacement. So, the £200 waiver was simply a gesture of goodwill taking account of the 
service Mr P had received.
Whilst I recognise it would have been frustrating to have had to chase Domestic & General 
to get the claim moving, and upsetting to have been spoken to in that way, I think £210 fairly 
reflects the overall impact on Mr P.
My final decision
My final decision is that Domestic & General Insurance Plc have fairly settled Mr Ps claim 
and compensated him accordingly for the poor service provided so dont need to do anything 
more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman