DRN-2943491
The complaint
Mr M complained Lloyds Bank Plc treated him unfairly when he tried to complete a 
transaction and when they decided to close his accounts.
What happened
On 19 January 2021 Mr M went into a branch of Lloyds as he wanted to make a transfer to a 
third-party involving cryptocurrency. Lloyds say they followed usual procedures. They 
encouraged Mr M to do some further checks and gave him information on where to look on 
the regulators website.
Mr M went to a different branch the next day and wanted to proceed with the transfer. He 
said hed done some checks. Mr M wasnt happy with the questions he was asked. The 
branch manager became involved. Mr M continued to be unhappy, and ultimately left without 
the transaction being completed. At the time he left, the manager had mentioned the 
possibility of his account being closed. 
Lloyds called Mr M and issued a formal letter to Mr M the same day. This informed him 
Lloyds were withdrawing the banking service they provided to him, and his accounts would 
be closed in two months. Lloyds say this was a consequence of Mr Ms unacceptable 
behaviour in the branch. They say two months gave Mr M enough time to make alternative 
arrangements.
By the time Mr M was told his banking services were to be withdrawn, hed already made a 
complaint to Lloyds about his visit to the branch. He then phoned Lloyds again after being 
told the service would be withdrawn and complained further. These calls all took place on 
the same day.
During the second phone call Mr M said the branch staff had been trying to demean him, so 
hed done the same to them. He didnt think their behaviour was acceptable and gave an 
example. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. They considered they had a duty to ask questions 
when transactions raised concern. They said they wanted to reassure Mr M the main reason 
is to protect customers interests due to frauds and scams. Lloyds concluded their questions 
and subsequent refusal to proceed with the transaction had been appropriate. They told Mr 
M that whilst they understood hed been frustrated, they have a policy against abusive 
behaviour. This was why the manager had issued a notice of closure. 
Mr M also complained about blocks on his account. Lloyds said the notes and blocks applied 
wouldnt have stopped regular standing orders or direct debits. They let him know the most 
recent payment of £500 on 3 February 2021 had been stopped for a standard security 
check. This had involved bitcoin. Lloyds went on to say transactions werent stopped without 
good reason and such decisions were informed by information and experience. There were 
daily amendments applied across all their customers.
Mr M complained that the closure and the actions taken around it were unacceptable and 
caused him loss. He also didnt think hed been given the right information about the closure. 
He said hed been prevented from food shopping and paying bills. Mr M thought Lloyds 
ought to pay him for the cost of phone calls and the loss for a potential profit he said was 
incurred around the investment.
Investigators view
The investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint ought to be upheld. She acknowledged Mr M 
was unhappy his investment would be delayed. But said that didnt mean Lloyds had done 
anything wrong.  She accepted Lloyds undertook the checks they were required to, 
particularly having established a risk, for the protection of their customers, including Mr M, 
when asking him questions.
The investigator said she understood Mr M thought the questions indicated the bank staff 
werent equipped to help and thought this caused Mr M to become frustrated. She didnt 
think the account closure was wrong or unreasonable as the terms set out when they were 
entitled to do so. An example of improper behaviour was given and covered what Lloyds 
said Mr M had displayed.
The investigator concluded Lloyds given timely and accurate information to Mr M. Theyd 
administered his account properly and facilitated his switch to a new account. 
She thought the closure was directly linked to his behaviour in the bank. As she didnt think 
Lloyds had done anything wrong, she didnt consider them liable for any losses. In any event 
she didnt accept there were losses that could be established.
Mr M didnt accept the investigators view. He said Lloyds and their staff werent telling the 
truth. He didnt feel this service was acting independently when looking at his case. 
He told us bank staff had tried to make him look stupid, but hed been better at it than them. 
He felt theyd tried to intimidate him, he didnt feel intimidated but continued to consider their 
behaviour unacceptable. He didnt think it was reasonable to ask a customer to confirm 
information he considered they ought to be able to read.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 23 June 2021. I indicated I didnt intend to 
uphold the main thrust of Mr Ms complaint. I didnt think Lloyds did anything wrong in 
relation to the activities in the branches in January 2021 or in respect of the notice of closure 
of the account and the administration of his account, apart from in respect of one incident.
I indicated I didnt feel I knew enough about an apparent block placed on Mr Ms card which 
hed only discovered when he tried to pay at a supermarket. Mr M didnt dispute the 
transactions leading to the block were fraudulent, but I wasnt satisfied Lloyds had done 
everything right when it came to the block and informing Mr M. As a consequence I set out 
areas in which I invited further information. I also indicated I thought Lloyds ought to pay Mr 
M £50 to reflect his inconvenience.
Lloyds told us that due to the passage of time they couldnt provide information about 
blocked transactions. They agreed to pay the £50 proposed.
Mr M told us initially he hadnt received my provisional decision. We provided a further copy 
and went on to contact him to see if he had further representations. But Mr M hasnt been in 
further contact with this service.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision. So I dont uphold 
the main thrust of Mr Ms complaint. But I do accept Lloyds could have dealt with things 
better when it came to an apparent block on Mr Ms card and what he said to them about 
this, so they will need to pay Mr M £50 to reflect his inconvenience.
I am comfortable based on what Ive seen Mr M has been given sufficient opportunity to 
provide any further information or representations. I dont think Lloyds reasoning about why 
some of the information I requested isnt available is particularly persuasive. But having 
balanced everything I consider Im able to go on to make my decision in this case despite 
the lack of substantive response to my provisional decision.
I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong in relation to the activities in the branches in January 
2021 or in respect of the notice of closure of the account. I dont think Lloyds treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably around this. I accept Lloyds were following their usual procedures 
for customers and were trying to safeguard Mr M, in line with the terms of his account and 
their usual policies when it came to his proposed transaction.
Having listened to the first phone call Mr M made to Lloyds on 20 January 2021 to complain I 
think there are aspects to his complaint Lloyds could have dealt with better because of what 
was said in this call. 
Attempted transaction in January 2021 and decision to close Mr Ms accounts
I accept Lloyds staff in both the branches he visited were concerned by the transaction Mr M 
wanted to complete. Their concern was not personal to Mr M, despite what he appears to 
have felt. I accept the branch staff followed usual procedure around this type of transaction. I 
dont think this approach is unusual amongst UK High Street banks. I think it prudent to have 
signposted the regulator and the information available.
I understand from listening to the complaint phone calls, Mr M considers himself to be expert 
and experienced. However having also heard him outline some of the fraud and malicious 
activity he has experienced in a relatively short time involving his technological and financial 
arrangements, I hope he appreciates the value that is added by the exercise of prudence. 
Lloyds suggest when Mr M attended on 20 January 2021 he was asked for information on 
the transaction and became aggressive and abusive and threw his card at the member of 
staff. Lloyds say it was at this point the branch manager became involved and refused to 
proceed with the transaction because of Mr Ms behaviour and then asked him to leave. The 
bank records suggest Mr M confirmed he wanted to close the account. Its recorded Mr M 
has some history of being aggressive in the branch once any questions are asked or 
processes discussed. 
It doesnt appear to me Mr M denies to a significant extent his behaviour might have been 
perceived as aggressive. Mr M says he felt the way bank staff treated him as if he was 
stupid, whilst he felt it was the member of bank staff who was incompetent. He says he 
asked the bank staff if they could read and if they needed to use his glasses. He told Lloyds 
on the phone afterwards that he felt demeaned and where this happens, he will respond in 
the same way. Mr M said a police officer who happened to be in the branch had come over 
to him because [Mr M thought] of his behaviour and what he might do.
Its clear the situation became heated. Mr M refers to retaliating. I dont accept that was what 
he was doing. On balance whilst I accept Mr M felt he was being shown disrespect, I dont accept this was the intention of the bank staff involved. I think the bank staff were applying 
their policy for such transactions to Mr M. Mr M became frustrated and felt he was being 
disrespected and reacted in a way that was reasonably perceived by the bank staff as being 
abusive and aggressive. From what Mr M has said, I think he intended it to be perceived that 
way.
I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong when they gave Mr M notice they intended to close 
his banking facilities. In general terms, and with some important exceptions which dont 
apply here, this is a matter for the bank. I dont think Mr M disagrees the bank have a policy 
they wont accept abusive or intolerant behaviour to their staff. I think his behaviour met this 
description and I tend to think Mr M would agree to some extent. Mr M is mainly suggesting 
his behaviour was reasonable as it reflected the same behaviour as that of the bank staff. As 
Ive explained I dont think that was the case. 
Mr M referred in a call to Lloyds, to having a medical condition that causes him to be short 
tempered. And he mentioned having problems with his immune system. Im not aware of 
Lloyds having been informed of this. Nor has he told this service anything further.
Lloyds chose to withdraw their banking facilities based on events in the branch and this was 
explained to Mr M. I dont think this was unfair to Mr M. I dont think Mr M was treated 
differently to another customer in a similar situation when it came to the transaction or 
events in the branch and the closure. Lloyds made the decision based on the behaviour 
experienced from Mr M. Based on what has been provided it might reasonably be concluded 
the relationship had broken down irretrievably. I consider two months to have been enough 
time for Mr M to make alternative arrangements.
For completeness I dont think when Mr M first called to complain on 20 January 2021 
Lloyds service was entirely satisfactory. As a consequence, it supported Mr M in some of his 
thinking that hed been treated unfairly.
Despite this representatives suggestion about how the bank could assist Mr M in the future, 
Mr M was aware the bank were considering closing his accounts with them and he knew the 
person he was speaking to on the phone didnt have any notes on his recent visit available. 
In addition he was informed very soon after this call that Lloyds were closing his accounts. 
So I dont think it can be said Mr M suffered any significant loss of expectation around his 
banking. Ive seen notes suggesting Mr M indicated he wanted to close his accounts. Albeit I 
appreciate he went on to suggest to Lloyds that if they did close his accounts, they would 
regret it, I consider the language and tone used around such comments might reasonably be 
considered threatening.
As I dont accept Lloyds did anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly around the transaction 
and closure of his accounts, they dont need to pay Mr M anything to reflect any speculative 
losses he says he suffered from not being able to invest when he wanted to.
During the first complaint phone call to Lloyds, the intended recipient of the cryptocurrency 
funds called Mr M. Ive been able to hear the conversation as Mr M played it on his 
speakerphone. Mr M tells the caller he wants to check things out, so I am left with the 
impression Mr M wasnt satisfied with everything around the transaction in any event.
Mr Ms card was blocked, and he only discovered this when he went to pay in the 
supermarket in January 2021
When Mr M first called Lloyds to complain about the way hed been treated in the branch 
which led to his account being put on notice of closure, he also referred to complaining about 
a recent time when his card had been declined in a supermarket.The Lloyds representative on the phone expressed some sympathy with Mr M and explored 
this further. It wasnt clear to me this aspect of Mr Ms complaint was properly addressed by 
Lloyds, which is why I invited further submissions.
Based on the contents of the phone call I understand Lloyds identified two suspicious 
transactions on Mr Ms card. These appear to have been attempted payments for the same 
amount to two different companies with the purchases being made in the absence of the 
cardholder. Lloyds seem to have declined the payments and either frozen or blocked Mr Ms 
card. However according to Mr M in the phone call, Lloyds didnt try to contact him about the 
transactions or let him know his card was blocked. 
The Lloyds representative during the first complaint phone call that Ive listened to, tells Mr M 
this was wrong and Lloyds ought to have contacted him. I have some sympathy with this 
approach. It appears Mr M contacted the bank when his card was declined which is how he 
knows what had happened. Mr M says the transactions were fraudulent, so he is pleased 
they were stopped but he was embarrassed to have his card declined. The Lloyds 
representative seems to provide a reason why they didnt contact Mr M. However the reason 
isnt satisfactory.
I am disappointed none of the further information I invited was provided by Mr M or Lloyds. 
There were apparent inconsistencies about when this happened and any inconvenience. On 
balance I think its reasonable for me to proceed on the basis I previously set out. 
I acknowledge the evidence available to me around this apparent incident is very limited, but 
it is discussed in the initial complaint call, where the Lloyds representative seems to admit 
fault. I continue to think Lloyds ought to pay Mr M £50.
Its clear to me Mr M appears to have experienced a very high number of frauds and scams 
and attempted transactions and various software issues and all within a comparatively short 
space of time. Mr M considers he has expertise around esoteric trading and unregulated 
financial activities, but I have some sympathy with Lloyds perception they wanted to ensure 
Mr M wasnt being coerced and was aware of the potential areas of risk. 
Further blocks 
When Mr M first contacted us, he told us that since hed complained to Lloyds his bank card 
had been blocked nearly every day. But I dont accept thats what happened based on what 
Ive seen. Ive also seen Lloyds temporarily removed internal blocks to enable the switch to 
proceed. This is part of the usual switching approach.
Lloyds said there were notes and blocks applied to the account that wouldnt stop regular 
standing orders or direct debits. And they let him know the most recent payment of £500 on 
3 February 2021 had been stopped for a standard security check. This was a request 
relating to bitcoin. I havent seen anything that makes me think Mr M was having blocks 
unfairly applied or any checks completed that ought not to have been.
Ive seen the concerns Lloyds had about Mr M trying to make repeated payments to an 
account for a company based overseas and Mr M providing inconsistent information around 
the name of the account. Lloyds say were trying to help Mr M, and this reflected their 
thinking in early February 2021. I tend to agree. 
ConclusionBased on everything Ive seen I dont accept Lloyds staff were unreasonable in relation to 
the transaction attempted on 19 and 20 January 2021. They were following their usual 
procedure and policy which is intended to assist in the protection of customers. I also dont 
accept their decision to close Mr Ms accounts was unfair or unreasonable. I think it reflected 
a reasonable perception of his behaviour and it was an application of a wider policy.
It isnt clear to me why it appears Lloyds may not have contacted Mr M earlier in January 
2021 when there were potentially two suspicious attempted transactions. I accept this is 
discussed during Mr Ms first complaint phone call on 20 January 2021. It is not clear to me if 
this was addressed thereafter. Neither Mr M or Lloyds have been of assistance on this. But I 
think its reasonable, having listened to this first complaint call provided to require Lloyds to 
pay Mr M £50.
Putting things right
Lloyds will need to pay Mr M £50 to reflect his inconvenience. This will need to be paid by 
cheque to Mr M within 28 days of being notified of Mr Ms acceptance of this final decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part against Lloyds Bank Plc. They are 
required to pay Mr M in the terms as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman