DRN-3621560
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about the time it has taken, and the treatment they have 
received from ITI Capital Limited (ITI) when their joint account was migrated over from a 
previous firm. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr and Mrs Ws share account, which they held with a previous firm that had 
gone into administration, was transferred over to ITI. Mr and Mrs W were meant to be able to 
access their account around six weeks later but there were issues with the onboarding 
system as Mr and Mrs W say it was not set up for joint accounts. Post onboarding ITI failed 
to allocate their shareholdings and cash to their account. Their portfolio had fallen in value 
since the previous business had gone into administration. Because of the problems they 
experienced Mr and Mrs W wanted to transfer their account to another platform provider 
which ITI had failed to do in a timely manner. They complained to ITI. 
ITI responded to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint on 14 January 2021. It said;
the delay in completing the transfer was unacceptable and the timeframes for 
responding to Mr and Mrs W were subject to unreasonable delay. 
It had experienced a high number of transfer requests but Mr and Mrs Ws new 
broker had been sent the valuation of their account on 5 January 2021 and was 
awaiting acceptance. 
It also apologised for the delay in providing access to their account. 
It offered £150 for the inconvenience and/or distress caused. 
Mr and Mrs W werent happy with the outcome so brought their complaint to the       
Financial Ombudsman. 
ITI made an increased offer of £350 which Mr and Mrs W didnt feel was enough for the time 
they had spent trying to resolve the issues, the stress and inconvenience they suffered and 
the loss in the value of their portfolio. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that it should be upheld. Briefly, he 
said;
Mr and Mrs W hadnt been able to access their account with ITI and had asked for it 
to be transferred to the new platform provider on 8 September 2020 which didnt 
complete until 18 March 2021.
Despite Mr and Mrs Ws considerable efforts there was little progress with the 
transfer until near completion.
It was only information received from the joint administrator of the previous firm that 
gave Mr and Mrs W comfort that their shareholdings hadnt been lost. 
Mr and Mrs W would have reinvested dividends, corporate action proceeds and cash 
totalling £635.77 at an earlier date and most likely would have sold their holding of 
Rolls Royce ordinary shares. But for the latter he couldnt establish there was a 
financial loss as the shares had risen in value since the transfer to ITI. 
If Mr and Mrs W had suffered a loss on any of their other shareholdings between    
22 September 2020  which he thought was a reasonable transfer date to assume 
after the instruction being given on 8 September 2020  to 18 March 2021 this should 
be paid to them plus 8% simple interest over the same period. 
He also thought 8% simple interest should be applied to the cash of £635.77 from the 
date of transfer to ITI to the date it was paid to Mr and Mrs Ws new account on       
18 March 2021 as Mr and Mrs W would have reinvested the money as soon as they 
had control over it. 
He recommended that Mr and Mrs W be paid £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience they had been caused because of the delays. 
ITI didnt respond to the investigator. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I broadly agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator and Im going 
to uphold the complaint. I dont think ITI has behaved reasonably however I think the 
suggested payment of interest for the time Mr and Mrs W were out of pocket and the £350 
compensation recommended is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs Ws inability to access their account
Mr and Mrs W held a total of five shareholdings (one of which they were told by the new 
platform provider was a non-transferable asset) and cash, the majority of which werent 
showing correctly on their ITI account. Mrs W sent many emails and spent long amounts of 
time on the phone trying to resolve the onboarding of their account with ITI and being able to 
access it. 
After considerable frustration at being unable to access their account Mr and Mrs W 
instructed ITI to transfer their account to another platform provider on 8 September 2020 
where they already had opened an account. As Ive said above, this didnt complete until    
18 March 2021, over six months later. And during this time Mr and Mrs W were unsure of 
what shareholdings they had in their account with ITI. It was only information provided by the 
joint special administrator of the previous firm that informed Mr and Mrs W what had been 
transferred to ITI and when. 
Clearly Mr and Mrs W should have been able to access their account with ITI within a 
reasonable timeframe which didnt happen. Nor did ITI respond to queries raised by           
Mr and Mrs W or complete action when it said it would. The service provided by ITI was 
below the levels that would be expected. 
Mr and Mrs Ws inability to trade
Mr and Mrs W have said they are active with their share dealing account but couldnt access 
it when it was held by ITI. I can see from the statement of account they set up with the new 
product provider they did carry out trades from July 2020, so I think its likely they were active investors and would have taken action with their account earlier if they could have 
done. 
Mr and Mrs W had cash on their account which had been transferred over from the 
predecessor company, but they were not able to access this in order to reinvest it.              
Mr and Mrs W should have been able to access it and I have addressed this point further in 
my decision as I think they should be compensated for this. 
Mr and Mrs W have also said they would likely have sold their Rolls Royce ordinary shares 
but werent able to and the shares had considerably fallen in value since the predecessor 
company went into administration. However, and as concluded by the investigator, the 
shareholding rose in value from the time it was with ITI and to the time it was transferred to 
the new provider, so Mr and Mrs W hadnt lost out financially. And in any event, I cant see 
there was a firm instruction to sell the holding during the period of transfer. 
So, while the delays were undoubtedly frustrating for Mr and Mrs W I havent seen any 
evidence that they did try to carry out any trades during this time, which ITI failed to act upon 
and which caused them to suffer a financial loss. 
The service provided by ITI
It is very clear from Mr and Mrs Ws submissions, and the documents they have provided  
they have referred to many emails and phone calls  that Mr and Mrs Ws experience with 
ITI has been a poor one. Mr and Mrs W suffered significant delays throughout  from their 
initial attempts at accessing their account and their request to transfer the account in 
September 2020 through to trying the get the actual transfer completed. 
I dont know the size of the client base that ITI took over from the previous provider that went 
into administration. But and as already acknowledged by ITI, I think its likely that the new 
additional accounts and investments will inevitably have had an impact on ITIs capacity and 
ability to deal with new customers and increased requests. And it seems evident there were 
some IT issues. 
Putting things right
That being said, its clear Mr and Mrs W have had a very difficult time during the process and 
Im sure feel stressed by the whole affair. The investigator acknowledged this by asking ITI 
to pay the increased offer of £350.
Ive carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ws points and I am aware they feel strongly about their 
complaint. But I have also borne in mind our long-standing approach to awards for distress 
caused. Clearly, it must have been very frustrating for Mr and Mrs W not being able to take 
any action with their account. But, after ITIs initial offer of £150 I think the £350 now offered 
is a fairer reflection of the distress and inconvenience cause to Mr and Mrs W. 
The investigator also recommended that ITI should pay interest for the time Mr and Mrs W 
were out of pocket when they didnt have access to their cash of £635.77 and most likely 
would have reinvested it as soon as they had control over it. He thought simple interest 
should be paid on that amount at a rate of 8% from the date the cash was received by ITI 
from the predecessor firm  23 July 2020  to the date it was transferred to the new product 
provider on 18 March 2021. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W reinvested the funds shortly after its receipt with the new product 
provider which suggests its most likely they did want to take action with the cash. But it cant 
be known for sure what and when they would have done with that cash if they had access to it sooner. So, in the absence of not knowing what action Mr and Mrs W would have taken, I 
agree 8% simple interest is a fair award for the time Mr and Mrs W didnt have access to 
their money and would otherwise have reinvested it. 
The investigator also recommended that Mr and Mrs W be compensated for any loss they 
suffered in the value of their shareholdings during the transfer process, again plus simple 
interest at a rate of 8%. Having looked at the value of the portfolio between 22 September 
2020  which I agree is a reasonable timeframe after Mr and Mrs W requested the transfer  
to the date of actual transfer, Mr and Mrs Ws portfolio has increased in value so I cant see 
they have suffered a financial loss for which they should be compensated. 
No doubt Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed in my decision not to uphold it any further than I 
have done. But I hope I have been able to explain to them how and why I have reached that 
decision. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the service they received from ITI Capital Limited. 
ITI Capital Limited should compensate Mr and Mrs W as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman