DRN-3312802
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the recording of his address with Soteria Insurance Limited
when he made a claim under his home and buildings insurance policy.
All references to the insurer Soteria in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
[In December 2006 Mr B insured address K with Soteria. Soteria initially told us Mr B
renewed this policy until it lapsed in December 2018. But it has since told us the lapse date
was December 2017.
Documents show Soteria sent Mr Bs documents to an address Mr B lived in before K which
Ill refer to as X. However, the risk address which Soteria was insuring was address K in the
documents.
In November 2017 Soteria has a record of Mr B calling to set up a second policy  with the
risk address being X. However, Mr B says he hasnt lived at address X since 2006.
In May 2021 Mr B made a claim to Soteria. The error was identified and resolved. Soteria
changed Mr Bs address from X to K and accepted his claim as a goodwill gesture.
Soteria said that it didnt have a recording of the sales call from November 2017. But it
believed the only reason it would have set up the new policy under address X would be if Mr
B had given this information.
Mr B asked us to look at his complaint. Mr B wanted Soteria to refund the premium hed paid
since December 2017 for property X as he hadnt lived there. Soteria has agreed to refund
the premium Mr B had paid for dual insurance from December 2017 to November 2018. But
it didnt agree to do any more
Our investigator thought a fair outcome was for Soteria to provide a refund for the premium.
Mr B paid for X for the whole period address X was insured to June 2021 with interest. She
said Mr B was paying for a policy he couldnt have derived any benefit from.
Soteria didnt agree.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2021. I thought Soteria should refund the
premium Mr B paid for dual insurance from December 2017 to December 2018. But as he
hadnt been prejudiced by any error Soteria had potentially made in the address  in fact
hed paid a lower premium due to the address error  I didnt think Soteria needed to do
anymore. There wasnt anything to show it wouldnt have met a claim Mr B made  as it
accepted the claim he made with the address error in May 2021.
Mr B didnt accept my provisional decision. He believed he should receive a refund of the
premiums paid for the wrong address since 2017. He isnt sure Soteria would have accepted
a claim if it had been of a higher value.
Soteria provided new information. It said Mr B hadnt paid for dual insurance  and that his
previous policy lapsed in December 2017, not 2018  as it advised us in August 2021.
We told Mr B what Soteria said and asked - if he didnt agree - if he had any evidence to
show hed paid for dual insurance.
Mr B said he never said he had paid for dual insurance  his complaint was that he was
paying for a policy covering an address he wasnt living at.
I issued a second provisional decision and no longer intended to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Based on the information available, I thought Soteria had provided cover for the wrong risk 
address  but that Mr B had paid less for the insurance. There was no evidence he had paid 
for dual cover at any time. And when he made a claim, Soteria accepted it even though the 
address was wrong. So I didnt think Mr B had been prejudiced by the error in the risk 
address as hed actually paid less for cover.
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he says he paid for a service he didnt receive. So the case 
has been passed back to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2021 Soteria told us that Mr B paid for insurance from December 2006 until
December 2018 for a policy covering risk address K. But its since provided a screenshot to
show that this policy lapsed a year before  in December 2017.
Im satisfied from the documents Ive seen that from December 2006 to December 2017 Mr
B paid for insurance under the risk address of K which was correct. However, the letters
were sent to address X.
In November 2017 Mr B seems to have bought a policy which was set up with the risk
address of X. As Soteria was using this address to send Mr B letters about his policy with the
risk address of K since 2006, I think this shows Soteria had a record of both addresses
before Mr B called in 2017.
As Soteria cant provide evidence of the sales call in November 2017, it isnt possible to
decide if the error in address was caused by Soteria or Mr B.
Soteria says the premium to insure address K was more than to insure address X. So it says
Mr B paid less for cover since December 2017 than he should have. But as it cannot show
how the error occurred, it hasnt asked Mr B to pay the difference.
I understand Mr B believes he should have a refund for the premium he paid from December
2017 to June 2021. But I dont agree.
Although the investigator found that Mr B hadnt derived from any benefit because the wrong
property was insured, when Mr B made his claim in May 2021, Soteria accepted the claim
and updated Mr Bs address. I see no reason why it wouldnt have done the same if Mr B
had made a claim at any point between December 2017 and May 2021. The actions of 
Soteria dont support the view that Mr B paid for cover that he wouldnt have derived any 
benefit from. And it seems that as well as Soteria accepting the claim, Mr B has benefitted from the error in the risk address - as he paid a lower premium from December 2017 to May 
2021.
So overall I dont think Soteria needs to do any more. I cant see that Mr B has been
prejudiced by the error in address. The evidence shows Soteria accepted a claim despite the
error  and Mr B paid a lower premium due to the address error since December 2017.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman