DRN-2730583
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.  
What happened
In May 2019 Miss S was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a finance 
agreement with Black Horse.
Miss S experienced several issues with the car within the first 6 months and raised a 
complaint. Her concerns included:
Drivers side carpet cut
Test screen monitor going blank and freezing
Ratchet lever for middle three seats not working
Chip in bonnet
Chrome trim at bottom of window out of line
Rubber seal in boot leaking
These issues were investigated by Black Horse and a final decision was issued on 31 
October 2019. Miss S accepted the outcome and most of the issues were resolved.
In March 2020 Miss S experienced further issues with the car. These included a knocking 
noise from the engine and an oil leak. The main dealer advised Miss S that she needed to 
replace the engine, the clutch and the gearbox. It also found an oil leak. The main dealer 
said that because the car hadnt been serviced in line with the manufacturers 
recommendation, the repairs wouldnt be covered under the warranty so Miss S would have 
to pay for the repairs herself.
Miss S complained to Black Horse. In response it said there wasnt enough evidence to 
show that the issues were present at the point of supply, and that they were more likely to be 
due to wear and tear as Miss s had covered 45,000 miles in the first year of ownership.
Miss S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. Shes since paid to 
have the necessary repairs carried out because she needs the car for her business. But 
since then the car has developed other issues and now, she wants to reject it.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that although the car had covered significant 
mileage when the faults occurred, it was only one year old. The investigator didnt think that 
a reasonable person would expect a brand-new car to break down and require the 
replacement of integral parts at this age and mileage. He said Miss S should be allowed to 
reject the car.
Black Horse asked for details of the repairs which had been carried out and paid for by Miss 
S. Repair invoices were provided. Following this, Black Horse said it didnt agree with the 
investigators view. It said the repairs carried out related to the clutch and flywheel, which it 
said were wear and tear items, and that the clutch was likely to have been worn out due to 
the significant mileage covered by Miss S and the stop/start urban use of the car as a taxi. 
Black Horse said it hadnt been made aware of any issue with the door and hadnt had the 
opportunity to investigate and responds to this aspect of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Black Horse supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable. It includes fitness for purpose, appearance, safety and durability.
Id expect a brand-new car  such as that supplied to Miss S  to be of a very high standard, 
as opposed to a second-hand car where a degree of wear and tear is to be expected.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and its generally up 
to the business to put things right. This is relevant to this complaint, because I can see that 
Miss S previously made a complaint about faults with the car which was upheld, and repairs 
were carried out. Under the legislation Ive mentioned, the business is allowed one 
opportunity to repair a car which is of unsatisfactory quality.
Ive looked at the information regarding the further issues which Miss S experienced with the 
car. In order to determine whether the car was of satisfactory quality, Ive taken into account 
the inspection, the repair invoices and what Black Horse and Miss S have said.
Miss S reported the car breaking down in April 2020. At this point the car was 1 year old and 
had covered around 45,000 miles.
A main dealer inspected the car and found a crankshaft fault and an oil leak. It advised Miss 
S that the engine, clutch and gearbox required replacement. It also explained why it wouldnt 
cover the cost of repairs. The car wasnt repaired but was returned to Miss S and in August 
2020, when she had saved enough money, Miss S had the car repaired. The garage who 
carried out the repairs said the engine didnt need replacing but replaced the flywheel and 
clutch and repaired the oil leak. Miss S paid £1,818.06 for the repairs.
I appreciate that the car hadnt been serviced in line with the manufacturers 
recommendations. Theres a dispute as to why the service was carried out late, but I dont 
think this is relevant to my decision, because theres no evidence that the late service 
caused the clutch to fail.
Ive taken account of Black Horses comments about harder use of the clutch due to urban 
driving and stop/start use of the car as a taxi. But I still dont think its reasonable to expect to 
replace the clutch on a car which is only 1 year old with 45,000 miles on the clock. There 
was a significant at period of time between April 2020- September 2020 when Miss S wasnt 
able to use the car at all, so the car hadnt been in use for all of the 12 months.
Taking everything into account, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality for reasons of 
durability.  Putting things right
Because the business has already had the opportunity to repair the car, the relevant 
legislation allows Miss S to reject it now.
I appreciate that Miss S has already paid for repairs. And Ive considered whether it would 
be a reasonable resolution to ask Black Horse to refund the cost of these repairs, with Miss 
S retaining the car. However, Miss S has already had one complaint about the satisfactory 
quality of the car resolved in her favour, with repairs being carried out by the business. 
Because Ive found that the car is of unsatisfactory quality for reason of durability, I think the 
fairest way to resolve the complaint is to ask Black Horse to refund the cost of repairs and 
allow Miss S to reject the car. I say this because Im of the view that Miss s should have 
been able to reject the car when she experienced the issue with the clutch. She was left in 
the position where she had to arrange and pay for the repairs because Black Horse refused 
to do so, and she needed the car for her business.
I can see that Miss S wasnt able too use the car between April 2020 and September 2020 
because she didnt have the money to pay for repairs. This was a difficult time for Miss S 
because she uses the car as a taxi, and this is her only source of income. So, she wasnt 
able to work during this time and shes suffered financially as a result.  Because of this, I 
think its fair to ask Black Horse to refund the payments made by Miss S between April  
September 2020 and to pay compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused as a 
result of having been supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Black Horse Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay 
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss S
Refund the deposit of £500 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund all monthly payments made by Miss S between April  September 2020 and pay 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Reimburse Miss S the cost of repairs of £1818.06 and pay 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £300 for trouble and upset
Remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file relating to the agreement 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman