DRN-3712324
The complaint
Mr W complains because Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt paid a claim for permanent 
disability under his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr W held a travel insurance policy, provided by Aviva. Unfortunately, while on holiday
abroad, Mr W had an accident and was injured. On his return to the UK, Mr W was
hospitalised and continued to suffer physical effects from the accident. Aviva told Mr W that
he could make a claim under the permanent disability section of his policy if he was still
experiencing difficulties after one year from the date of his accident.
Mr W sent a claim form to Aviva in late July 2019, explaining that he was retired. In October
2019 Aviva said it would need Mr Ws GPs records and also asked Mr W to provide medical
evidence that he would be prevented from all work if he was of working age, solely and
directly as a result of his accident and subsequent injuries. In December 2019, Aviva
received Mr Ws GPs records as well as a letter from Mr Ws GP setting out some
information about his condition.
In June 2020, Aviva contacted the consultant that Mr W had seen most recently to ask for a
report on Mr Ws condition. The consultant said he couldnt answer the queries as he wasnt
Mr Ws treating clinician when he was undergoing rehabilitation following his injury. In
September 2020, Aviva wrote to a different consultant asking the same question. That
consultant replied to say he would need to meet with Mr W again before submitting a report.
In November 2020, Aviva wrote to Mr W to say that he didnt meet the policy definition of
disablement which meant that he was permanently and entirely prevented from following
any occupation. Mr W disputed this so Aviva reviewed the claim again and, in January 2021,
Aviva said it would need Mr W to have an independent medical examination (IME). Mr W
again disputed this.
In April 2021, Aviva sent Mr W a final response saying his claim was declined because he
had a history of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) which was likely to be a significant factor in the 
presentation of his condition. Aviva reiterated its offer for Mr W to have an IME.
Unhappy, Mr W brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She said she didnt think Mr W was
eligible to claim for permanent disability, as he wasnt working at the time of his accident.
However, she recommended that Aviva should pay Mr W £600 compensation for the
distress and inconvenience hed experienced. Our investigator said this was because it
should have been apparent to Aviva from the outset that Mr W wasnt eligible to claim.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators findings. Aviva didnt either. Aviva said the scope of
cover under the permanent disability section of Mr Ws policy wasnt limited to those who
worked and, if a person was retired  as Mr W was at the time of his accident  the test
would be whether that person was able to undertake any job. Aviva said if the correct
medical evidence in support of the policy criteria was provided it would accept the claim. In
relation to our investigators compensation recommendation, Aviva said it didnt agree that it
had falsely raised Mr Ws expectations, as it wouldnt have declined the claim because he
was retired.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, Mr Ws complaint was referred to me. I made my 
provisional decision in August 2022. In it, I said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also
say an insurer must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and
provide appropriate information on its progress. Ive taken these rules into account when
making my provisional decision about Mr Ws complaint.
Mr Ws claim
The terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy, under the heading Accidental death or
permanent disability, say Aviva will:
cover you if you suffer a serious accidental bodily injury during your trip which
requires immediate and urgent medical attention and leads solely, directly and
independently of any other cause to:

disablement which means that you are permanently and entirely prevented from
following any occupation suited to your education, experience and capability and this
disablement has lasted for at least one year from the date you sustained the injury, or
has been confirmed as permanent with no prospect of improvement by the treating
doctor.
Aviva has never sought to decline Mr Ws claim on the basis that he was retired at the time
of the accident and Aviva has said this doesnt make Mr W ineligible to claim. As Mr Ws
eligibility to claim on this basis isnt in dispute, its not necessary for me to make a finding on
this point.
Instead, Aviva has said Mr W hasnt provided medical evidence to show that he is:
permanently and entirely prevented from following any occupation (either lasting for
at least one year from the date of his accident or permanently, with no prospect of
improvement); and
that this has resulted solely and directly from the accident, and independently of any
other cause (i.e. Mr Ws AS).
Its not part of my role to reach my own medical conclusions about Mr Ws medical condition
or to substitute expert medical opinion with my own. When making my provisional decision,
Ive considered whether I think Avivas current position is fair and reasonable based on the
available medical evidence in this case.
Mr Ws GP, in a report dated 16 December 2019, said:
Prior to this accident he was well and mobile in spite of the pre-existing ankylosing
spondylitis I referred him to a rheumatologist to review his ankylosing spondylitis in
case this was the cause of his symptoms. It was subsequently discovered that thesymptoms were due to the injuryThis is the stage he is at now some 18 months
following the original accident and although he has made a small amount of progress
it is extremely unlikely that he will get significantly better in the future. He would
therefore be completely unable to carry out the activities that he was previously
engaged in. This would include work were he to be in that role.
I appreciate this medical evidence states that Mr Ws AS was discovered not to be the cause
of his symptoms and that Mr W would be unable to work. But, when considering claims of
this type, an insurer would generally expect to see evidence from a treating consultant
setting out their expert medical opinion about the policyholders abilities and/or the impact of
any pre-existing medical conditions on these abilities. I dont think this is unreasonable and I
wouldnt generally expect an insurer to accept a claim of this nature based on a GP
statement alone. A consultant is a specialist in their field, so their expert medical opinion
therefore carries significant persuasive weight.
Aviva did seek reports from two of Mr Ws consultants (albeit after what I think was a
significant delay, which Ive addressed in more detail later in this provisional decision), but
these werent forthcoming. So, Aviva instead asked Mr W to have an IME.
I think Aviva is reasonably entitled to request an IME. The terms and conditions of Mr Ws
policy say:
When there is a claim for injury or illness, we may ask for, and will pay for, any
insured person to be medically examined on our behalf.
Its for Mr W to demonstrate that he has a valid claim under his policy and that he meets the
criteria for a permanent disability benefit to be paid to him. I understand Mr W feels the letter
from his GP, together with his medical records (including previous consultants letters)
demonstrates that he was unable to work and that his AS was dormant. But, based on the
medical information Ive seen, Im afraid I dont agree. Although Mr Ws AS is described as
quiescent in one report, in other records Mr Ws AS was noted as moderate, giving brittle,
poor quality bone, which are likely to break, and a post-accident report noted classic
features of longstanding ankylosing spondylitis. A post-accident X-ray also recorded
Appearances are consistent with Ankylosing Spondylitis. No definite bone injury is seen.
Overall, based on the medical evidence Ive seen, I dont think its unfair or unreasonable in
the circumstances for Aviva to require a further medical opinion in the form of an IME
commenting on Mr Ws ability to follow any occupation, as well as confirmation of whether
Mr Ws AS contributed to his condition or whether this was solely and directly as a result of
his accident.
I appreciate Mr W has concerns about the accuracy of an IME now, given the length of time
that has passed. I think Aviva should have considered requesting an IME much sooner 
which Ive elaborated on in more detail below. And, I understand Mr W was initially unable to
attend an IME as he was shielding due to Covid-19. However, I dont see any reason why an
IME wouldnt involve consideration of Mr Ws medical records and result in an expert
medical opinion about Mr Ws condition following (and progress since) his accident. I
understand Mr Ws condition may have improved somewhat since this claim was first made
in 2019, but an IME can take this into account. Overall, I dont currently think it would be fair
or reasonable to ask Aviva to pay Mr Ws claim based on the available medical evidence and
I think Mr Ws attendance at an IME is the means through which this claim can reasonably
be progressed.
If Mr W decides to proceed with the IME, hell need to correspond directly with Aviva about
this going forward. And, if Mr W is unhappy with any eventual claims decision made by Avivafollowing any IME, he would be entitled to make a new complaint about the matter.
This means I dont currently intend to direct Aviva to do anything further in respect of Mr Ws
claim.
Avivas handling of Mr Ws claim
Aviva didnt deal with this claim as Id have expected it to. I dont think it progressed the
claim promptly, and I dont think it kept Mr W updated as it should have.
Mr W first made his claim in July 2019. When Mr W contacted Aviva for an update in
October 2019, Avivas records show the claim had slipped through the crack. Avivas
records show Mr W had to chase Aviva numerous times for updates throughout the course
of the claim. In particular, during the period December 2019 to June 2020, Aviva seems to
have made no significant progress in dealing with the matter.
When Mr Ws medical records were first reviewed by Avivas medical officer in December
2019, his AS was noted as:
to likely be a significant factor in his presentation, in the way that he has sustained
an unstable spinal fracture after a fall  , that we may consider not to have been
expected to have caused such significant injury in a patient without AS.
However, no further action appears to have been taken by Aviva in terms of making specific
enquiries about this issue. The first time Mr W was clearly informed of his AS potentially
impacting the claim wasnt until well over a year later, on 8 April 2021.
Mr Ws GPs letter dated 16 December 2019 was received by Aviva on 18 December 2019
but doesnt appear to have been reviewed until March 2020. In both March 2020 and May
2020 Avivas medical officer recommended contacting Mr Ws consultants for a medical
report but this wasnt actioned until June 2020. When Aviva eventually contacted the first
consultant, it didnt notify Mr W of this in advance and Mr W subsequently told Aviva he
wasnt surprised that this consultant couldnt answer Avivas queries, as that consultant was
never involved in Mr Ws treatment following his accident.
A letter from the second consultant relating to Mr Ws claim was received by Aviva in July
2020 but wasnt actioned and reviewed until September 2020. It then took Aviva until
January 2021 to request that Mr W attend an IME. In my opinion, Avivas notes indicate quite
clearly that the IME request was only made based on the potential involvement of our
service in Mr Ws complaint.
Overall, I think Avivas delays in progressing this claim were undue and excessive, and I
think Aviva could reasonably have explored the possibility of requesting an IME and/or
specifically investigating the potential impact of Mr Ws AS on his claim much sooner than it
did. I also think Aviva failed to provide Mr W with appropriate information on the progress of
his claim at reasonable intervals, which meant Mr W had to repeatedly chase Aviva for
updates. And, when Aviva did communicate with Mr W, I think it could have been clearer
about what medical information it needed, and why.
Im satisfied that Avivas handling of this claim caused Mr W significant distress and
inconvenience. I think Aviva should pay Mr W compensation to reflect the impact of its
actions on him, and I currently think a payment of £500 compensation would be fair and
reasonable in the circumstances.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision. Mr W responded in some detail. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken everything Mr W has said into account. I understand Mr W says he was told by 
one consultant that he had good bone density, and that another consultant didnt support the 
findings of the x-ray which I quoted. I also understand that Mr W says his GPs letter dated 
16 December 2019 was passing on the comments of a consultant. But, based on the 
medical evidence which Ive seen, I remain persuaded that an IME is necessary for Aviva to 
fairly assess the claim.  
Mr W says he has never refused or disputed IME involvement and is happy to undertake an 
independent assessment. I understand the process of arranging an IME has now begun. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, any potential dispute about any eventual claims 
decision following an IME would need to be the subject of a new complaint. 
I agree with many of the points which Mr W has reiterated about Avivas handling of his 
claim. I understand Mr W provided the information he was asked for and that Aviva said it 
would get in contact with other parties if required. I also understand that Aviva failed to 
contact who Mr W says are two key consultants for reports, didnt tell Mr W that it hadnt 
received a report from one consultant and didnt follow up with a different consultant who 
had offered to see Mr W and produce a report. I note that Mr W says Aviva changed both its 
reasons for declining his claim and its interpretation of the policy. 
I took Avivas overall handling of this claim into account when making my provisional award 
of £500 compensation. An award at this level falls into the category of compensation which 
wed consider is warranted for the impact of mistakes which have caused significant 
inconvenience and considerable distress. 
Im satisfied that an award of £500 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for the overall impact of Avivas actions on Mr W.  
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited needs to put things right by paying Mr W £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it that Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman