DRN-2777649
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) delayed the transfer of his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and he lost out financially.
What happened
Mr M said that his new provider submitted a request to SL transfer his SIPP on 15 October 
2019. SL started to sell the funds into cash on 18 October 2019 and the funds were 
reinvested with the new provider on 18th November 2019.  As a result of the delay he had 
lost out by about £15,000.
SL said it received the transfer request on 15 October 2019. At the time all investments were 
in the pre pension part of his SIPP and the request was to transfer in cash. It placed 
instructions to encash on 18 October and these were completed on 25 October 2019. Its 
service level agreement says they have a maximum of 10 working days to implement the 
transfer. On 4 November Mr M made a request for tax free cash so the transfer was put on 
hold to allow this to happen. The tax-free cash was paid, and the new provider was advised 
on 6 November they would need to make a new transfer request and the funds were now in 
both pre and post retirement parts of the SIPP. A new transfer request was issued on 6 
November and instruction to terminate and transfer the SIPP issued by SL on 7 November. 
The transfer proceeds were paid on 12 November  which was 3 working days after 
termination of the policy.
It said each part of the transfer and drawdown request was completed within the service 
level agreement. It didnt think the time taken was unreasonable. It felt the timescales met 
the expectations this service had.
The investigator didnt think SL had caused any unreasonable delay. He thought it was 
reasonable to conclude that the request to take tax free cash added 3 days (4,5 and 6 
November) to the time taken, otherwise the transfer wouldve gone ahead on 7 November 
2019. While it might have been done faster the issue, he needed to consider was whether 
the time actually taken was reasonable. He didnt think the 10-working day time period for 
transfer was unreasonable. He said that Mr M couldve avoided time out of the market by 
requesting an in-specie transfer.
Mr M didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered whether I think SL caused unreasonable delay in the transfer of Mr Ms 
SIPP. 
I need to consider the time taken for each step and whether they were reasonable but 
having regard to the service standard the business works to and whether it has adhered to 
them. 
I have therefore considered what happened during the transfer process.
Tuesday 15 October 2019
Friday 18 October encashment starts
Friday 25 October funds ready to transfer, start of maximum 10-day transfer period which 
would expire on 8 November 2019
Monday 4 November (6 working days into the 10-day transfer period) Mr M requests tax free 
cash which is then paid.
Wednesday 6 November new transfer request submitted
Thursday 7 November the pension is terminated ready for transfer.
Tuesday 12 November funds transferred to the new provider by CHAPS payment
Monday 18 November Mr M says the money is reinvested with the new provider.
SL said that it normally works to a service standard of 5 working days to switch investments 
to cash. In fact, this step was completed within 3 working days treating 15 October as day 
zero.
It said that once a sale request is placed it takes 5 working days to settle. The majority of Mr 
Ms funds settled on 24 October which was 4 working days. The final position to have the 
cash paid was available on 25 October.
It said that the transfer request was placed using the Origo transfer system which would 
have required a cash transfer.
SL confirmed it complied with its service standards throughout and but for the request for 
cash received on 4 November it would have been paid by the 10th working day.
I think it is reasonable to assume that had there not been a request for cash on 4 November 
the transfer would have completed within the required service standard. That would mean 
the total period would have been 10 working days from the point at which funds were 
encashed.
From the evidence supplied it doesnt seem that there was an unreasonable delay by SL and 
the money was paid out using the bank transfer system. It seems however that the request 
for tax free cash did extend the time for the transfer, but that wasnt SLs fault.
Mr Ms adviser said he didnt suggest a sale to cash prior to the transfer as they wanted to 
stay invested as long as possible. By not selling to cash it left SL in charge of the process. If 
they had sold to cash first, he was concerned it would have extended the 15 working day 
turnaround time and the time out of the market. He also said that Mr M used a discretionary 
fund management process and in specie transfers can take up to 6 months to complete and 
mean that they couldnt make changes to the portfolio during that time. Mr M needed the 
money withdrawn on 6 November and based on the turnaround times for SL it was clear the 
transfer funds would not be available in time. 
It seems likely that Mr M couldve reduced the time taken to complete the transfer had he 
requested to take cash after the transfer took place. It seems that requesting cash part way through the transfer process complicated and delayed the transfer but that isnt SLs fault 
and Mr M had his own reasons for needing the cash at that point in time.
Based on the evidence provided it does not seem to me that there was any unreasonable 
delay by SL. I say that because it has shown that it complied with its service standards 
throughout the process. So, I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman