DRN-3637693
Complaint
Mr G has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr G with a loan for £1,000.00 in August 2018. This loan was due to 
be repaid in 18 monthly instalments of around £89. One of our adjudicators reviewed what 
Mr G and Likely Loans had told us. And she thought that Likely Loans hadnt done anything 
wrong or treated Mr G unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr Gs complaint be upheld. 
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Gs complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Likely Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr G could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Gs application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr G could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr G has his loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr G and Likely Loans have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Likely Loans has suggested it carried out credit searches 
and these showed that Mr G had some existing credit commitments which were relatively 
well maintained at the time. Its also worth noting that the monthly repayments required for 
this loan were low and the period of repayment relatively short. And Mr G also appears to 
have been asked about details of his income and expenditure which suggested that the 
monthly repayments were affordable to.
I accept that Mr G appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information Likely Loans 
obtained. But even if I accept that Likely Loans checks ought to have gone into the depth   
Mr G appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements in the same 
way a mortgage provider would  weve not been provided with this information despite 
asking for it. And crucially weve not been provided with anything else which clearly shows 
the loan payments were demonstrably unaffordable either. 
Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender 
did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr G is suggesting  and even then we havent been provided with 
anything which demonstrates the loan was obviously unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend 
to Mr G - it carried out a number of checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, I dont think that doing more 
would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr G unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr G. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman