DRN-2204923
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain Nationwide Building Society failed to instruct the provider to cancel 
their existing life assurance policy when it reviewed their cover.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr and Mrs T applied for a mortgage with Nationwide. At the same time, they 
received life assurance advice from the mortgage consultant they saw.
Mr and Mrs T took out a new decreasing term assurance policy (DTA). It was agreed it 
would replace an existing DTA policy Mr T held with the same provider which no longer 
provided enough cover. 
But on reviewing their cover again in 2019 it was established the wrong policy had been 
cancelled. Instead, a level term assurance policy (LTA) held by Mr T had been cancelled 
leaving him with two DTA policies in place.  
Mr and Mrs T complained to Nationwide. They didnt think Nationwide had done what had 
been agreed at the time in 2017.
Nationwide investigated Mr and Mrs Ts concerns and agreed its mortgage consultant 
shouldve specified the correct policy number that was to be replaced to the provider. In 
recognition that its mortgage consultant couldve been clearer it paid Mr and Mrs T £100 by 
way of apology.
But Nationwide said it hadnt been able to evidence its mortgage consultant had given the 
provider the wrong policy number which led to the cancellation of Mr Ts LTA, so it didnt 
think it needed to do anymore.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy, so they brought their complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into things. He established the incorrect policy number was given to the 
provider by Mr T when hed called them shortly after the meeting with Nationwide. He found 
the provider had emailed Nationwides mortgage consultant to obtain the policy details but 
had no record of a response.
Our investigator said he thought Nationwide should have provided the correct policy details 
to the provider. And had they done, the error which caused the wrong policy to be cancelled 
would not have happened. He said Nationwide should:
cancel Mr Ts DTA policy which should have been cancelled in 2017
reinstate Mr Ts LTA policy which was cancelled in 2017 in error
refund any differences in the premiums paid
pay Mr and Mrs T £100
Nationwide didnt agree with our investigator. It said it was Mr and Mrs Ts responsibility to 
cancel any existing policies they no longer needed. Nationwide also said it couldnt reinstate 
the previous policy due to the time that had past, nor could it cancel a policy on behalf of    
Mr T. And it confirmed Mr and Mrs T had already been paid £100.
Mr and Mrs T also said our investigators suggestions to put things right wouldnt be possible 
as Mr T had since reviewed his policies to ensure he had the right cover in place.
As the complaint could not be resolved, it has come to me for a decision. I let both              
Mr and Mrs T and Nationwide know my initial thoughts. I said unless any new information 
changed my mind I was likely to reach the same outcome our investigator had reached. But I 
said I didnt agree with the proposed actions suggested Nationwide should take to put things 
right.
Instead I said I thought Nationwide should:
Reimburse the difference in premiums per month paid from October 2017 to
March 2020 for the decreasing term policy which should have been cancelled as 
opposed to the level term policy which was cancelled in error.
Reimburse the difference in premiums per month paid from April 2020 to the
date of settlement for Mr Ts new policy taken out to replace the policy cancelled in 
error. In addition, Nationwide should pay an amount to cover the difference in 
premium until his original policy end date in February 2032.
Nationwide should also pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date of
any premiums already paid to the date of settlement. This isnt needed for any 
compensation for future payments. If Nationwide deducts tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs T with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
Nationwide responded to say it didnt agree with my initial thoughts. It also said it had no 
further evidence or comments to provide. Mr and Mrs T also confirmed they had nothing 
further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide say the protection recommendation document Mr and Mrs T completed at the 
time of the sale made it clear it was their responsibility to cancel any pre-existing cover. And 
that by Mr T subsequently contacting the provider to do as had been agreed he provided 
them with the incorrect policy number to be cancelled. As such Nationwide say it cant be 
held to account for the error.
However in its final response letter Nationwide acknowledged its mortgage consultant 
shouldve specified the policy number to be replaced on the application at the time. And I 
agree.
Id be minded to agree that Mr and Mrs T were required to cancel any existing policies 
themselves if those policies were held elsewhere. But they werent. Mr and Mrs Ts original 
policies were with the same provider as the new policy that was recommended  and also 
taken out through Nationwide  so the details were available to the Nationwides mortgage 
consultant at the time.
I think its clear the application prompted the mortgage consultant to add the policy details. It 
asked, Are any of the policies on this application replacing an existing policy or policies held 
with the same provider?. It then allowed for the mortgage consultant to add any policy 
numbers - but he didnt. This led to the provider contacting Nationwides mortgage 
consultant after reviewing the application to obtain the missing information. I understand its 
not possible for Nationwide to check if their mortgage consultant responded  he no longer 
works for it. But on balance Im satisfied he didnt. I say this because had he done, the provider wouldve had the correct policy details and wouldnt have needed to ask Mr T for 
that information.
Having listened to the call Mr T made to the provider I dont agree he did so for the reason
concluded by Nationwide. Instead, Im satisfied Mr Ts primary instruction was to inform
them the activation date for his new policy. This is understandable as it was information not
known at the time of application.
It was later during the same call Mr T mentioned the provider had told Mrs T it needed the
details of the policy to be cancelled. The providers advisor confirmed Nationwide had told 
them the new policy was to replace an old one but didnt know the policy number. It was at 
this point Mr T provided the wrong policy number.
But had Nationwides mortgage consultant done what Id have expected him to and, as
Nationwide have acknowledged he should have done, I find it reasonable to conclude the 
provider would more likely than not already have held the details of the policy to be 
cancelled. As such there wouldnt have been a need for Mr T to have provided them at all.
Mr T has told us hes since taken out a new policy to ensure he had the right level of cover in 
place. Mr T took out a new level term policy with the same provider in March 2020 providing 
the same amount of cover to him as his original policy. This persuades me that its important 
for him to have the cover in place. But the premiums for Mr Ts new policy are more than the 
original cover he had held.
It follows I find that Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs T back in to the position they would 
have been in had the correct policy been cancelled. But I acknowledge Nationwide arent 
able to reinstate the cancelled policy, so Ive detailed what I consider to be a fair a 
reasonable resolution below.
Nationwide have already paid Mr and Mrs T £100 for the failings in service provided by its 
mortgage consultant. On this matter and in addition to my further instructions, Im satisfied 
this amount fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by the circumstances of 
this complaint.  
Putting things right
In order to put things right, I instruct Nationwide to:
Reimburse the difference in premiums per month paid from October 2017 to
March 2020 for the decreasing term policy which should have been cancelled as 
opposed to the level term policy which was cancelled in error.
Reimburse the difference in premiums per month paid from April 2020 to the
date of settlement for Mr Ts new policy taken out to replace the policy cancelled in 
error. In addition, Nationwide should pay an amount to cover the difference in 
premium until his original policy end date in February 2032.
Nationwide should also pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date of
any premiums already paid to the date of settlement. This isnt needed for any
compensation for future payments. If Nationwide deducts tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs T with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate.
Im aware had Mr Ts new policy been taken out to cover him until February 2032, to
match when his previous policy was due to expire, there may have been a reduction in the
monthly premium. Should Nationwide wish, they can obtain a comparative premium cost for a policy that covered Mr T for the same amount from March 2020 to run until February 2032 
and use this premium to calculate the difference between Mr Ts original policy had it been 
left to run (redress detailed in bullet point two above).
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and
require Nationwide Building Society to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman