DRN-3842455
The complaint
Mr B says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to transfer his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a Novia Self-
invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and recommend investments in high risk and specialist 
holdings was unsuitable.
Mr B is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
Mr B says that he was introduced to Portals services by his then defined benefits (DB) OPS 
provider in 2014. He was interested in releasing a Tax-Free Cash (TFC) lump sum from his 
pension. He didnt meet with an adviser face-to-face and all contact took place over the 
telephone or via email.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 2 April 2014, it recorded Mr Bs objectives as wanting 
to release TFC from his OPS, investing the residual funds because he didnt require an 
income at that time.
Mr B had deferred benefits from an OPS he was a member of with a former employer. Hed 
accrued around 10 years of service between 1988 and 1998. His benefits had a transfer 
value of around £127,000.
Portals recommendations were recorded in the following terms (bolding is my emphasis):
Having considered all of the information available to us including the charging structures of 
the transfers, available underlying fund choice, your personal circumstances and other 
factors, I have come to the following conclusions:
My recommendation is that:
-You transfer your [OPS] to an Income Drawdown Plan with the Novia Personal 
Pension.
-You switch your [OPS] to the Novia Personal Pension.
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the 
benefits available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the 
benefits that would have been available through your existing provider.
By following this recommendation, you will:
-Meet your stated Income Drawdown objectives
-Be able to take up to 25% of your Allied Domecq policies as a Tax Free Cash Lump 
Sum to meet your needs, you have selected to take £31,833.
-Meet your stated Pension Switch objectives
With this plan you do have the choice as to which funds your money is invested in and I 
have made recommendations for these as well.
Mr B accepted Portals recommendations. On 26 June 2014 his OPS funds were transferred 
to his new Novia SIPP. He took TFC of around £31,800. Portal charged 5% of the fund 
value, or £6,360, for its initial advice. After these deductions there was around £89,200 to 
invest.
Portal assessed Mr B as having a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. It recommended 
he invest around 60% of his residual pension pot in a series of mini-bonds.
MRL approached this Service in April 2021. It raised several concerns about what had 
happened to Mr B in 2014. For example, it said Portal had failed to meet its regulatory 
obligations when advising on the transfer of OPS benefits. The rationale for the transfer had 
been weak. And the investments made had been inappropriate. Essentially the transaction 
had been unsuitable.
Portal had sent Mr B its final response to his complaint on 17 November 2020. It argued hed 
brought his complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. An Investigator set out 
why we could look at the case, but Portal disagreed. So, the matter was passed to an 
Ombudsman for review. She concluded that we could look at Mr Bs complaint.
Portal didnt respond to the Ombudsmans decision. But to be clear, whenever a case comes 
to an Ombudsman for a decision on the merits of a case, they must still consider jurisdiction. 
Having done so I agree with the findings and conclusions set out by the Ombudsman in her 
letter of 8 June 2022. Theres little point in me rehearsing those arguments again. Portals 
main argument hinged on an annual review letter it said Mr B was sent. I think the following 
extract from the ombudsmans decision neatly summarises the position:
Portafina says Mr B ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from an annual 
review letter he was sent in August 2016. But I dont agree.
The overview says the value of his SIPP had increased by 3.19%. I can see the pack that 
accompanied the letter, which it says looks in greater detail at how the pension is 
performing, says that despite the impact of Brexit theres a positive outlook over the long 
term. And while it does say the performance of structured element of Mr Bs investments  
those hes now complaining were unsuitable  raises some concerns, it also goes on to say 
it isnt unduly worried, that its happy with the growth and confident this will grow by the 
targeted amount by the end of the specified investment period.
So I dont think theres anything in the letter to suggest there were any concerns relating to 
Mr Bs SIPP that might have alerted him to a problem. I think Mr B would have felt reassured 
by the information in it, rather than concerned. So I dont think he ought reasonably to have 
become aware he had cause for complaint from it.
I can see Mr Bs SIPP summary and valuations from August 2017 and June 2018 show it 
increased in overall value. Ive taken into account that the October 2019 valuation reflects a 
drop in overall value of just over 4% though, seemingly due to an 85% drop in the value of 
one of the investments that hes said was unsuitable for him. But, even if this ought 
reasonably to have given him cause for concern, this was within three years of when he 
complained to Portal and referred his complaint to our service. And I havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr B ought reasonably to have become aware he had cause for 
complaint before then.
This Service can consider Mr Bs case.
An Investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Bs case and issued her view on 16 
September 2022. She upheld it because she found Portals advice had been unsuitable. 
Portal failed to respond to the Investigators view and so his complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. Neither party provided new evidence or arguments and so I see no reason to depart from my initial findings and 
conclusions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Bs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
At the time of the advice Portal gave Mr B, COBS 19.1.6 made the following specific point 
about advising on a transfer from OPS schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who isa member of a defined benefits occupational pension 
schemewhether to transfera firm should start by assuming that a transferwill not be 
suitable. A firm should only then consider a transferto be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transferis in the client's best interests.
Under COBS 19.1.2, Portal was required to:
- Compare the benefits likely to be paid under the ceding arrangement with the 
benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement.
- Ensure that the comparison included enough information for Mr B to be able to make 
an informed decision.- Give Mr B a copy of the comparison, drawing his attention to the factors that do and 
dont support its personal recommendation, in good time.
- Take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr B understood its comparison and how it 
contributed towards the personal recommendation.
In simple terms, Portal had to assess the benefits likely to be paid and options available 
under the OPS and compare this with those available under the new arrangements 
proposed before it advised Mr B on what to do.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated 
investments, for example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client 
exposure to 3% to 5% of their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being 
suitable for unregulated investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was 
where up to 100% of a clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated 
collective investment scheme).
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why. 
There are a number of documents relating to Portals transaction with Mr B that are 
important to my consideration, these include the Pension Options Personal Financial 
Questionnaire (fact-find), the risk attitude questionnaire, the pension transfer analysis report 
and the suitability report.
At the time of Portals advice Mr B was 56 years old and his intention was said to have been 
to retire when he reached 66. His employment situation is somewhat confused, the fact-find 
suggests he was out of work, but also notes hed been with his current employer for three 
months. Mr B has told this Service he was in employment as an HGV driver earning around 
£30,000 a year.
Mr B lived in rented accommodation. The information Portal gathered about his household 
incomings and outgoings was scant, although the indication is these were in balance. He 
was said to have had £2,000 of savings, and was eating into these. He had a car loan, with a 
balance of £8,000 and credit card debt of around £10,000.
Portal hasnt set out its position on the merits of Mr Bs case. But to be fair, Ive considered 
some arguments it couldve made. For example, I note that before Portal issued its suitability 
report it had sent Mr B a letter on 21 March 2014 about being an insistent client.
Where a firm decides to transact with a customer on an insistent client basis, it should 
communicate with them:- In terms that are clear, fair and not misleading.
- Having regard for the information needs of the client such that the client is able to 
understand.
- That it hasnt recommended the transaction and that it will not be in accordance with 
the personal recommendation.
- The reasons why it isnt in accordance with that personal recommendation.
- The risks of the transaction proposed by the client.
- The reasons why it didnt recommend the transaction.
Portal also needed to obtain Mr Bs acknowledgement that the transaction wouldnt be in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by it; and the transaction was being 
carried out at his request. This acknowledgement shouldve been in Mr Bs own words.
Ive reviewed Portals approach to how it conducted business with Mr B as an insistent client. 
For example, Portal has provided the letter it sent Mr B, presumably shortly after it had first 
spoken to him and had secured information from his OPS providers about the benefits hed 
be giving up if he transferred his pension. It was a short letter in which it recommended he 
did not proceed. It said:
 You currently have a pension with [X] which has a transfer value of £127,332, from which 
you could release a total amount of £31,833 as a tax free lump sum. However, as the critical 
yield (growth rate required to match your guaranteed benefits with this provider) is 13.5% it 
would be against our recommendation to do this. Furthermore, you will be waiving your 
entitlement to a guaranteed pension of £6,508 per annum with a pension commencement 
cash lump sum of £43,385 which is payable at retirement age 65.
In the same short letter to Mr B, Portal immediately went on to say the following:
If you still wish to go-ahead with pension release, we can still help you with this. As this is 
against our recommendation, we now need you to complete and return the insistent client 
form confirming you are aware of the benefits you would be giving up.
I enclose a form with the various options available to you. Please can you complete and 
return both forms to us in the pre-paid envelope as soon as possible. Once we have this, I 
will arrange to send out all the relevant application forms and suitability report detailing our 
advice.
Attached to the letter was a form with two options  the first was to take TFC and reinvest 
the residual funds with Mr B being treated as an insistent client. The second option was to 
remain with his OPS, which it recommended. Portal also provided Mr B with an insistent 
client template letter to complete and return if he took the first option.
Mr B completed the forms provided by Portal to say he wanted to transfer his pension. Portal 
then wrote to him and provided a suitability report around 2 April 2014.
Ive thought carefully about what Portal did. I have several concerns about its insistent client 
process. And Ive concluded it was flawed. I say this because:
- While its communication with Mr B did set out its recommendation for him not to 
proceed with the transfer, this was seriously undermined by advice in the same short 
letter about how he could still go ahead. Portal shouldve provided a breathing space 
here.- I note that it would only send Mr B the suitability report after hed decided that he 
wanted to transfer his OPS. This undermines the process  how could he have been 
expected to take a fully informed decision without access to the analysis?
- The insistent client form Mr B signed was a template. It wasnt in his own words. It 
wouldve been clear to Portal that he had no knowledge or experience of financial 
matters. So, it wouldve been important to ensure he understood what he was getting 
into, and a good way to have done this wouldve been to see in his own words that 
he understood the recommendation being made and why he wanted to proceed.
- There are also various examples from Portals process of gaps in the information it 
held, or certainly that it provided Mr B, to enable him to make a fully informed 
decision. For example, what were the terms of his OPS. Many similar schemes allow 
early access to benefits, albeit often being actuarily reduced.
Further, Mr B says he doesnt remember signing an insistent client form  and Portal hasnt 
supplied such. He also says he doesnt know what an insistent client is. Ive concerns about 
his knowledge and experience of pensions and investments, which again shouldve put 
Portal on notice that it wouldnt be fair to treat him as an insistent client.
Given these failings it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude that the process Portal 
followed meant that Mr B can truly be regarded as an insistent client. Its communications 
werent clear or fair. It wasnt acting in his best interests. And it failed to act with due care 
and skill.
Portals position is further weakened when reviewing the suitability report it prepared for Mr 
B. This seems to be at odds with the letter it sent him in March 2014. I say this because the 
report recommends the transfer of Mr Bs OPS funds. And, it also says a reason for doing so 
was the possibility the new arrangements it was recommending would lead to his benefits 
exceeding those under his former scheme. Such a claim flies in the face of evidence such as 
the pension transfer analysis which indicated his new investments would need to achieve 
annual growth in excess of 13% to do this  a highly unlikely outcome.
Portals March 2014 letter recommending Mr B didnt proceed with the transfer of his OPS 
pension benefits  albeit offering him the insistent client route  cant be reconciled with its 
suitability report of 2 April 2014, which faces in the opposite direction in several key areas. 
This is another significant failing. It didnt provide Mr B with clear and consistent advice.
Mr B was a deferred member of an OPS. This had a transfer value of around £127,000. This 
was his only pension provision, aside from any state pension entitlement. When asking the 
question about funding his retirement, the answer recorded is state pension, personal 
pension (presumably the plan Portal went on to recommend) and inheritance.
While, in March 2014, Portal acknowledged the transfer of Mr Bs OPS wasnt suitable, there 
were failings in the advice process which meant he wasnt fully informed about his position 
and we dont know what effect fuller information and better analysis wouldve had on his 
decision making.
Mr Bs requirements were recorded by Portal as: building up savings; new car; clear some 
bill/debts. But Portal failed to conduct a detailed income and expenditure analysis. Theres 
no substantive input about options for the creation of an emergency fund and how large this 
should be (its often suggested 3-6 months of household expenditure is a good guide). 
Theres no information about how much he wanted to spend on a car. Nor what debts he 
was looking to clear.Portal hasnt provided a record of any discussion of why accessing his valuable OPS 
benefits was a better option than, say using his £2000 savings. Or considering the 
rescheduling of his debts  although I note Mr B has told us he didnt have any problems at 
the time in servicing his credit and loan.
Portals position is weak. Even if it had been in Mr Bs mind to access his TFC to build up 
savings, buy a car and pay down debt, it wouldve been obvious this was a questionable 
strategy. Theres no record it gave Mr B such advice.
Portal hasnt provided a record of what Mr Bs income requirements were in retirement. Ive 
seen no evidence of an attempt by it to get to the bottom of this fundamental question. It was 
focussed on Mr Bs short-terms wants and not his medium and long-term needs. It was 
dealing with his pension pot, so this wasnt appropriate in his circumstances.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr B about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for retirement. And certainly, when early access is contemplated there 
need to be compelling reasons, on balance I dont think that was the case here.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Bs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. Even though it 
initially recommended Mr B didnt transfer his benefits, I dont think its demonstrably met 
these obligations.
Turning to the need for Mr Bs Novia SIPP to provide an income in retirement. Leaving aside 
what we know in hindsight about the investment performance of the funds recommended to 
him by Portal, I have various concerns about its advice here.
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr B wasnt an investment professional. Nor 
was he a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him.
Portal conducted a risk questionnaire with Mr B. The suitability report set out the position 
arrived at. It said:
Based on the answers you provided in your risk profile we believe you have moderately 
adventurous attitude to risk. This broadly means:
-Moderately Adventurous investors typically have moderate to high levels of financial 
knowledge and will usually keep up to date on financial issues. They will usually be 
fairly experienced investors, who have used a range of investment products in the 
past.
-In general, Moderately Adventurous investors are willing to take on investment risk 
and understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are 
willing to take risk with a substantial proportion of their available assets.
-Moderately Adventurous investors will usually take gambles where they see the 
potential rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their 
minds on financial matters quite quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their 
decisions turn out badly, they are usually able to accept that occasional poor 
outcomes are a necessary part of long-term investment.
Ive several concerns about the risk assessment process Portal conducted. Bearing in mind 
what we are told about the traits of a moderately adventurous investor in the definition provided. As the Investigator noted, Mr Bs responses captured on the Pension Options 
Personal Financial Questionnaire are dissonant with this. For example:
- His friends and family would describe him as a cautious person
- He didnt understand investment matters at all
- He was not comfortable investing in the stock market or property
- He preferred safer investments even if it meant lower returns
Theres no evidence that Portal discussed the contradictions and tensions in its assessment 
of Mr Bs risk outlook. It didnt do enough to demonstrate its assessed attitude to risk was 
correct. Its clearly too high. However, Portal pressed on, it recommended 60% of his 
residual funds were invested in a series of mini-bonds, it described as follows:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC
Secured on a successfully trading UK Holiday village in Cornwall, England. The proceeds of 
this bond are being used by the developer to build new holiday villas and an apart hotel to 
satisfy the increasing tourist demand. The Bond term is five years with 11% interest paid 
annually in arrears and then every 3 months from year 2. 70% of all sales will be held in 
escrow to pay back the loan interest and the loan.
Real Estate Investments USA PLC
Secured on US residential property (mainly in Florida, Chicago and Detroit) which is being 
bought back from banks, refurbished and sold to onward pre-determined investors. The 
Bond pays 15% per annum, paid annually in arrears and has a term of 5 years. All interest 
and capital is lent denominated in sterling so there is no direct currency risk.
Strategic Residential Developments PLC
The Bond term is for 5 years, with 11% paid annually in arrears. Loaned monies are used to 
source and purchase existing houses in the South of England with potential development 
plots within their grounds, using a sophisticated software programme, plots which will then 
be sold separately and developed. Security will be taken over these houses once purchased 
and released when sold.
Tambaba Developments PLC
The Bond term is 7 years with 11% interest paid annually deferred initially until year 2. 
Loaned monies will be used to develop the site completing infrastructure works and building 
villas and bungalows for mostly local purchasers at the Tambaba Country Club Resort in the 
state of Paraiba, North East Brazil. Security is taken over the Tambaba development site 
(minimum value of 150% of any loan) with all capital lent and paid back into sterling.
As well as creating a lack of diversification in how Mr Bs funds were being invested, Portal 
has failed to show that he wouldve understood what it was getting him into. It knew he 
actually had limited knowledge and experience of investment and pension matters. 
This approach flew in the face of regulatory obligations on Portal that Ive already set out at 
some length.
Im also concerned that Portal didnt get to grips with Mr Bs capacity for loss. Although he 
had another 10 years or so before his recorded planned retirement date, he was being 
advised to transfer his only pension provision and to invest in a high-risk portfolio. He had no 
other assets or savings to fall back on.
Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its investment 
recommendations than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Bs best interests 
concerning his valuable pension funds.Portal was being paid a lot of money to provide best advice to Mr B. Those charges are 
another area of concern. Its recorded that he was charged 5% of the transfer value for the 
initial transaction. And there was a 1% ongoing advice fee for Portal. There were also fees 
for the SIPP provider. And there were management fees associated with the funds he was 
investing in.
Portal failed to provide a clear comparison of the charges he would incur in the new 
arrangements with his former pension plans. While it did note the new arrangement would 
be more expensive, I dont think that was sufficiently transparent.
Portal shouldve provided Mr B with fully formed and unequivocal advice not to proceed with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits into a Novia SIPP, the purpose of which was to access his 
TFC and invest in a high-risk portfolio. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its advice 
process; what it knew about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; and his lack of 
experience of the sort of investments it was recommending.
Instead, Portal failed to conduct a satisfactory insistent client process with Mr B. And it 
recommended that his OPS benefits be invested beyond his risk appetite. It knew this and 
the potential consequences. The funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr B might have difficulty 
getting access to his pension funds. The investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and 
reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation uncertainty.
I cant see that accessing his TFC was a pressing concern for Mr B. If he really needed to 
access finance, potentially better alternatives werent properly explored by Portal. Nor was 
there a convincing assessment of his retirement income requirements.
I think that if Portal had given Mr B appropriate advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with 
the transfer of his OPS benefits to the Novia SIPP and the high-risk investment portfolio it 
proposed. Its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received.
To conclude I dont think the transfer of Mr Bs OPS into the Novia SIPP and the investment 
in the high-risk portfolio of funds it recommended could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. 
As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements placed on it when providing 
him with such advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Bs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out below. My decision is Portal Financial Services LLP should pay Mr B 
the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr B the balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Portal doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. He may want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept 
this decision.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. He didnt 
make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want to wait for 
any new guidance. And Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains 
appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B.
Portal Financial Services LLP should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the pension review methodology, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Portal Financial Services LLP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr 
Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible 
be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss would be tax- 
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Portal. 
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cant be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Portal Financial Services LLP should agree an amount with 
the SIPP provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any 
costs and take ownership of the investment. If Portal is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP 
used in the calculations should include anything Portal has paid into the SIPP and any 
outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portal Financial Services LLP may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portal 
will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portal asks Mr B to provide an 
undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date 
Portal Financial Services LLP receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr B.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal Financial Services LLP deducts 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. It should give 
Mr B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal Financial Services LLP to carry out a calculation in 
line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to put things right in the way Ive directed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman