DRN-3703783
The complaint
Miss A complains that she didnt receive her cash settlement because the broker, Secure 
Risk Solutions Limited (SRS), provided incorrect bank details to the insurer.
What happened
Miss A was the sole policyholder of the buildings insurance for her home. She bought the 
policy using a broker, SRS. After a car damaged her garden wall, Miss As insurer accepted 
her claim. She opted for a cash settlement. 
Because Miss A paid for her policy in full at inception, the insurer didnt have any bank 
details to make the payment to. Miss As husband, Mr N, provided SRS with details of a joint 
bank account into which the cash settlement should be paid. SRS passed on the bank 
details to the insurer. After an initial error inputting the bank account details, the insurer paid 
the cash settlement. The money was paid into Miss A and Mr Ns bank account in May 2020.
In December 2020, Miss A asked SRS to arrange the policy renewal with her husband.
The following month, another authorised party on the account, who Ill call Mr W, chased 
settlement of the claim. SRS believed the payment was outstanding and asked for 
confirmation of the bank details. After speaking with Miss A, SRS accepted the bank details 
from Mr W, which matched those taken previously. It became apparent that the payment had 
been made already, so no further payment was issued.
In June 2021, Miss A visited the brokers office to complain that her husband had taken the 
cash settlement from the bank account without her knowledge. She followed that with a letter 
of complaint to SRS. Miss A said SRS had accepted and then provided the insurer with 
details for her husbands bank account, so she had never received the payment. SRS 
responded to say that it took the details from Mr N as an authorised third party on the policy, 
and the bank account to which payment was made was a jointly held account. Miss A said 
she had no knowledge of the account and she wasn't the joint account holder.
SRS rejected the complaint because it felt the insurer had made the payment to a valid 
account for Miss A. She brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think SRS had handled the claim fairly and she thought SRS should 
pay Miss A £300 compensation along with a further payment equivalent to the cash 
settlement the insurer paid into the joint account.
SRS disagreed. It said the bank details it provided were for a valid account in Miss As 
name, which was why the insurer was able to make payment into it.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Miss As complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Theres a lot of information relating to this complaint. I wont comment on everything and our 
rules dont require me to. Instead, Ill comment on the evidence which best helps explain my 
decision. 
The overriding issue is that Miss A doesnt think SRS shouldve accepted the bank details 
from her husband. Because it did, shes lost out on her cash settlement of just under £5,000. 
So, my role here is to decide whether it was reasonable for SRS to accept the bank details 
from Mr N.
SRS said Mr N was an authorised third party on Miss As policy. While there is no record 
from the policy inception confirming this, Ive accepted it to be an accurate statement 
because:
Miss A confirmed in her complaint letter of June 2021 that Mr N dealt with the contact 
with SRS.
Mr N was authorised to deal with the issues relating to the claim.
A call recording provided by SRS confirms that Miss A authorised it to speak to her 
husband about the renewal in December 2020.
Mr Ns mobile phone number was the authorised contact number on the account.
As Ive accepted that Mr N was an authorised third party, Ive thought about whether it was 
reasonable for SRS to accept the bank details from him without additional authority from 
Miss A. As the bank account was in both Miss As and Mr Ns name, I see no reason for 
SRS to require additional authority. Thats because the payment would be made into an 
account in Miss As name. Theres no requirement for it to be a sole bank account.
Miss A says she had no knowledge of the account and her husband took the money. Theres 
a lot of conflicting information about this, including within Miss As own statements where 
she says she knew about the account but also denies knowledge of it. However, there are 
strict security checks when opening a bank account, and its reasonable for me to assume 
that the bank completed the appropriate checks for this joint account. Therefore, I think it 
was reasonable for SRS to think Miss A was aware of her joint bank account, and it was also 
reasonable for it to make payment into that account. 
Its worth pointing out that Miss A hasnt provided any evidence to show that she gave SRS 
any other bank details for the payment until her complaint in June 2021.
Ill comment, briefly, on the information provided which sets out to prove or disprove Miss As 
knowledge of the joint bank account and the cash settlement. I havent disregarded the 
evidence. Ive thought carefully about everything thats been provided. But I dont find that 
the evidence bears any relevance to SRSs actions. I wouldnt expect SRS to check whether 
Miss A was aware of a bank account held in her name. Nor would I necessarily expect SRS 
to check with her every time her authorised third party provided information in relation to the 
claim shed asked him to deal with on her behalf. And I cant hold SRS responsible for what 
happened to the cash settlement once it was paid into the bank account she held jointly with 
her husband.
In summary, Im satisfied that SRS paid the cash settlement into an account in Miss As 
name, having received instruction from an authorised party on the policy. I cant reasonably 
say that SRS did anything wrong here.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither SRS nor Miss A had anything further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party made any further submissions, or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I reconsidered the evidence already available. Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Miss As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman