DRN-1558381
 
The complaint
Mr G complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs G, for whom he holds a power of attorney, that 
Santander UK Plc does not allow attorneys to do everything an account holder could do. He 
also complains about Santanders call handlers ending phone calls when he wished to 
continue the calls.
What happened
Mrs G and her husband had a joint account with Santander, and their son, Mr G, had power 
of attorney for them both; a fact of which Santander was aware. In June 2019 Mr G tried to 
make a payment on behalf of Mrs G, using online banking, to which he had access in his 
capacity as an attorney. He wanted the payment to go through that same day, but he 
discovered that the system would only allow the payment to go through on the next day. So 
he phoned Santander to complain about this. His point was then, and is now, that an 
account holder can send a payment online and have it take effect on the same day, but an 
attorney cannot, and so attorneys are not treated the same as account holders  but they 
should be. In another call, he also complained that in an earlier (third) call, the banks staff 
had hung up on him. This call was also ended by the banks staff.
Santander apologised for the fact that its systems did not give attorneys the ability to do 
everything an account holder can. It said this was not something over which its call handlers 
had control, but was a known IT issue which it would work to resolve in the long term. It said 
that its call handler had been entitled to end the call.
Being dissatisfied with that response, Mr G brought this complaint to our Service. Since he is 
not an account holder, he was not eligible to complain in his own right, but instead he 
brought this complaint on behalf of his mother. (His father is not involved in this complaint.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that Santanders systems being 
inadequate was a matter for the regulator. In the first of the phone calls I described above, 
the bank had set up the payment during the call, so that it would probably go through the 
same day  that is, most such payments would be processed within two hours, but a few 
could take until the end of the next working day. The investigator said those were the same 
terms an account holder would have bene given, so she thought there had been no 
detriment to Mrs G. After listening to a call recording, she concluded that the call handler had 
not acted unreasonably in ending the call.
Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said Santander was breaking the law.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account the guidelines, Supporting Customers Who Do Not Make Their 
Own Decisions, issued in May 2019 by the UK Regulators Network, the Office of the Public 
Guardian, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), and others. These say (at page 10) that an 
attorney should be treated in the same way as the customer they represent, and clearly 
Santanders website didnt achieve that. That isnt something this Service can compel 
Santander to change  that would be a matter for the FCA. But until the website is changed, 
that is not an excuse for treating an attorney differently to an account holder (except in one 
instance  I think its still reasonable to ask an attorney additional security questions), and it 
is not a defence to this complaint.
However, when Mr G called Santander, the banks staff set up a payment which would be 
processed the same day  or at least, according to the same time scale as a payment made 
by an account holder. (The potential delay to the next working day is due to the possibility of 
additional security checks being made, which is common to all banks.) The call handler 
explained that this was a one-off payment, but further same-day payments could be made in 
branch. Presumably they could also be made over the phone, in the same manner. So the 
problem only affects online payments. I agree thats not good enough, but on the other hand, 
this does not inconvenience Mrs G, and I can only award compensation for inconvenience to 
her. It does inconvenience Mr G, but, because he is not an eligible complainant in his own 
right  he is merely representing the complainant, which is Mrs G  I cannot award him 
compensation for that.
For the same reasons, I also could not award Mr G compensation for Santander ending his 
phone calls; nor can I award Mrs G compensation for that. But I have still listened to the 
recording of the call on 28 June 2019 (and also to the call on 20 June, although Mr G ended 
that one himself), and having done so, I dont think the call handler on 28 June acted 
unreasonably by ending that call. I havent heard the other calls which were ended by the 
bank, but I infer (based on the two calls I did listen to) that they were similar, and were 
ended for similar reasons. Mr G was not abusive (and no-one has suggested that he was; 
I mention that only because that is a common reason for ending a call, and I dont want 
anyone to assume that thats what Im referring to here). But his style could fairly be 
described as confrontational, and they cannot have been easy calls for the banks staff to 
deal with. Both calls had ceased to be constructive by the time they were ended, and just as 
Mr G ended one of them, I think Santander was justified in ending the other one.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman