DRN-1909296
The complaint
Mr J's complained about the valuation Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
paid for his car under his motor policy when it was written off following an arson attack.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M's car was blown up following an attack of arson. He made a claim to 
LV who declared the car a total loss. LV valued Mr J's car at £630 less the policy excess of 
£400 and made arrangements for £230 to be paid to Mr J as settlement of his claim.
Mr J thought the valuation was too low.But LV believed the valuation was fair based on the 
motor trade guides. Following a review by a senior engineer in line with their disputes 
process, as a gesture of goodwill LV waived any consideration given to the condition of the 
car, and agreed to pay Mr J an additional £150.
Mr J remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think LV 
had done anything wrong. Mr J didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Under the section of Mr Js policy with LV for damage to your car by accident or vandalism, 
if they can't repair or replace the damage to the car it says they will 'pay the market value of 
your car at the time of the damage'. The definition in the policy for 'market value' is;
'the cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model and specification, taking 
into account the age, mileage and condition of your car. To determine the market value, well 
usually ask an engineer for advice and refer to motor trade guides and other relevant 
sources. Well consider the amount you could reasonably have obtained for your car if you 
sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft and not the price you paid for it.
LV said Mr J's car was a total loss. After a senior engineer review they valued his car at 
£780. Mr J didn't think that was enough and that LV should be offering around £1,800. 
I've considered that valuation carefully. I've seen that when looking to value Mr J's car LV 
considered well-known industry trade guides used for valuing second hand cars. The guides 
rarely agree on an exact valuation, but we find them more reliable than the prices cars are 
advertised for. That's because the guides are based on likely sales prices whereas adverts 
are usually inflated to allow some room for negotiation.
LV's duty as per their policy terms is to calculate the market valuation according to the trade
guides.They did this and actually paid Mr Ja slightly higher price that they could've done.I appreciate Mr J feels strongly about this matter. But I havent seen anything to show that 
LV has treated him unfairly in this case.
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman