DRN-4335605
The complaint
Mr M complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
The Tavistock Partnership Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Tavistock.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to 
Tavistock which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
As of November 2017 Mr M had accrued over 35 years worth of service. The cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of his BSPS was approximately £515,130. The 
normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mr M was 52 years and 11 months old and was married with two children. Hed had a 
health scare from which he was recovering and was currently on extended sick 
leave. Although the prognosis for this medical condition looked good, Mr M said the 
episode had made him re-evaluate his plans. He wanted to stop working and retire at 
the age of 55, rather than 65. In the interim period, Mr M didnt intend going back to 
work and intended to resign in due course, when his sick pay ended.
Mr Ms income had been around £36,000 per year but if his plans worked out as 
above, this would cease in around six months time (May 2018). Mrs M didnt 
currently work but they owned two overseas rental properties outright which 
generated an annual income of around €10,000. He and Mrs M also had £175,000 in 
cash savings, an internet business generating £1,000 per month and a mortgage free 
home which they lived in.
Mr M had been recently contributing to a new defined contribution (DC) pension as a 
consequence of the BSPS closing to new contributions. Although there was only then 
£3,487 in this fund, it was receiving substantial employee and employer contributions 
each month. This pension is not the subject of any complaint. 
Tavistock set out its advice in a suitability report dated 10 November 2017. In this it advised 
Mr M to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
Tavistock said this would allow Mr M to achieve his objectives. Mr M accepted this advice 
and so transferred out. In 2023 Mr M complained to Tavistock about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. Tavistock didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong.
Mr M then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. In response, Tavistock 
repeated that it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr M 
had at the time. 
As the complaint cant be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Tavistock should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ms best interests. In particular, I have also carefully 
considered the final response letter from Tavistock. Ive carefully considered too, the various 
other responses made to the points contained within our investigators view.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Introductory issues 
I think its reasonable to describe the BSPS landscape at the time as uncertain and as Ill 
explain more about later, its understandable that British Steel workers like Mr M were 
unsure about what to do. Indeed, there is considerable evidence in this particular case that 
Mr M really didnt know what was for the best. We know this because he initially agreed with 
Tavistocks adviser who had recommended that he should transfer away from his DB 
scheme, but he then changed his mind citing that he couldnt face going into retirement 
without a known and steady income. However, he changed his mind once more, again going 
with the original recommendation to transfer away.
Nevertheless, I think this was a very difficult decision for Mr M to make. He wasnt 
experienced in these matters and had absolutely no investment history to call upon. I think 
its also fair to point out that hed suffered a significant medical episode which for him and 
Mrs M must have been a worry, particularly as he was still relatively young and they still had 
a family which were dependent on them.
In this context, I think it was very important that the adviser took account of these 
vulnerabilities. A part of Tavistocks defence of this complaint is that Mr M was given 
information and that it was he who ultimately wanted to go ahead; Tavistock implies he had 
enough information on which to make an informed decision. I understand the point being 
made.
However, it was Tavistock that was the regulated party here, not Mr M. He was clearly an 
inexperienced amateur in this area and Tavistock was charging a substantial fee for the 
information and advice Mr M was seeking. So, the advisers job here wasnt to simply 
transact what Mr M might have thought sounded like a good idea. The advisers job was to 
use their experience, skills and regulatory training to really get to grips with Mr Ms 
circumstances. Their job was to interpret his situation and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
As Ill set out, I dont think the adviser did this.
Financial viability 
Our investigator referred in his view letter to critical yield rates. These were also referred to 
in Tavistocks transfer analysis and suitability report. The critical yield is essentially the 
average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer value - from the 
time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Our investigator pointed out that the critical yield required to match 
the benefits of the BSPS2 at the NRA of 65 was 6.03% if taking a full pension. If taking a tax-
free lump sum and a reduced pension at the age of 65, the critical yield was 4.32%. However, Mr M told the adviser that he wanted to retire early. Given all the circumstances, I 
think the adviser was entitled to believe this and consider it the most likely option. This would 
have involved Mr M remaining on sick leave for around another six months and then using 
his own resources to live on until hed be able to access his pension at the age of 55. I 
should point out that the BSPS did contain certain provisions about retiring even earlier, due 
to ill health. But these related to cases of total disablement or where future work was out of 
the question. I dont think this would have applied to Mr M. All the evidence pointed to a 
complete recovery from his health scare and an ability to work thereafter if he ever wanted 
to. But Mr M told the adviser he wanted to stop work and retire.
This means the critical yield calculation should have focussed on retiring at 55, rather than 
65. And the figures for this showed the respective yields were 23.02% (a full pension only) 
and 12.89% (a reduced pension and a tax-free lump sum).
These yields would normally tend to strongly demonstrate that transferring away from the DB 
scheme was unlikely to be financially viable. This is because reaching this level of annual 
growth outside the scheme year-on-year would be very difficult to achieve. In my view, it 
would be highly unlikely.
I can say this because Mr M had only just over two years until reaching 55 so his pension 
would need to grow by over 12% each year for those years. On the other hand, the 
regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and 
the lower projection rate was 2%. But this hadnt been updated for some time and in 2017 
we were in the midst of very low interest rates and low bond yields so I think that realistically 
growth projections could have been even lower. Ive also seen, for example, that the fund 
provider which was being considered by Tavistock here issued low / mid / high growth 
assumptions that were 2.01%, 4.94% and 7.87% respectively. 
Tavistock had assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR) as 4/10. But as Ive said, he had no 
investment experience whatsoever to call upon. Ive also noted that despite having £175,000 
in savings, this was mainly held in cash type accounts. In my view, Mr M also showed no 
interest in investing and whilst Im sure he understood the basics, I think the evidence 
showed he didnt like financial risk and had no desire to take too many chances that might 
involve even short-term losses. So I think even this modest ATR categorisation was higher 
than it realistically should have been.
In any event, I think there was very little chance of Mr Ms transferred funds growing enough 
to make the transfer worthwhile. The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions 
in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and it 
was only 2.7% per year for around 2 years to retirement (age 55), which is well below the 
critical yield figures Ive referred to above. Even if assuming Mr M did work on a little longer, 
which would give him more time to smooth out his investment returns, the discount rate for 
a retirement at 65 was still only 4%. This therefore implies that by transferring, Mr M would 
be losing financial benefits. 
As our investigator pointed out, I think the more suitable advice would have been for Mr M to 
stay in the BSPS and migrate with it to the PPF. The critical yield for the PPF (taking a lump sum and reduced pension) was 13.88%. This wasnt much different to the high critical 
yields Ive mentioned above. And Id still need to also factor in that there would be costs and 
charges associated with a personal pension which were not present in the DB scheme Mr M 
had (or one which he was able to move into in due course such as the BSPS2 or PPF). 
There would be little point in transferring - from a financial comparison point of view  unless 
there were clear indications that growth would comfortably exceed the critical yield rate and 
also cope with any additional fees. That situation certainly wasnt present here.
Ive also noted that using the anticipated retirement age of 55, Tavistocks own transfer 
analysis said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the scheme the estimated fund required was £631,345. I 
dont have a corresponding figure for the PPF, but because this figure is well above Mr Ms 
CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into the value of the guaranteed 
pension he could be giving up by transferring away to a personal plan.
So, I think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Tavistocks own 
figures showed that transferring to a personal pension plan would mean Mr M would likely 
receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared against the available DB 
scheme. 
Ive also considered some projections Tavistock used to help show that if he transferred out 
to a personal plan, the funds could last Mr M well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections which were based on past performance and they also ran out at 
certain ages, whereas Mr Ms DB scheme was guaranteed for life. Its also fair to say these 
were not comparing like-with-like. What Tavistock was showing Mr M were comparisons with 
plans which lacked the guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to Tavistock, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a 
personal pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current 
scheme alone. Rather, Tavistock said Mr M also had other reasons to transfer away. Ive 
therefore thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned earlier. 
Ive considered these below.
Other reasons for transferring
Tavistock recommended a transfer to a personal pension arrangement based on the 
assessment of your existing scheme benefits and your recorded needs. And in its response 
to our investigators view, Tavistock said, the reason for transferring the scheme is based 
on the requirement to retire at age 55, the flexibility of withdrawals and the death benefits 
associated with a DC scheme. The following areas were also set out in the suitability report 
effectively justifying the recommendation to transfer (which Ive summarised):
Mr M wanted retirement fairly soon which meant accessing his benefits at the age of 
55. He was on sick leave and not planning to return to work. This sick pay would last 
until May 2018 whereupon he would just resign from his job in the steel industry. He 
would then use his savings as income until aged 55, when his pension would kick in.
He wanted to take tax efficient income using tax-free cash in order to monthly 
supplement a required annual pension income of around £17,000.
He wanted to enjoy more flexible pension benefits and did not want to take a set 
income from the BS scheme as this couldnt be tailored to his needs.He wanted to have more control of his pension.
The death benefits in a personal pension were more suitable for Mr M.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early and flexibility
The adviser made the assumption that Mr M wasnt going to return to paid employment. I 
accept this was based on what Mr M had said, but I think there were other factors that 
should have called for a more cautious approach to irreversibly transferring away at what 
was still a relatively young age by pension standards.
I say this because it was clearly obvious that Mr M had gone through a difficult health scare 
and I think there was a real risk that he was making decisions founded, understandably, on 
short-term considerations. He may not have been contemplating returning to work at all at 
that stage, but the records show Mr M was evidently making a good recovery and so there 
was every indication that his views might change or at least, that paid employment might be 
something he could return to in the future. 
More importantly, I think there was solid evidence that Mr M wanted the opposite of 
flexibility. In fact, in my view, flexibility was both poorly defined by the adviser and I think it 
was no more than a stock objective used to justify transferring away. I say this because I 
can see Mr M at first accepted the transfer recommendation. But on 29 November 2017 he 
emailed the adviser to ask that the transfer be stopped because he had reconsidered and, 
we cannot go into retirement without a secure income. The adviser even appeared to agree 
with this view which to me suggests they were not leading events but rather, just 
encouraging Mr M to decide on his own what to do. Looking at the content of Mr Ms email, 
his rationale appeared flawed based as it was on what others were doing with their pension. 
The adviser didnt grip the situation and they should have explained that what was relevant 
here were Mr and Mrs Ms needs, not those of others (whose situations would clearly be 
different).
Tavistocks analysis set out what he might get by opting for either the BSPS2 or PPF and 
accessing the benefits at the age of 55. There were some minor differences in the annual 
pension figures and the tax-free lump sums depending on whether you read the analysis 
(sometimes called a TVAS) or the suitability report. 
However, these minor variances dont fundamentally change anything. What the analysis in 
the TVAS was broadly saying was that if Mr M chose to move to the BSPS2, then hed be 
able to start drawing an annual pension of around almost £12,000 and also receive a tax-
free lump sum of around £80,000. For the PPF, the figures were slightly higher. Tavistock 
calculated that as a member of the PPF scheme, Mr Ms annual pension would be around 
£13,300 and his tax-free lump sum around £88,000. So, I think its fair to say that if given the 
choice and had it properly explained to him, Mr M would have probably wanted to move into 
the PPF as he was slightly better off by doing so.
Mr M had told the adviser that he was seeking an annual income of around £17,000 in order 
to live reasonably in retirement. This demonstrated two things. The first is that Mr M really 
preferred a fixed income when he retired and not a flexible one. There are quite a few 
examples of this in the documents Ive seen, the most predominant one being his email 
communication where he was quite obviously not wanting to go into retirement without a 
known annual pension. The second example is the fact that he came up with a figure at all. 
What I think Mr M was saying was that he and Mrs M needed £17,000 per year in income to cover their outgoings and retire comfortably. And Ive considered this to be an additional 
income on top of their other income sources and savings.
The reality here was that Mr and Mrs M already had considerable income and wealth 
flexibility. They had rental income and an on-line micro business. The also each had the 
maximum allowed premium bonds totalling £100,000. This generated occasional prizes and 
was also a liquid asset as bonds can be cashed on-line in a matter of days. They also had 
what most people would consider to have reasonably large cash assets held on deposit, so I 
think all these things provided substantial liquidity and flexibility. Also, if opting for the PPF, 
its likely Mr M might have also chosen another tax-free lump sum. I cant say this for sure, 
but its my experience that most people will opt to take a reduced pension and a tax-free 
lump sum. And as Mr M himself mentioned he wanted to be tax efficient, I think this is what 
he would have done. This would have added around £88,000 to their cash deposits meaning 
that at the point of retirement, they would likely have access to well over £200,000 even 
allowing for the 18 months or so where hed need to partly live off his cash reserves.  
This all means that Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr M wouldnt want to continue 
membership of a DB scheme  in this case Im saying this was the PPF - and to use that 
scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. If all he needed in retirement income 
was around £17,000 per year, I think the adviser should have pointed out that this seemed 
easily achievable given the potential PPF income I have set out above. 
So, I dont think theres anything showing Mr and Mrs Ms total annual income from both the 
PPF and all these other sources, wouldnt have fairly easily met their anticipated future 
income requirements, without any need for him to transfer away from a DB scheme. 
I think Tavistock also promoted to Mr M that he could access more tax-free cash if he 
transferred to a personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as 
a lump-sum and then use the remaining funds more flexibly and in a personal pension the 
lump-sum would be much higher. But again, this needed a careful explanation. Its usually 
the case that more tax-free cash can be accessed from a personal pension when compared 
against a DB scheme; this is because the values and benefits of the two schemes are 
calculated differently. But Tavistock should have been telling Mr M at the time that extra tax-
free lump sums being removed from a personal pension, clearly from the age of 55 in his 
case, also came with consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years 
would decrease. I also cant see there was a need for substantially more tax-free cash in 
their lives. 2017 was a period where a low interest rate environment had persisted for many 
years so the interest on cash was poor and there were no specific large-scale purchases on 
the horizon for Mr and Mrs M; they seem to me very much like people who had a modest 
and sensible approach to money. 
Overall, I think flexibility would have sounded positive to Mr M. However, I cant see that he 
and Mrs M required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In any event, 
flexibility was poorly defined by Tavistock. Ive seen nothing that showed Mr M required 
changing how his retirement benefits ought to be paid at the point he was seeking the 
advice.  
Control of the funds
In essence, this is an extension of the above points Ive made. However, Ive also seen no 
evidence that Mr M had either the capacity or desire to exercise control over his funds. Mr M 
was being offered the opportunity to transfer to the new BSPS2 or the PPF. Its true there 
were some differences in these schemes when compared to the original BSPS, but they 
remained DB schemes nonetheless and were run for him by trustees. I accept that Mr M may have had a basic understanding of pensions but theres no evidence 
he was an experienced investor. This was a very large amount of money so I think he would 
have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing over £515,000 of his own 
transferred funds from his DB scheme to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen 
tends to show Mr M would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which 
would cost him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him. He simply didnt have 
the experience to personally manage the funds.
Death benefits 
Death benefits are an emotive subject. When asked, I think most people would like their 
loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The BSPS2 and PPF both contained certain 
benefits payable to a spouse if Mr M died. 
Mr M was married so I think the value of these benefits were most likely underplayed 
because the spouses pension provided by the PPF, for example, would have been useful to 
Mrs M if Mr M predeceased her. I think his wife would have found this benefit a source of 
comfort and security particularly as Mrs M didnt have a meaningful pension of her own. I 
therefore dont think Tavistock made the real value of this benefit area clear enough. The 
death benefits were substantial in both the BSPS2 and the PPF; they were guaranteed and 
they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum 
remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
I think the adviser probably discussed with Mr M that hed be able to pass on the value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone he nominated. So, the lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like attractive 
features to him. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M 
might have thought it was a good idea to transfer to a personal pension because of this, the 
priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Tavistock explored to 
what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a different retirement income in exchange for 
different death benefits.
An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the amount left to pass on 
 to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner starts to withdraw his or her 
retirement income. To this end, if Mr M had lived a long life there could be much less left in 
his personal pension plan. I accept Mr M had a health condition which was no doubt a worry 
for him and Mrs M. But the health prognosis looked good. The adviser should have therefore 
additionally known that a male only in is fifties even with a previous health condition  such 
as the one Mr M had at the time  might still have had many years ahead in which he would 
be drawing down his pension funds thus leaving less to pass on to someone.
If moving to the PPF rather than transferring to a personal pension arrangement, I still think 
Mrs M would have been financially well protected if something unexpected had happened to 
Mr M. I say this because shed have an income of around half his annual pension for the rest 
of her life and in due course shed possibly have her own state pension. Mr M also had his 
DC (TATA) pension. I accept this was small in pension terms and probably insignificant. But 
nevertheless, I think its fair to say that this fund could have grown from its current £3,487 to 
around £10,000 - £12,000 with a few more months contributions and modest growth. So Mr 
M could have nominated a beneficiary for this small amount in the event of his passing.
There was no evidence Mr Ms life expectancy was so short as to make these assumptions 
unreasonable. If moving to the PPF and taking a lump sum, I think its fair to point out that Mr 
and Mrs M would initially have a substantial six-figure sum in savings  so I think its credible 
to say that even if Mr Ms health did become very concerning, or he died well ahead of his life expectancy, then Mrs M would still likely have had access to a significant cash sum as 
well as an ongoing spouses pension.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I think this 
objective, listed as it was in the suitability report, was no more than a generic comment and 
not meaningful to Mr Ms situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and 
Tavistock said he lacked trust in the company. He may well have heard negative things 
about the PPF and Tavistock said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Tavistocks obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
I also think that Tavistock should have reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he might have originally thought. As I have shown, the benefits 
available to Mr M through the PPF were actually more than the BSPS2 in his case and so 
would have provided a significant portion of the income he would have needed at retirement. 
And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns 
should have led to Tavistocks recommendation to Mr M to transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Suitability of investments 
Tavistock recommended that Mr M invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding 
the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M 
and I dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring out of the scheme if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in a DB scheme 
and so the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. 
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free 
and increasing income within the BSPS2 or the PPF. 
Tavistock said the reasons for transferring the scheme were based on the requirement to 
retire at age 55, the flexibility of withdrawals, and the death benefits associated with a DC 
scheme. But Mr M already had the option of retiring at 55 and his financial position easily 
supported this. He also didnt need income flexibility in the way Tavistock implied as his 
retirement objectives appeared entirely sustainable without transferring away from a DB 
scheme; by doing so hed be incorporating a market risk which I dont think he was 
comfortable with and it simply wasnt necessary. Mr M also had more than enough cash for 
his and Mrs Ms apparent needs. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons 
which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. I therefore think Tavistock ought to have advised him against transferring out of his DB 
scheme for these reasons and his circumstances here were much more aligned to him 
moving to the PPF. In my view, in his case the PPF was the slightly better choice from a 
financial perspective. He was also sure he wanted to access his pension quite soon after the 
advice and there was a possibility that he wouldnt be working again.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr M would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that Tavistock disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr M and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr M to transfer out, and I think Mr M heavily relied on that advice. Im 
not persuaded that Mr M would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Tavistocks advice. I say this because Mr M was an inexperienced investor and this was a 
large pension which accounted for almost all of his retirement provision at the time. So, if 
Tavistock had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mr Ms concerns about the PPF were so great that he would 
have insisted on transferring his pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, was advising him on this course of action. 
In light of the above, I think Tavistock should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice if 
its determined there has been a loss, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Tavistocks unsuitable advice. 
Mr M told the adviser he was adamant on retiring at the age of 55. I know he went on to do 
this and so has actually retired. In that contest therefore, I consider Mr M would have most 
likely opted to join the PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension, if he'd been given 
suitable advice. Compensation should be based on an early retirement age of 55. I have 
explained in the decision why this is. 
To be clear, Tavistock should use the benefits offered by PPF for comparison purposes.
Tavistock must undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress 
for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set 
out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tavistock should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress as 
if hed joined the PPF. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and our 
Service upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what 
Tavistock based the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Tavistock should:calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts Tavistocks offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Tavistock may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that Tavistock should pay Mr M for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr M in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
almost all of his retirement provision and it was a large amount. In his situation I think the 
thought of losing material benefits would have impacted upon Mr M. So I agree the 
recommended payment of £300 for distress and inconvenience. Tavistock should pay Mr M 
this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct The 
Tavistock Partnership Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
The Tavistock Partnership Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on The Tavistock 
Partnership Limited.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman