DRN-2732126
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the total loss settlement U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct 
Line paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C made a claim to his insurer, UKI. UKI settled Mr Cs claim as a total loss. So under the 
terms of the policy, it paid Mr C the market value of his car. 
Mr C said the amount UKI paid wasnt enough to enable him to buy an equivalent car on the 
market. He raised a complaint with UKI. But UKI said its valuation was fair. So Mr C asked 
us to look at his complaint. He provided examples of similar cars for sale for more than the 
sum UKI had paid him. Mr C wanted UKI to pay the full cost of replacing his car and to 
provide a replacement subject to his acceptance and deliver it to him. 
Our investigator thought UKI had reached its valuation in a reasonable way. So he didnt 
recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C didnt agree. In summary he says UKI hasnt provided a fair valuation in line with the 
policy. And so he wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has raised concerns about the approach UKI has taken in reaching a valuation for his 
car. In summary he believes our guidance allows insurers to manipulate historically based 
motor valuation guides. He says UKIs approach to his complaint that he can either accept 
the settlement offer or take his complaint to us is something we or the Financial Conduct 
Authority should consider as a possible unfair contract term. He found UKIs practices worthy 
of referral to the Serious Fraud Office. Mr C believes it is the poorer members of Society that 
will be at a disadvantage as a result of UKIs practices  as they will not have an awareness 
of the concept of indemnity. Mr C would like us to address these points in addition to his 
valuation complaint. 
The Financial Conduct Authority is the regulator for UKI. The role of this service is to look at 
complaints brought by a customer to a business  - and whether the business has acted in a 
fair and reasonable way and in line with the policy. We look at each case on its own merits. 
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer reached a valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Cs policy with UKI says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
his policy. In order to decide the market value for Mr Cs car, UKI researched one of the 
main motor trade guides. These guides provide valuations based on national and local 
research and likely selling prices for the month of loss. It isnt for an insurer to provide a 
replacement car  but to pay  as the policy says - the cost of replacing Mr Cs car with 
another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the 
accident or loss.
We find relying on the motor trade guides a fair approach to take for a number of reasons. 
There is more than one guide to check against. They are able to provide valuations for the 
majority of cars based on the same make, model, age, mileage and condition based on likely 
selling prices for the month of loss. They provide a retail transacted guide which is the price 
that a customer can expect to pay for a similar car from a reputable dealer. 
We tend to find advertised prices can vary widely and the asking price often has a margin 
built in for negotiation. Ive looked at both the trade guides and the examples Mr C has 
provided, along with the engineers report. 
UKI provided a starting market value for Mr Cs car at £2,400 based on one of the main 
guides for a similar car in good condition. The engineer took into account the specification of 
Mr Cs car. He found pre-existing damage to the rear bumper and key damage to the off side 
front door. The engineer estimated that to repair these areas of Mr Cs car, it would cost 
£606. Mr C disputes that it would have cost him this amount to arrange repairs if hed 
intended to sell the car. He says the damage was superficial and reasonable wear and tear 
for a 13 year old car.
We think its generally fair for an insurer to only deduct half of the costs to repair pre-existing 
damage  unless the vehicle is a relatively new car where the impact of pre-existing damage 
can have a greater effect on price. In this case, UKI deducted £306 for pre-existing damage 
from the settlement sum, reducing it to £2,100. So I cant say that UKI acted unreasonably 
here. 
Looking at the trade guides, these were able to provide an adjustment for the lower than 
average mileage of Mr Cs car. The valuations ranged from £2,128 to £2,400. 
The examples Mr C provided show that there is a very wide range in the for sale prices for 
cars of a similar make and model to Mr Cs. The examples include cars advertised for more 
than UK paid: examples including younger cars and/or with lower mileage and varying in 
condition. 
Having considered all of the available information, Im satisfied that UKI has reached its 
valuation in a fair way and in line with the policy. The advert examples arent persuasive 
enough to demonstrate that UKIs reliance on the main motor trade guides to decide a 
market value for Mr Cs car was unreasonable. So Im of the view that UKI has met it 
obligations under the policy and treated Mr C in a fair way. 
I havent found any evidence to support Mr Cs concerns that UKI acted in a fraudulent way 
when considering his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman