DRN-3377186
The complaint
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) damaged her fire 
whilst carrying out a service under her home care insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2021, a British Gas engineer attended Mrs Hs property to carry out an annual gas 
fire service. A securing bolt snapped whilst the engineer was servicing the fire. The bolt was 
one of four bolts which secured the fires front plate, which needed to be removed to enable 
the engineer to service it. British Gas condemned the fire due to the broken fixing. Mrs H 
raised a complaint and requested British Gas to make good the damaged part. She said that 
a securing bolt had previously been broken during a service and was repaired by the 
previous homeowner. On this occasion however, Mrs H was advised that it couldnt be 
repaired.
British Gas investigated Mrs Hs concerns and found that the fixing broke due to wear and 
tear and so it didnt accept liability. Due to a missed service in 2020 however, British Gas 
offered some help. It didnt consider that a repair was cost effective and it stated that a 
replacement would be preferable. British Gas didnt agree to cover the full cost for the 
replacement fire however, as it didnt accept liability for the damage. It stated that as an 
alternative, it would pay some of the costs that Mrs H incurred. For the period that it hadnt 
serviced the fire, British Gas offered to refund Mrs Hs premium of £128.12. It also offered to 
contribute £50 to cover a repair quote, and increased its compensation payment to £170, 
which it stated was a good will gesture. In total, British Gas offered to pay Mrs H £348.12.
Mrs H accepted the refund of the £128.12 premium but asked British Gas to either increase 
the goodwill gesture offer to £500, replace the fire of alternatively said shed accept £350 to 
remove the fire and make the area safe. British Gas didn't agree and so, Mrs H referred her 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint. She wasnt persuaded that wear and tear or a
manufacturing or design fault applied here. Based on the available photographs, she thought 
that the bolt appeared to be in a good condition, with no discolouration or corrosion to 
indicate that it was worn out. She said that the bolt was a functional and not a cosmetic
part of the appliance which had snapped twice whilst under the care of British Gas. She 
couldnt rule out excessive force having been used by the engineers acting on behalf of 
British Gas.
She concluded as follows; - I dont agree that the fact this fault happened twice is sufficient 
evidence to suggest that the part is flawed. Had it been a manufacturing issue, or a known 
fault linked to the product I think it is likely that there would have been more evidence to 
support this e.g. a product recall. I understand that BG have liaised with the manufacturer 
and I cant see that they have obtained any evidence to support that this is a manufacturing 
issue. BG havent shown us that the fault wasnt due to their engineers acting negligently or 
that the fault unavoidable.
Our investigator, having upheld the complaint, considered that the onus was on British Gas 
to show that the damage was unavoidable, or that it had informed Mrs H of the risks involved 
during the service. It was her view that British Gas should place Mrs H back in the position 
she was prior to the damage being caused.
British Gas hasnt agreed with our investigators conclusions. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to determine is whether British Gas has applied the terms and conditions of 
the home care insurance policy fairly and reasonably in treating the damage to Mrs Hs fire 
as having been caused by wear and tear or manufacturers fault and declining her claim.
As a starting point, Ive therefore considered the following terms and conditions of the policy. 
Under the heading Whats covered, it states: - All repairs tothe gas appliance(s) shown 
on your statementincluding an annual service. Accidental damage is also covered. 
Under the heading General exclusions the following is included under the heading Pre-
existing faults: -
Your products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed;
 existed when you first took out the product;
 weve told you about before and you havent fixed, or, if the work has been completed by a 
third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a satisfactory standard;
 we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, faulty 
pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete floors; or
 prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over.
Finally, the terms and conditions also state: -
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property, furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused 
it. For example damage caused by water leaks. Were also not responsible for any losses 
incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged or cancelled appointments.
I now turn to the evidence and information provided by both British Gas and Mrs H. 
Mrs Hs central complaint is that her gas appliance was in good working order prior to the 
British Gas service in 2021 and has since the service subsequently been condemned. She 
said that £170 clearly didnt cover the cost of a replacement. In addition, she said that there 
was now a need to remove the broken appliance and either make the area safe in order to 
install an electric replacement, or indeed to replace a flue for a new gas fire, which would 
also incur significant costs for her.
Mrs H was unhappy that British Gas was still referring to the damage as being down to wear 
and tear. She said that it was clear that the British Gas engineer broke the fire bolt and that 
the bolt was only used when being serviced. In the circumstances, she said that the part 
hadnt been touched for two years. Mrs H said that following the incident, the engineer said he was going on annual leave and indicated that his manager would telephone her. Mrs H 
had to contact British Gas and make a complaint however, and another engineer was then 
sent out to inspect the fire.
Mrs H stated that she obtained a quote in relation to the damage done by the engineer and 
British Gas offered to pay Mrs H for this. She thought that the compensation offered wasnt 
enough however to either replace the gas fire or to make the area safe, as the report 
indicated that the flue had to be changed. She understood that this would cost £1,500 if the 
gas fire was to be replaced. 
Mrs H provided a photograph of the bolt prior to the time she owned the property. She said it 
was subsequently fixed by an engineer, instructed by the previous owner. The independent 
engineer she contacted to provide a quote to repair the fire stated it was uneconomical to 
repair. His report referred to the broken stud which has been over tightened and snapped 
off. He was prepared to discuss his recommendations with British Gas, however its not 
clear whether this contact took place.
Mrs H said that when shed purchased the property, she was made aware of the previous 
issue with the fire. She alleged that the previous owner informed her that the problem 
occurred when British Gas over-tightened the bolt on that occasion also.
When complaining to this service, Mrs H made the point that it was approaching a colder 
part of the year and that there was no gas fire to heat the house which accommodated 
vulnerable persons. She also stated that despite accepting the refund for services not 
received and re-imbursement for the quote shed obtained, shed received nothing two 
months later.
I now turn to the evidence and information provided by British Gas. It stated that the fixing 
was broken due to wear and tear and refused to accept liability for the damage. It accepted 
responsibility for a missed service in 2020 however, and it was for this element that it agreed 
to refund policy payments of £128.12 and the invoice quote for the quote for £50 as well as a 
good will payment of £170.
It said that Mrs H declined this amount and requested a refund for the following years full 
renewal sum of £205.20 plus a £500 goodwill gesture on top of the £50 for the invoice. It 
responded that the renewal was not just for gas appliance cover as it included central 
heating and home electrical cover.
British Gas subsequently argued that the terms of the policy allowed a service to be 
completed once for the year 2019-2020 and once for the year 2020-2021, so it said its final 
response letter had been incorrect in stating that the annual service was missed. It said that 
it would be requesting a payment of £65 back in view of what it considered to be a payment 
made in error.
British Gas confirmed that to repair the bolt, it would involve equipment it didnt carry. It 
checked with the manufacturer which didnt allow it to drill the fixing and replace it, as it 
needed to be removed and re-welded. British Gas also confirmed that it would be classed as 
a modification and the manufacturer would need to complete any modifications and said this 
wasnt possible. British Gas considered the fire to be unrepairable in the circumstances and 
considered that what it had offered as a goodwill payment was more than generous.
As to the bolt, British Gas said that it should be able to withstand the process of removal and 
refitting. It said that its records showed that during two separate visits in 2018, similar faults 
were noted with the securing bolts, specifically on the bottom left. This was prior to Mrs H 
owning the property. The British Gas notes indicated that one bolt was broken as at January 2018. It recorded bottom left nut loose in October 2018. The notes also indicated that the 
engineer spoke to the manufacturer of the fire at that time and recorded the appliance as 
immediately dangerous. The repair wasnt carried out or costs settled by British Gas in 2018. 
It acknowledged that the subsequent issues identified in 2021 related to the stud on the top 
right of the fire.
It said that it had been possible for the previous owner of the property to arrange repairs in
October 2018. When the same issue occurred during Mrs Hs period of cover, the
manufacturer confirmed that a repair was not possible on this occasion and British Gas said 
that this was outside its control. British Gas was satisfied that Mrs H was aware of the risks 
as shes been aware of the 2018 incident and that British Gas didnt have the facility to repair 
the damage if it happened again.
It said that there was no evidence of any negligence on the part of the engineer who 
attended in 2021. It stressed that this was a different engineer to the ones who had attended 
in 2018 and that therefore three separate engineers had raised issues regarding bolts. 
British Gas acknowledged that whilst it had initially referred to this as wear and tear, it later 
considered that component failure was more representative of the situation. It thought that 
the reoccurrence of this issue was an indication of an inherent manufacturing or design fault, 
for which it said British Gas couldnt be held responsible. It said; - The general definition of 
wear and tear when it comes to insurance claims is used when referring to the damage that 
happens to an object in ordinary use during a period. Whilst to an extent this definition does 
apply in this instance, it was felt that component failure was a more appropriate description 
of what has happened here...
British Gas added that manufacturers will only make parts available for around 5-6 years 
after the date of manufacture and that the exact date of manufacture of this particular 
appliance was unknown. It said that its records did show that the appliance was installed in 
approximately 2001 and said it was reasonable to conclude that it was over 20 years old. On 
balance, it remained satisfied that the evidence available supported the view that there was 
an inherent fault with the fire itself and that the engineers who serviced the appliance hadnt 
been negligent. 
As to delay in making agreed payments, it said that they hadnt been made as Mrs H hadnt 
accepted this outcome previously and this was the reason why no payment had been made. 
It confirmed that the payments had now been issued as requested, including a full refund of 
the premiums paid in respect of gas appliance cover. It said it had also paid the £50 to cover 
the quote fee as well as its generous goodwill gesture. It thought that this resolution was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence produced by both Mrs H and British Gas. I note that 
the terms and conditions dont specifically refer to wear and tear or design and 
manufacturing faults. They do however exclude cover for pre-existing faults.
Having considered all available information, I consider that there is insufficient evidence to 
support the argument that there was an inherent fault with the securing bolt. On the balance 
of probabilities, the damage was connected to the way in which the front panel had been 
removed and re-secured during the service. Its also my view that the engineer should have 
been alert to the need to take particular care, due to the record held by British Gas as to a 
previous issue with a separate bolt. The report of the engineer instructed by Mrs Hs 
specifically referred to the bolt having been over tightened so that it snapped off.
I dont consider that it makes any difference to this central finding as to whether Mrs H was 
aware that there had been a previous problem with a different bolt. There was no indication 
that there was a design fault with a separate bolt and no fault was noted during the 2019 service. British Gas had also continued to accept premiums for cover despite the issues 
reported in 2018 which shows that it considered the appliance was capable of being 
successfully serviced.
I note that the British Gas records from the date of the incident show that the top right 
securing bolt had snapped and that the engineer was unable to repair it. This indicates 
sudden damage and gives no indication that the bolt was corroded or found to be broken on 
inspection. As to wear and tear therefore, Im satisfied that the damage shown in the 
photographic evidence doesnt fulfil the usual definition for wear and tear. Wear and tear 
would imply deterioration over a period of time, where in reality the damage is sudden, as 
the bolt snapped off during removal or replacement of the front plate of the fire.
Im satisfied that a different bolt had caused difficulties in 2018. The fact that the same issue 
occurred with a different bolt in 2021 indicates that British Gas was aware that care needed 
to be taken in removing the front plate to avoid damage to the bolts. The damage occurred 
during the British Gas service and Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the method, 
angle or force of removal which was the primary cause of the damage and the snapping of 
the bolt. 
British Gas later asserted that there was an inherent fault, however the photographs dont 
show an apparently weakened bolt mechanism. I agree with our investigator that the bolt 
appears to be in a good condition there is no discolouration or corrosion which would 
indicate that the bolt is worn out  and there is no apparent explanation for a 20 year old bolt 
to fail, other than by force being applied awkwardly or without sufficient care. The fact that a 
separate bolt failed three years previously didnt mean that bolts which had been in place for 
possibly 20 years were inherently weak.
In the circumstances, I conclude that British Gas hasnt treated Mrs H fairly and reasonably 
under the terms of its policy. I dont consider that the damage to the securing bolt was due to 
wear and tear. Also, on balance, I dont consider that there was an inherent design or 
manufacturing fault either. I consider that its more likely than not that the bolt snapped off 
during the British Gas service due to the way in which its engineer took off the front panel of 
the gas fire. As I consider that British Gas hasnt treated Mrs Hs claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner, Im satisfied that it should place Mrs H back into the position which she 
would have been in had the damage not been caused during its service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint and I require British Gas Insurance 
Limited to either settle Mrs Hs claim by offering her a like for like replacement gas fire or a 
cash settlement equivalent to a like for like replacement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman