DRN-2012866
 
The complaint
Miss J says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 1997.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for 
the sale and this complaint. So Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to Miss J when she applied for a store card. It remained on the card 
account until 1999. During that time Miss J was charged £59.01 for PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Js complaint should not be upheld. Miss J disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint was passed to me.
In June 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send me any additional evidence they wanted me to think about. 
My provisional findings were that I was intending to uphold Miss Js complaint, my main 
reasons were:
The policy sold to Miss J contained an exclusion meaning Miss J wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been diagnosed.
I didnt think AXA made this important exclusion clear to Miss J when she was sold the 
policy.
I thought this would have made a difference to Miss J as shes told us she had a pre-
existing medical condition in 1997.
Although the medical condition had not caused Miss J to take any time off work prior to the 
sale I still thought I should uphold this complaint. Thats because the point of the insurance 
was to protect her payments in case she needed to take time off work going forward. And I 
thought Miss J would think her medical condition to be one of the more likely reasons she 
may need to take time off work in the future.
And I didnt think Miss J wouldve bought the policy if AXA had made her aware of the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions.
I also set out in my provisional findings what steps AXA needed to take to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has replied to my provisional decision and has said it has nothing to add.
Miss J has not responded to the provisional decision.
Therefore I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
June 2020.
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Miss J wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss J owed when she closed the 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss J would have owed 
when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should 8% a year. 
If  when AXA works out what Miss J would have owed each month without PPI  Miss J 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss J 
wouldve owed AXA something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
AXA should tell Miss J what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Miss J compensation as set out 
in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman