DRN-3520247
The complaint
Mr C complains that a finance agreement he has with BMW Financial Services GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) was misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.
If Mr C was given a false statement of fact, and if that false statement of fact led him to enter 
into an agreement he wouldnt otherwise have entered into, then Id consider the agreement 
had been misrepresented to him.
A hire purchase agreement is distinguished from other types of credit agreement because 
the consumer has an option to buy at the end of the hire period but is not committed to buy 
the goods.
Paying the option to purchase fee at the end of the agreement allows the consumer to take 
ownership of the goods. This fee can be small but is often larger than the other payments 
and is known as a 'balloon' payment. If the consumer doesn't want to take ownership of the 
goods then they won't pay the option to purchase fee - and will be required to return the 
goods.
Mr C says hes been told he took out a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement and 
not a hire purchase agreement as hed believed was the case. I can understand Mr Cs 
confusion, but I dont think hes been mis-sold this agreement. A PCP is a type of hire 
purchase agreement. Thats because it gives the consumer the option to buy at the end. 
PCP agreements tend to have larger final optional payments than would usually be present 
on more standard hire purchase agreements, but theyre hire purchase agreements 
nonetheless. 
The terms of this hire purchase agreement explained that to take ownership of the goods   
Mr C would need to make a final payment of £7,935.47 but that he didnt have to if he didnt 
want to take ownership. That was clearly set out on the first page of the agreement and was 
also explained in the Pre-Contract Credit Information form Mr C signed. I think the terms of 
the agreement were very clear and Im not persuaded they were misrepresented to Mr C.
Mr C has provided quotes from BMW for cars under a hire purchase and also under a PCP. 
The hire purchase quote doesnt mention any optional final payment, but I think thats 
because the optional final payment will have been nominal (usually about £10). The 
information provided is in short quote form and I think if the full agreement was requested 
the nominal payment would be clear.
Overall, I dont think BMWFS have done anything wrong here and Im not asking them to 
take any action.
   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman