DRN-3601499
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his account and didnt give him 
notice.
What happened
Mr G held a bank account with Barclays. In February 2021, it was closed by Barclays.
Mr G said he wasnt aware of Barclays intent to close the account and said it wasnt clear 
what was happening after the account was closed. He said staff in branch didnt know what 
was happening or where his money was.
Mr G complained to Barclays. He said he wasnt informed of the closure. And hes said he 
wasnt given access to his funds  roughly £26,000  until June 2021. Hes said not having 
access to his funds meant that hed lost out on orders for his business, which in turn meant 
hed lost roughly £20,000 in profit. He also said hed missed payments he needed to make 
and that this ad adversely affected his credit file.
Barclays said it told Mr G 62 days prior to closing his account that it intended to do so. It 
says this is more than the regulations require. It did however acknowledge that after the 
account was closed, Mr G was given incorrect information in relation to accessing his funds. 
It offered £200 in compensation, and it offered to pay interest on Mr Gs funds while he didnt 
have access to it.
Mr G wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators thought Barclays needed to increase its offer of compensation. It agreed, and 
increased its offer to £450. Our investigator didnt think Mr G had proven his loss of profit 
and thought Barclays had notified Mr G of the account closure in advance.
Mr G remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
Mr G was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Im satisfied Barclays wrote to Mr G to tell him it was closing his account. I appreciate 
Mr G says he never received this letter. But Im satisfied Barclays sent it. I cant fairly 
hold Barclays responsible for Mr G not receiving it.
Barclays has explained the reason it closed Mr Gs account. And Im satisfied thats 
reasonable. The terms of the account allow Barclays to close it. And Im satisfied its 
given enough notice of its intent to do so.
As Im satisfied Barclays gave enough notice, I dont hold it responsible for any 
missed payments because Barclays gave Mr G enough notice to move the funds 
prior to closing the account. Equally I dont hold Barclays responsible for Mr Gs 
alleged loss of profit for the same reason.
Im not persuaded Mr G has evidenced his loss of profit. Hes sent us a number of 
invoices, all varying slightly, and while hes explained the variation, it does make it 
difficult to know which one is correct. Whats more the invoice for the purchase of 
goods, and the sale of goods contains a different level of stock - the purchase invoice 
shows 2,100 units whereas the sales invoice shows 3,900 units. And even if the 
invoices were directly comparable in terms of the units contained, Im not satisfied 
the difference between the two is 100% profit. There will likely be operating costs 
involved, and I think its more likely than not that at least one of the transactions 
would be liable to some form of taxation. Further, Im not satisfied this was a 
guaranteed purchase or sale. Ive seen an email from the proposed buyer confirming 
they are happy to procced, but its not clear this email relates directly to this sale. Ive 
also not been provided anything to show either the purchase or sale of goods 
couldnt proceed solely due to the money in this account being held by Barclays. In 
any case, as above, Im satisfied Barclays gave Mr G enough notice of the account 
closure prior to it happening to enable him to make alternative arrangements.
Barclays did however give misleading information when Mr G wanted to access his 
funds after the account had closed. And it took too long for Mr G to gain access to 
those funds.
But, as Mr G hasnt been able to satisfy a financial loss for the reasons set out 
above, I consider Barclays offer of £450 compensation in addition to the interest on 
the funds while Mr G didnt have access to them, fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Barclays, if its not done so already should pay Mr g 
the compensation its agreed to pay set out above. If it has paid already, it need do 
no more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman