DRN-3300159
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lost her sons provisional driving 
licence when she applied to have him as an additional card holder on her credit card 
account.
What happened
Mrs M says she has a credit card account with Halifax that shes had for many years. In 
October 2021, Mrs M applied to add her son as an additional card holder on her account. 
Along with the application form, Mrs M says Halifax asked her to send in the original copy of 
her sons provisional driving licence and a bank statement in order for the application to be 
processed. Mrs M says she sent these documents on 24 October 2021 in a prepaid self-
addressed envelope which Halifax provided to her. Mrs M has provided us with a copy of a 
receipt where she paid an additional £1.40 for documents to be signed for upon Halifax 
receiving them.
Mrs M says she waited some time for her sons provisional driving licence and bank 
statement to be returned. On 10 November 2021, Mrs M called Halifax to find out when the 
documents were going to be returned and was told at this point it could take up to 30 days. 
Mrs M says she made Halifax aware her son was due to have his driving test on 9 
December 2021, so he needed his provisional driving licence back in time. A few weeks 
later, Mrs M didnt receive the documents, so she called Halifax again. Mrs M says she was 
told the same thing again  that it could take up to 30 days for the provisional driving licence 
to arrive and that Mrs M should have it back by the time 30 days had passed.
By 1 December 2021, the provisional driving licence hadnt arrived. So, Mrs M went into her 
local Halifax branch to see if they could help retrieve these documents  Mrs M says she 
chose to go to the branch as she struggled to get through to anyone when calling Halifax 
and was repeatedly told the documents would be returned in 30 days. The manager of the 
branch eventually found out that Mrs Ms sons provisional driving licence had been lost. As 
a result, Mrs M spent a lot of time trying to get a replacement provisional licence sent out, 
but that this wouldnt have arrived in time for her sons driving test as it couldnt be arranged 
for faster delivery. 
Mrs M says she also spent several hours contacting local driving instructors to see if there 
was a possibility her son could change his driving test date to allow for more time for his 
replacement provisional licence to arrive. However, Mrs M says she was told the earliest 
available test date wasnt until May 2022. Mrs M says her son had to go abroad for voluntary 
work for two years and was due to fly out in January 2022. As a result, he hasnt been able 
to take his driving test. Mrs M says had Halifax told her when she first contacted them early 
November 2021 that theyd lost her sons provisional driving licence, she couldve applied for 
a replacement licence a lot sooner than she did. And so, her son might not have had to miss 
out on his driving test.
Halifax apologised for losing Mrs Ms sons provisional driving license and offered Mrs M 
£100 compensation for the inconvenience caused to her, £44 for call and travel expenses 
plus £89 to cover the cost of the replacement driving licence and the cancelled driving test. 
In total, this came to £233.
Mrs M didnt accept this as she says her son wont be returning to the UK until two years 
time. By this point, hell need to take his theory driving test again, his practical driving test 
and more lessons as he wouldnt have driven for two years. So, Mrs M asked for more 
compensation.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns. In summary, she said while there was no 
record of Mrs M sending her sons driving licence in the prepaid envelope, Halifax confirmed 
they received the bank statement. So, its likely his provisional driving licence was sent in the 
same envelope that included the bank statement and application form. With that in mind, our 
Investigator assessed the impact Halifaxs error had on Mrs M when they lost her sons 
provisional driving licence. Having looked at what Halifax had already offered Mrs M, our 
Investigator felt the offer of £44 to cover travel and call costs and also the offer of £89 to 
cover the cost of the replacement provisional licence and rebooking the driving test was fair. 
However, our Investigator said that as Mrs Ms son wasnt a customer of Halifaxs at the 
time, she wasnt able to consider the impact this error has had on him. So, when considering 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs M, she felt Halifax should increase their 
compensation award to £250 from £100. Overall, our Investigator recommended Halifax pay 
Mrs M a total of £383.  
Mrs M disagreed. She said she was caused a lot of inconvenience trying to resolve this 
issue and that it was frustrating given the tight timescales she was trying to get things sorted 
for her son. Mrs M said she called Halifax three times and each time was told that it could 
take up to 30 days before the documents were returned. Mrs M added she was given wrong 
information initially when she was told to send in an original copy of her sons driving licence 
 when she called in November 2021, she was told she could have taken her son to a 
branch with his passport in order to verify his identity. Mrs M also said while our Investigator 
said she couldnt consider the impact this error had on her son, the effect it had on him was 
felt very much by Mrs M as his mother. Instead, Mrs M says she feels £600 compensation in 
total is a more appropriate and acceptable award. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax have acknowledged something went wrong  theyve said they never received the 
provisional licence and that it appears to have been separated from the application form and 
bank statement by the time it had reached them. As our Investigator suggested, Mrs M used 
Halifaxs prepaid envelope to send the documents and I can see Halifax confirmed receipt of 
the bank statement which Mrs M says was sent along with her sons provisional driving 
licence. And I cant see any particular reason why the driving licence may have been 
separated from the other contents of the envelope before it reached Halifax. Therefore, I 
think its more likely than not that Mrs M did send her sons provisional driving licence within 
the prepaid envelope Halifax provided to her, and I think its likely Halifax lost it.
Halifax have recognised the service given to Mrs M could have been better  theyve 
acknowledged their internal notes on 2 November 2021 confirmed that they werent able to 
add Mrs Ms son to the account as photo identification was required. So, they were aware at 
this point the provisional licence was missing and they acknowledge they ought to have told 
Mrs M this a lot sooner rather than telling her she should wait 30 days for the documents to 
be returned on more than one occasion.Mrs M made several calls to Halifax in order to try and find out when the documents were 
going to be returned. Mrs M says she was often kept on hold for long periods of time before 
she eventually got through to anyone who repeatedly told her to wait 30 days for the 
documents to be returned. When they werent returned by 1 December 2021, Mrs M visited 
her local Halifax branch to see if they could help her retrieve the documents. By this point, it 
had been more than 30 days since Mrs M sent the documents on 25 October 2021. Given 
what Mrs M had been told previously about waiting for 30 days and as she was trying to sort 
the matter quickly for her son so he could take his driving test, I can understand why Mrs M 
chose to visit her local branch rather than call Halifaxs helpline again as she felt she wasnt 
being helped. And I understand why this would have been inconvenient for her.
In terms of putting things right for Mrs M, Halifax offered to pay £89 which included a cost for 
the replacement provisional driving licence. This is what Mrs M wanted and I think its likely a 
loss she wouldve incurred. I say this because on balance, its not unreasonable to think that 
she may have had to reimburse her son for the loss of his provisional licence as a result of 
her sending off the application. From my research, a replacement provisional driving licence 
cost £20. So, with that in mind, as Halifaxs offer covers the cost of the licence in addition to 
the cost of the cancelled driving test, I think this part of their offer is fair. Halifax also offered 
to refund Mrs M £44 to cover call costs and for the travel she made to her local branch to 
find out where her sons provisional licence was. And I think this part of their offer is fair as I 
think it fairly compensates Mrs M for the financial cost of calls she had to make to try and 
sort the matter out.
In addition to these costs, Mrs M wants Halifax to reimburse her son for things such as the 
cost of retaking his driving test once he returns home from being abroad. And to also 
reimburse him for the cost of having to retake his theory test as Mrs M says hell need to 
redo this by the time hes back. Mrs M says that her son will also need to take further driving 
lessons once he returns, as he wouldnt have driven for two years. So, Mrs M wants Halifax 
to pay for these too. 
However, I cant ask Halifax to consider any losses that Mrs Ms son may have suffered. I 
say this because hes an additional cardholder on the account  Mrs M is the account holder 
and only she would be entitled to any award I make.
Even if I could consider awarding Mrs Ms son for the losses she describes, I still dont think 
it would be fair for me to ask Halifax to pay more compensation for some of the other things 
shes mentioned. I say this because, the outcome of a driving test isnt guaranteed. So, Mrs 
Ms son may still have found himself in the same position he is now had he been able to take 
the test. So, in this case, its fair that Halifax compensate Mrs M for the actual losses, which 
they have done.
I appreciate Mrs M says the impact, distress and inconvenience in sorting things for her son, 
not only in terms of trying to find out where his provisional driving licence had gone but also 
in trying to postpone his upcoming driving test, was very much felt by her. I can understand 
why Mrs M felt like this  its clear Mrs M was inconvenienced, and I think Halifaxs service 
could have been better. But I think the £250 compensation award our Investigator 
recommended is fair to address this inconvenience. 
Putting things right
So, in total, Halifax should pay Mrs M £383  this includes:
£89 for the replacement provisional driving licence and cost of the cancelled driving 
test that Halifax already offered Mrs M.£44 for the call and travel costs.
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to carry out the actions Ive set out in the putting things right section of 
this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman