DRN-3349120
The complaint
Mrs E complains that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly removed
cover for pre-existing conditions on her pet insurance policy
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs E had a pet insurance policy with UKI for one of her dogs, and another one with a 
different provider for her other dog. Both covered her for pre-existing conditions (PECs). 
Mrs E called UKI to get a new policy with it, to replace the one she had with a different 
provider. She took the policy out over the phone and cancelled the one with the other 
provider.
When Mrs E went to make a claim for her dog UKI said shed answered the questions about 
her dogs conditions incorrectly. It considered this a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it do decline her claim and remove the cover for PECs. But UKI didnt think it 
was fair to not pay Mrs Es claim, so it paid it. But it still removed the cover for PECs when 
the policy renewed.
Mrs E wasnt happy with this and complained to UKI. She said she took the policy out to be 
covered for PECs. And had she known she wouldnt be covered for them with UKI, shed   
have stayed with the previous provider. UKI didnt change its stance, so, Mrs E brought her 
complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Es complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. 
He didnt think Mrs E had made a careless misrepresentation, but thought it was fair for UKI 
to remove the cover for PECs when the policy renewed as, ultimately, that renewal was a 
new contract.
Mrs E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, the case has come to me.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
UKI thinks Mrs E failed to take reasonable care when she was asked about the conditions 
her dog had. It says it wasnt told about a number of conditions, but the key condition it 
wasnt told about was Mrs Es dogs hind limb stiffness. It said had it known about this, it 
wouldnt have offered cover for any PECs.
UKI has provided evidence in the form of its underwriting criteria that shows that if it were 
aware of Mrs Es pets hindlimb stiffness, it wouldnt have offered cover. 
UKI has said it wasnt fair to not pay for Mrs Es claim, because it wasnt clear that she 
should have disclosed the hind limb stiffness as a condition. And for this same reason, I 
dont think its fair, or in line with CIDRA that UKI remove cover for PECs. 
CIDRA required Mrs C to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation to UKI when 
she took out the policy. And in this case, Im satisfied she did. UKI have acknowledged that 
its not clear Mrs E was aware that her dog had hind limb stiffness, let alone know it was 
what UKI considered a condition. UKI acknowledge We do not think we can evidence that 
the customer should reasonably have had an awareness that the pet had HL stiffness as a 
condition which needed to be declared. The pet has never had any treatment for this. the pet 
has never been taken to the vet for this - it has just been noted when being seen for other 
things. Therefore we feel it is unfair to expect the customer to declare it. And I agree with 
this finding. I dont think its reasonable to require Mrs E to let UKI know about a condition 
she didnt even know was a condition herself.
It should be noted that UKI tried to treat Mrs E fairly here by paying her claim  which is 
encouraging. But its gone far enough. I dont think Mrs E failed to take reasonable care 
when answering the question she was asked about her dogs conditions, so I dont think UKI 
can alter the contract it entered into on the basis its now found out about the hind limb 
stiffness.
Mrs E took the policy out on the basis it covered her for PECs year on year up to a set limit. 
Not having cover for those PECs fundamentally changes the cover Mrs E has which I dont 
find fair. The intention of this policy is to cover ongoing conditions, including some pre-
existing ones. But the policy now offers now offers less cover than the policy she took out 
with UKI, and less cover than the cover with her previous provider. This puts Mrs E in a 
much worse position, through no fault of her own. I appreciate that UKI wouldnt have offered 
this cover had it known about the hind limb stiffness. But as Mrs E didnt fail to take 
reasonable care, its not though any fault on her part that she didnt let UKI know.
CIDRA only allows UKI to alter the terms of the policy if a qualifying misrepresentation has 
been made. And as explained, Mrs E didnt fail to take reasonable care, so, there is no 
qualifying misrepresentation.
So, to put things right I think UKI should continue to offer cover on the terms the of the 
contract as it was entered into. For clarity that means including cover for PECs on an 
ongoing basis until the policy limits are reached.
I went on to say that Id consider further comments and evidence that I get. But that unless 
the information changed my mind, my provisional decision was likely to be to require UKI to 
amend the policy terms to the ones that were in place at the policy inception. For the
avoidance of doubt, this included reinstating cover for PECs on an ongoing basis until
any policy limits  set at inception  are reached.
Mrs E accepted the decision and had nothing further to add.UKI simply confirmed it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive had no further comments or evidence to consider following my provisional decision, I 
see no reason to depart from its findings or reasoning. 
Therefore, my final decision reaches the same outcome, for the same reasons as set out in 
that provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold Mrs Es complaint. To put things right I require U K 
Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to:
Amend the policy terms to the ones that were in place at the policy inception. For the 
avoidance of doubt, this includes reinstating cover for PECs on an ongoing basis until 
any policy limits  set at inception  are reached
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman