DRN-3094034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax has lost money held in a 
savings account. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they found an old Halifax passbook in December 2020. The passbook 
showed Mr and Mrs S account balance was £4,400 in February 2000 following a cheque 
deposit. 
Mr and Mrs S were asked to complete an account tracing form. Halifax later responded and 
said their account had been closed on 27 March 2000 with a balance of £4,537.37. Mr and 
Mrs S say they were told the funds were transferred to another Halifax account. Mr and Mrs 
S went on to complain. 
Halifax didnt uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint and it was referred to this service. Mr and Mrs 
S told our investigator they wouldnt have closed the account without using the passbook. 
Theyve also queried why Halifax is able to provide some information but cant say where 
their money was sent. The investigator thought Halifax had dealt with Mr and Mrs S 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr and Mrs S asked to appeal, so their 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S remain concerned that they havent received direct 
evidence that shows what happened to their savings account. Theres a substantial amount 
of money involved in this case and I can see Mr and Mrs S strength of feeling that they 
wouldnt have closed the account without using the passbook. But I have to take both parties 
points and evidence into account when deciding how to resolve a complaint. 
Halifax has explained that its only able to provide a limited amount of information. The 
passbook was last updated in February 2000 and Halifax says the account was closed a 
short time later. Its now over twenty years since Halifax says the account was closed. 
Businesses dont have to retain information indefinitely and I accept the passage of time 
means Halifaxs ability to provide supporting information has been impacted. 
Halifax has found some systems information. The systems information says the passbook 
was recorded as lost by Halifax. Mr and Mrs S have asked how the account was closed if 
they were still in possession of the passbook. But Halifax had processes in place if a 
passbook was lost and it was possible to close an account and withdraw the funds saved 
without the original. 
Halifaxs systems information also shows the savings account was closed on 27 March 2020 
with a balance of £4,537.37 being released. I also note the information Halifax has on file 
shows Mr and Mrs S account balance and interest paid going back to 1983. The information 
showing interest paid stops in March 2000 when Halifax says the account was closed. 
Searches have also been made to see whether the funds were moved to a dormant account. 
I can see Halifax has searched its records and registers but been unable to find any dormant 
accounts in Mr and Mrs S name. 
Where information is incomplete or disputed by the parties involved, Ill base my decision on 
the balance of probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based on all 
the available evidence and information. Whilst I dont doubt Mr and Mrs S strength of 
feeling, Im satisfied the available information shows Halifax most likely closed Mr and Mrs S 
account on 27 March 2000 as it claims and paid the funds to them. On balance, I think the 
fact the passbook was recorded as lost in 2000 shows the account was closed without it 
being presented in branch. I dont agree the information on file supports Mr and Mrs S view 
that the account remained active and open. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but as Im satisfied Halifax dealt with their complaint 
fairly Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman