DRN-4417159
The complaint
The executors of Mr Ms estate have complained about a lifetime mortgage he and the late 
Mrs M took out in 2006, which was later owned by Landmark Mortgages Limited. The 
executors believe the mortgage was mis-sold and they are unhappy about how Landmark 
dealt with the mortgage and communications with the executors following Mr Ms death, 
which they consider has meant the debt has increased when it should not have and they 
have incurred other costs. In addition, the executors have questioned why the monthly 
payments that had been made to Mr M were stopped when he died, as they believe they 
should have continued until the mortgage debt was repaid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took the mortgage with the original lender in 2006. It provided them with an 
initial lump sum of just over £20,000 and a monthly income of £736 for the lifetime of the 
mortgage.
The mortgage terms and conditions detailed that the total debt owed was due to be paid to 
the lender on the death of the borrower. It also confirmed that Interest will be debited to the 
account set up under the mortgage and will accrue until the Total Debt has been repaid in 
full.
The mortgage offer stated that the amount of the Monthly Cash Release is fixed for the 
lifetime of this mortgage and Once the monthly cash release is set, it cannot be stopped 
or suspended unless the mortgage is redeemed.
Mrs M died in early 2022 and Mr M in July 2022. The relatives who were subsequently 
appointed as the executors of Mr Ms estate informed Landmark of Mr Ms death at the end 
of July 2022. They asked Landmark questions about the mortgage and what then needed to 
happen. However, Landmark informed them that until it received the death certificate, it was 
unable to provide the information needed for Grant of Probate (GoP) to be obtained. 
Landmark said that it would obtain a copy of the death certificate, but also gave the relatives 
the option to send in the death certificate themselves to speed the process up. Furthermore, 
Landmark explained that GoP would be needed before any further details of the mortgage 
could be provided. The relatives complained. 
While Landmark had confirmed that it was unable to provide the mortgage balance until the 
death certificate was received, it did so on 5 September 2022. This allowed GoP to be 
applied for.
Landmark responded to the complaint in its letter of 6 October 2022. It initially apologised for 
having mis-spelt the relatives surname and for some grammatical errors contained in its 
letter of 16 August 2022. However, it said that it provided some basic information regarding 
the mortgage to assist with obtaining GoP, but without that document, it was limited in the 
information it could provide. It was also confirmed that Landmark didnt have the facilities for 
customers to visit its offices, which was why it had denied their request to do so. 
The GoP, confirming the executors, was issued on 25 October 2022. By this point a 
complaint had already been raised with the Financial Ombudsman Service about both the 
sale of the mortgage and how Landmark had behaved since being informed of Mr Ms death.
Landmark didnt consider the complaint about the mis-selling of the mortgage fell within our 
jurisdiction. One of my Ombudsman colleagues considered our jurisdiction to consider the 
different aspects of the complaint. They concluded the mis-sale part of the complaint didnt 
fall within our jurisdiction and so we could not consider its merits. As such, we would only 
consider the element of the complaint relating to the service Landmark had provided from 
August 2022.
Following this, one of our Investigators considered that part of the complaint. He didnt 
recommend it be upheld.
The executors did not accept the Investigators conclusions and asked that the complaint be 
referred to an Ombudsman. They raised a new point in that they said they considered the 
valuation that had been completed had been irrelevant. They highlighted that they 
considered the support they received was inadequate. This is because the Regulator 
requires firms to put their customers needs first, but Landmarks process did not do that. 
They reiterated that they had not needed GoP and had been forced into applying for it by 
Landmark, with the associated costs.
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his conclusions and the complaint was 
referred for consideration by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We review our jurisdiction to consider a complaint at each stage of our process. Having done 
so, I agree with my Ombudsman colleagues conclusion that the complaint about the 
mortgage having allegedly been mis-sold does not fall within our jurisdiction. I would also 
confirm that this service can only consider complaints where the responsible financial 
business has had the opportunity to respond. As such, if the executors now have concerns 
about the fact that Landmark had a valuation completed on the property following Mr Ms 
death, they should raise it with Landmark in the first instance.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executors have commented that the Regulator requires a financial business to support 
its customers when they are in need and that is the case. However, in this case the 
executors when speaking to Landmark initially could not have been considered a customer. 
They were relatives of a customer, but at that time Landmark had not received confirmation 
of Mr Ms death in the form of a death certificate, nor had it had confirmation that his 
relatives had the right to represent his estate. A lender has a responsibility to only release 
information to those authorised to receive it, and that authorisation - in the form of the GoP - 
didnt exist until late October 2022.  As such, I cant find that Landmark acted inappropriately 
in not providing information to the executors until it was firstly satisfied that Mr M had passed 
away, and secondly until the individual contacting it had evidenced that he was the legal 
representative of the estate.
I note that the executors have said that there was no value in the estate and as such GoP 
was not needed. This means they consider they were put to expense and time that was not necessary. They are correct that in cases of an estate with little value to it, GoP is not always 
needed. However, I note the GoP provided to this service detailed a net estate value of well 
over £40,000, which would not have fallen to be described as a small estate. So it would 
appear the executors would always have had to apply for GoP in order to settle the estate, 
whether they sold the property or Landmark did after repossession. 
In relation to the matter of interest being charged on the outstanding debt following Mr Ms 
death, the mortgage terms and conditions provide for this. Furthermore, it is normal within 
financial services for a debt to attract interest until it is repaid. I cant find that Landmark 
acted inappropriately in continuing to charge interest on the mortgage balance until it was 
repaid. 
As for the matter of the monthly income the mortgage arrangement had provided to Mr M, it 
was not unreasonable for this to be stopped upon his death. The executors have correctly 
highlighted that the mortgage offer says that this cant be stopped unless the mortgage was 
redeemed. The offer also stated that it was payable for the lifetime of the mortgage. As has 
previously been pointed out, the mortgage contract ended when Mr M died and the total debt 
became payable. It would have been inappropriate for further income payments to be made 
when there was no longer a contract that required that to happen. In addition, as our 
Investigator pointed out, it would not have advantaged Mr Ms estate if payments had 
continued. The estate may have had additional funds in Mr Ms bank account (assuming the 
providers had allowed the payments to be received), but the mortgage debt would have 
gone up by the amount of the payments and additional interest would have been charged. 
I can understand that the executors found the process with Landmark frustrating, but that 
doesnt mean that it did anything wrong. In refusing to provide information before it had 
received confirmation of Mr Ms death and then GoP, it was protecting his privacy, as it was 
required to do. The fact that other businesses may have taken a different approach does not 
mean that Landmark did anything wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask the estate of Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 November 2023.  
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman