DRN-4144775
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) provided poor service 
when they visited in branch, which exacerbated Mrs Bs medical condition.
For ease, I will refer to any actions and comments as those of Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B unfortunately suffered from a medical condition that, amongst other things, caused 
tremors that affected her ability to write and sign her name. So Mrs B arranged for NatWest 
to provide her with a signature stamp. 
The stamp was ready for collection from a NatWest branch in December 2022 and Mrs B 
said she was told to take photographic ID when picking it up. Once in branch, Mrs B was told 
that the stamp had to be signed for before it could be given to her. So Mrs B had to sign her 
name a number of times, which she said caused a great deal of stress and embarrassment. 
On the same day, Mrs B said she developed a facial tic, followed by severe slurring of 
speech, and visited her local A&E department. Mrs B said she spent seven days in hospital 
undergoing a variety of tests. Mrs B said she lost the ability to speak, which she said doctors 
attributed to her existing medical condition.
Mrs B complained to NatWest about her experience in branch and the impact it had on her 
health. She said shed arranged private speech and language therapy and asked NatWest to 
cover the cost, as well as providing compensation for the stress and anxiety caused.
 
NatWest responded and agreed it provided poor service. It said while it usually asked 
customers to sign forms in order to collect signature stamps, this wasnt required for 
customers who had lost all dexterity. So Mrs B shouldnt have been asked to sign. By way of 
an apology, it offered Mrs B £750 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused. 
NatWest said it would not pay for the private speech therapy undertaken by Mrs B, as it said 
Mrs B had chosen to pay privately rather than use the NHS. It said there was no evidence to 
suggest NatWest was solely responsible for Mrs Bs ill health and so it couldnt accept 
responsibility for Mrs Bs ongoing medical issues. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to this Service. She said stress was a major factor in relation to 
her medical condition, and the interactions with the NatWest adviser in branch left her feeling 
very stressed, frightened and anxious. She said being unable to write and speak made 
communicating very difficult. Mrs B wanted NatWest to acknowledge that its policy of getting 
someone to sign for a signature stamp was ludicrous and asked for compensation for the 
stress and trauma this matter has caused. 
Our Investigator didnt think NatWest needed to do anything further. She said NatWest had a 
system in place where Mrs B shouldnt have been asked to sign for the stamp, and the 
adviser should have adhered to this. Our Investigator said she cant fairly say that Mrs B 
losing her speech was caused solely by this event, that it was down to her previously 
diagnosed condition. So she didnt think it was fair to ask NatWest to pay for private speech 
therapy and thought the £750 already offered by NatWest fairly reflected the level of distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs B responded and said she felt she would still be able to speak if she hadnt visited the 
branch. She said she opted for private speech therapy because of the length of time it would 
take to access it on the NHS. As Mrs B didnt agree, this came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B and the difficulties she faces everyday as a result 
of her medical condition. But I am not asking NatWest to take any further action here, and Ill 
explain why. 
NatWest has already acknowledged that it made an error when its adviser asked Mrs B to 
sign her name numerous times before the adviser would give her the signature stamp. It said 
that while it usually requires a signature to be provided, an exception should have been 
made in Mrs Bs case. So NatWest should have done more to take Mrs Bs vulnerabilities 
into consideration and should have deviated from its usual processes. 
Its clear the interaction at the NatWest branch caused Mrs B a great deal of distress. So in a 
situation like this, where a business has made an error and the consumer has been caused 
distress, I would expect the business to consider the overall impact on the consumer and 
award fair compensation. 
Mrs Bs vulnerabilities mean she most likely experienced a great deal more distress than an 
error of this kind might otherwise have caused. Its clear from what Mrs B has said that her 
condition is made worse when she becomes stressed. So the interaction in the branch 
exacerbated her stress levels and left her feeling embarrassed and anxious. And I think that 
NatWest has taken this into consideration when it awarded £750, which I consider to be a 
fair amount of compensation. I can see that NatWest has also apologised to Mrs B. 
Mrs B would like NatWest to pay for the private speech therapy undertaken by her after she 
became unable to speak. But while I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B, as its clear 
shes unwell, I dont think it would be fair  and I have to be fair to both parties  to ask 
NatWest to do this. 
This is because while it might well be the case that stressful situations, such as the 
interaction at the bank, exacerbate Mrs Bs condition, the fact is she was already unwell prior 
to her visit to the bank  she had already been diagnosed and was living with her medical 
condition. I note that the doctors who treated her in hospital in December 2022 referred to 
her loss of speech as a further functional neurological episode. So its because Mrs B was 
already unwell before she went into her local branch that I dont think it would be fair to hold 
NatWest responsible for a deterioration in her condition to the extent that it should fund 
treatment for Mrs B. Im satisfied its enough that it has awarded fair compensation that takes 
into consideration that Mrs B would have experienced a greater level of distress as a result 
of her vulnerabilities. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs B, but I am not asking NatWest to take any further 
action.My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman