DRN-1116209
The complaint
Mr M complains about how The Co-operative Bank Plc dealt with his application for a Future 
Fund account. 
What happened
On 22 February 2019 Mr M attended a Co-op branch to open a Future Fund account for his 
daughter. He completed an application form and took all the information Co-op needed with 
him. Mr M said Co-op told him the new account would take a few days to set up.
In March 2019 Mr M received a letter from Co-op explaining that his Future Fund account 
application was nearly complete. Mr M contacted Co-op to query why his application was 
taking so long to process. He said Co-op told him it would need his daughters birth 
certificate. But Mr M said hed provided that when he attended the branch the previous 
month. So, Co-op told him to contact the branch he had attended so clarify this.
When Mr M made further enquiries with Co-op it informed him that the application he had 
made in branch in February had been input but not processed beyond that stage. It accepted 
that he had provided all the required documentation in branch that day. So, it admitted his 
application should have been processed. It explained that, on 7 March, Mr Ms application 
was fully entered on its system but his daughters middle name was omitted in error  so the 
application couldnt be processed. It said this led to the application expiring on 4 April. At this 
point, Co-op said branch staff cloned the information Mr M had provided over to a new 
application. The missing middle name was added and the Future Fund account was fully 
opened on 18 April 2019.
Mr M was unhappy with the delay hed experienced in opening the account and that he had 
been asked to provide information hed already given Co-op. He was also concerned that 
Co-op had performed a credit check without his permission. So, he complained about what 
had happened. 
After Co-op investigated Mr Ms complaint it accepted it had made errors in opening the 
account and it recognised he had experienced delay and received poor service. It 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience this had caused and offered to pay Mr M £150 
compensation, which he rejected.
Mr M was dissatisfied with how Co-op had responded to his complaint and he felt the 
compensation it had offered him didnt go far enough. So he referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator assessed the evidence Mr M and Co-op had provided but didnt 
uphold this complaint. While they empathised with Mr M they didnt think that Co-op needed 
to do anything more here. They thought that the compensation it had already offered was 
appropriate and fair. But Mr M disagreed with our investigators view and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both us and Co-op. And thats not surprising. I can appreciate how upsetting it must 
have been for him not to have had his Future Funds opened earlier and I can understand the 
inconvenience the delays he experienced caused.
There are three parts to Mr Ms complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Co-ops errors and compensation offer
Co-op has already accepted it made a number of errors during the account opening process, 
which caused delay and inconvenience. And it acknowledged that there was a shortfall in the 
service Mr M received. Co-op opened the account Mr M wanted within around eight weeks 
of him submitting his application. So, the issue here is whether it acted fairly and reasonably 
in offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Co-op undertook a full investigation into what 
happened here. And Im satisfied it candidly and correctly accepted responsibility for the 
errors it made.  
Co-op has offered Mr M £150 to compensate him for the impact its mistake had. Mr M 
referred his complaint to our service because he didnt think this amount adequately 
reflected his inconvenience and experience. But, Im afraid I have to tell Mr M that I agree 
with our investigators view. Im persuaded that £150 is a fair amount of compensation for 
Co-op to pay for the distress and inconvenience he suffered. Indeed, theres not a great deal 
I can add to what our investigators already told Mr M. I think they set out the position very 
clearly and thoroughly.
We arent here to punish businesses and, to put things right, Id have asked Co-op to 
apologise and pay compensation for the trouble and upset Mr M was caused. I can see Co-
op has already apologised and offered compensation. So, Ive considered whether its offer 
was a fair and reasonable amount.
The compensation amount Co-op has already offered Mr M is towards the lower end of the 
range for the category that this service would describe as moderate. I think thats a fair 
description of the difficulties Mr M had here. I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that a higher award is warranted here. And Im satisfied that amount already offered by Co-
op is in line with our approach in similar scenarios  so I wont be ordering Co-op to increase 
its offer. I understand this compensation has now been paid to Mr M. 
Credit searches
Mr M believes that credit searches were undertaken. But Co-op said it doesnt undertake a 
credit search during the account opening process for a Future Fund account as this account 
is for a child. 
I understand why Mr M would be concerned by a credit search. However, Id like to reassure 
him that Co-op has shown me evidence, which satisfies me that it hasnt undertaken or 
recorded a credit search against his name. So, Im not going to tell Co-op to pay 
compensation in relation to this aspect of Mr Ms complaint.
Loss of interestMr M told our investigator he would have transferred £5000 to his daughters account. So, he 
feels the delay in opening the account caused a loss of interest. And he wants Co-op to 
backdate the interest he would have received. This complaint point wasnt raised by Mr M 
when he initially referred his complaint to our service. But Co-op consented to us considering 
this issue.
As I explained in the background to this complaint the account for Mr Ms daughter was 
opened on 18 April 2019. This meant that the account was able to receive deposits from that 
date onwards. However, I understand that the £5000 hadnt been deposited by the time Mr 
M raised this additional complaint point. 
I appreciate that there was a delay in this account opening of around eight weeks. But I think 
if Mr M had been concerned about losing interest hed have invested the money in question 
as soon as the account had been opened. Mr M said he didnt deposit the funds because he 
wanted to wait until his complaint had been resolved by our service. But Im not persuaded 
by that argument. This was an interest bearing account  so Mr Ms ought to have known 
that his money would have accrued interest once deposited. And I can see nothing that 
prevented him from depositing his £5000 from 18 April onwards.
I dont doubt that Mr M had the funds in question available. But, I havent seen enough 
evidence that persuades me that Mr M had an intention of transferring those funds to the 
account. And, in these circumstances, it would be unfair for me to ask Co-op to backdate 
interest on any money Mr M wishes to now deposit. 
I understand Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Co-op informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr 
M any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman