DRN-4414833
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain about Great Lakes Insurance SEs service and settlement for their 
repatriation claim under their travel insurance. My references to Great Lakes include its 
agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H bought an annual multi trip travel insurance policy. Great Lakes was the 
insurer for the travel elements of the policy.
Unfortunately on 16 September 2022 while on holiday abroad Mrs H badly broke her 
kneecap and was hospitalised. The treating doctor and Great Lakes recommended Mrs H 
have the required surgery in the relevant country. Mrs and Mr H wanted the surgery in the 
UK so Great Lakes returned Mrs H to a UK hospital for surgery by air ambulance.
The main points of Mrs and Mr Hs complaint are:
Great Lakes service around Mrs Hs repatriation was poorly coordinated and it took 
too long to return Mrs H to the UK. The agreement had been that the air ambulance 
could fly Mrs H home when a hospital bed was arranged for her arrival. But 
arrangements cant have been made for admission at the UK hospital because Mrs H 
was left in A&E for hours. The treating doctor abroad had recommended the surgery 
be completed within 10 days of the injury. The operation didnt happen until two days 
after her arrival in the UK, 12 days after the injury.
Mr H and Mrs Hs two adult children in the UK had to make around 100 calls to 
Great Lakes to chase the repatriation plan. 
The £700 hospital daily benefit Great Lakes paid didnt include all the expenses 
theyd incurred, some of which it had agreed to cover. Those expenses were:
oMr Hs taxi fares to and from the hospital abroad between 17 to 20 September 
2022.
oCar rental and fuel for 21 to 25 September 2022.
oMr Hs taxi fare to the UK airport they had flown from to collect their vehicle as 
the air ambulance went to another airport local to the hospital where Mrs H 
was admitted. 
oCovid-19 tests required for Mrs H to be admitted to hospital abroad.
oParking costs in the UK and the cost for hiring a wheelchair in the UK.
They think Great Lakes should pay them for cutting short their holiday from the time 
Mrs H was hospitalised.
They think Great Lakes should pay Mrs H compensation for her reduced mobility due 
to the accident.
Great Lakes said:
It acknowledged and apologised that there were some technical issues with the 
phone lines, which were also very busy at times when Mr H and their family were 
calling. 
It had acted on Mrs and Mr Hs requests for the repatriation and followed protocols. 
When a repatriation is being organised the air ambulance company needs 
confirmation that a hospital bed is available at an appropriate facility before accepting 
the job.
The policy didnt cover taxi, hire car or fuel costs. 
The cost of the Covid-19 tests were higher than the claim excess so wasnt paid.
Our investigator said Great Lakes had unreasonably dealt with the claim. She recommended 
Great Lakes pay:
Mrs and Mr H £200 compensation for their distress and inconvenience due to its poor 
service.
The taxi, hire car and fuel costs abroad, less the £700 benefit Great Lakes had 
already paid, plus interest.
The taxi cost in the UK for Mr H to collect his vehicle, plus interest.
The Covid-19 tests, plus interest if Mrs and Mr H had already paid the hospital.
Our investigator also recommended Great Lakes assess a curtailment claim in line with the 
policy terms.
Great Lakes disagreed with the recommendations. It said it had no records of telling Mrs and 
Mr H the taxi costs were covered. It didnt think any compensation was due for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs and Mr H by the short delay in repatriation and our 
investigator had said the additional information it had requested was reasonable. It 
confirmed it would consider a curtailment claim from 16 to 20 September 2022.
Our investigator told Great Lakes the dates it had confirmed it would pay the taxi costs and 
explained that her compensation recommendation was mainly about Great Lakes poor 
communication. She asked for Great Lakes response and told it that if it didnt respond 
within a given date the complaint would be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes hasnt responded to our investigators clarified recommendation at the time of 
my decision. Im satisfied that Great Lakes has been given reasonable time to respond and 
its fair for me to make a decision on the evidence I have.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Mrs and Mr H complaint covers many issues so Ive set out my considerations and findings 
under the relevant headings.
RepatriationIve considered the assistance companys notes, comments from the air ambulance 
company and Mrs and Mr Hs evidence.
Mr H told Great Lakes about Mrs Hs accident on 16 September. On 18 September 
Great Lakes received the medical report from the hospital abroad, which it needed before 
making plans. Mrs H was medically advised that the surgery should take place abroad which 
Great Lakes recommended. Mrs and Mr H wanted the surgery in the UK. Great Lakes 
agreed to their request and started to make arrangements for repatriation from that date. 
Although Mrs H was given a fit to fly certificate on 18 September Great Lakes needed 
clarification as to whether Mrs H could sit upright during take-off and landings. I think it was 
reasonable for Great Lakes to check those details. Once the treating doctor said Mrs H 
wasnt able to sit upright Great Lakes knew it needed to arrange an air ambulance for Mrs H 
and did so.
I dont think there was an unreasonable delay by Great Lakes in starting the repatriation 
arrangements or arranging the air ambulance. Unfortunately such arrangements generally 
take time.
The air ambulance company is separate from Great Lakes. On 23 September the air 
ambulance company told Great Lakes that a hospital bed in the UK had been found for 
Mrs H and the flight home would be 26 September. After her return the air ambulance 
company told Great Lakes that The flight went smoothly and the patient was safely handed 
over to the receiving party. 
Mrs H wasnt admitted to hospital immediately. She had an uncomfortable long wait at A&E. 
But Ive seen no evidence that Great Lakes was responsible for Mrs H not being admitted to 
the hospital straight away. 
Mrs and Mr H say she had surgery two days later than the treating doctor abroad 
recommended. But I dont think Great Lakes is responsible for that delay, it had told Mrs and 
Mr H that its recommendation was for her to have the surgery abroad. And if shed done so 
I think its probable there wouldnt have been the delay in her having surgery.
In all the circumstances I think Great Lakes made the repatriation arrangements in a 
reasonable timescale.
However, Great Lakes gave poor service in its lack of communication to Mrs and Mr H and 
their children about the repatriation plan. Great Lakes should have been more proactive in 
contacting Mrs and Mr H with updates which would have given them some reassurance that 
arrangements were being made. If Great Lakes had done so Mr H wouldnt have had the 
stress and frustration of keep trying to contact Great Lakes direct, or through their children, 
as he and Mrs H felt very vulnerable and forgotten about. 
Great Lakes poor communication caused Mrs and Mr H additional unnecessary upset and 
stress at an already very stressful time for them. And I think Great Lakes paying £200 
compensation for Mrs and Mr Hs distress and inconvenience due to its poor communication 
is a reasonable amount.
From Great Lakes notes its clear that Mrs and Mr Hs children were also very stressed by 
Great Lakes lack of updates about the repatriation plan. But I cant award them 
compensation as they arent an insured party on the policy.
Travel costs 
The policy says under the Emergency Medical & Repatriation Expenses section:Hospital Daily Benefit

What is covered:
We will pay you £50 per complete 24 hour period of in-patient treatment up to a 
maximum under this policy of £1,000 for a valid claim under Section 3a (Emergency 
Medical & Repatriation), if you are admitted to a recognised hospital abroad as an in-
patient for more than 24 continuous hours and you are treated under a reciprocal 
health agreement
This payment is to contribute towards additional expenses such as taxi fares and 
phone calls incurred during your stay in hospital.
Great Lakes paid Mrs and Mr H £700 hospital benefit payment, a reasonable amount under 
the policy terms. The policy is clear that hospital benefit is to help with costs such as taxi 
fares not otherwise covered under the policy. But Mr H says Great Lakes confirmed that 
additional expenses over the hospital benefit limit would be covered if receipts were 
provided.
Under the policy General Exclusions section taxi costs are excluded from cover apart from 
those set out under the Emergency Medical & Repatriation section, which wouldnt include 
Mr Hs journeys to see Mrs H in hospital. So those additional travel costs arent covered by 
the policy terms. 
However, Great Lakes told us in its email of 23 August 2023 that it had listened to all its calls 
to Mr H and He was wrongly told that he could claim taxis to and from the hospital. As 
Great Lakes told Mr H he could claim I think it should reasonably pay those costs.
Mr H made his journeys to and from the hospital in the later days when Mrs H was in 
hospital abroad in a hire car rather than go by taxi. He says taxi costs would have been 
much higher than the car hire and fuel costs. Between 17 and 20 September 2022, the first 
few days Mrs H was in hospital, Mr H spent €593.43 on taxis to and from the hospital. Hes 
provided evidence of costs of about €300 for a hire car and fuel from 21 and 25 September 
2022, the later days when Mrs H was in hospital. So if Mr H had taken taxis from 21 and 
25 September instead of going by hire car the costs would have been nearly twice as much. 
As Mr H journeying by hire car reduced the costs Great Lakes said it would pay I think its 
reasonable for it to pay the hire car and fuel costs.
Overall Mr H spent more on taxis and hire car costs abroad then the £700 hospital benefit 
paid. So the fair and reasonable outcome is for Great Lakes to pay Mrs and Mr H the 
difference between the amount Mr H paid in taxi fares and hire car and fuel costs while 
abroad and the £700 its already paid in hospital benefit, plus interest as Ive detailed below. 
Great Lakes assistance company notes of 26 September 2022 say Mr Hs taxi costs to 
collect his car from the outbound flight airport in the UK would be covered. That note 
supports Mr H was told the cost would be covered. The policy covers additional travelling 
costs to repatriate Mrs and/or Mr H and I think the cost of getting Mr H back to the outbound 
airport could fall under those costs. That is a policy exclusion for costs incurred in the UK 
which could potentially apply. But as Great Lakes told Mr H the costs would be covered 
I think its reasonable for it to pay the cost, plus interest Ive detailed below. Mrs and Mr H 
have provided the receipt for the taxi cost.
Mr and Mrs H have also provided evidence of parking charges at the UK hospital between 
27 and 29 September 2022 and parking costs at the outbound airport which I understand is the additional cost for their extended stay abroad. Theyve also claimed the costs for a 
wheelchair after Mrs H had the surgery.
The policy section Emergency Medical & Repatriation Expenses, has an exclusion which 
says no expenses incurred within, or after you have returned to your home country will be 
covered. 
As the policy specifically excludes costs Mrs and Mr H incurred in the UK I dont think 
Great Lakes has to pay the UK parking charges or wheelchair costs.
Covid tests
I see no reason why Mrs and Mr Hs claim for the Covid-19 test expenses shouldnt be 
covered under the medical expenses claim as Great Lakes hasnt disputed that the tests 
were a condition of Mrs Hs admission to the hospital abroad. So it should pay those costs, 
and if Mrs and Mr H have already paid those costs Great Lakes should add interest as Ive 
detailed below. 
Excess
I note Great Lakes comment about the excess exceeding the cost of the Covid-19 tests. But 
I understand Great Lakes will have deducted any applicable excess from the medical costs 
it's already paid. If not and the excess applies under the policy terms then I think its 
reasonable for Great Lakes to deduct an excess in line with the policy terms. Great Lakes 
would also need to take into account the travel costs Ive directed it to pay when calculating 
what it should pay once any excess has been deducted.
Curtailment
Great Lakes has now agreed it will assess a claim for curtailment from 16 to 20 September 
2022 which is reasonable as Mrs Hs hospitalisation on 16 September effectively curtailed 
her and Mr Hs trip. Mrs and Mr H will need to provide Great Lakes with the necessary 
information to assess the claim. If the parties cant agree the outcome of the curtailment 
claim then ultimately Mrs and Mr H can make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
Compensation for injury
Im sorry to read that the effects of Mrs Hs injury have been significant for her. Mrs and Mr H 
say Great Lakes should pay her compensation for the impact of her injury. I understand that 
Mrs and Mr H havent yet made an actual claim for compensation with supporting medical 
evidence. 
Our investigator correctly explained what the policy terms say about cover under the 
Personal Accident section of the policy. A compensation payment may be due under that 
section for limb loss, loss of sight, or permanent total disablement. If Mrs and Mr H have 
medical evidence which they think supports a claim they should make a claim and send any 
supporting evidence to Great Lakes to assess. If the parties cant agree the outcome of a 
personal accident claim then ultimately Mrs and Mr H can make a separate complaint to us.
Our investigator has referred to the Legal Costs and Expenses section of the policy which 
subject to the policy terms provides legal advice and, where there are reasonable prospects 
of success, taking legal action on Mrs and Mr Hs behalf to recover losses or damages 
against a third party. Great Lakes isnt the insurer for that section of the policy. Our 
investigator has told Mrs and Mr H the name of the relevant insurer to contact if they want to 
get further information about what to do if they want to make a claim about Mrs Hs injury against a third party. As Great Lakes isnt the insurer for the cover under the Legal Costs 
and Expenses section of the policy it doesnt need to do anything on this issue.
Putting things right
Great Lakes must put things right as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Pay £200 compensation for Mrs and Mr Hs distress and inconvenience due to its 
poor service.
Pay the taxi, hire car and fuel costs incurred abroad due to Mrs Hs hospitalisation, 
less the £700 hospital benefit Great Lakes Insurance SE has already paid, less any 
applicable excess plus interest*.
Pay the taxi cost for Mr H to collect his vehicle from the outbound airport in the UK, 
less any applicable excess plus interest*.
Pay the Covid-19 tests costs less any applicable excess. If Mrs and Mr H has already 
paid the hospital for the tests then the settlement should be plus interest*.
Assess Mrs and Mr Hs curtailment claim in line with the policy terms.
Interest should be calculated at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
*If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr H how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs and Mr H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman