DRN-2241817
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996 to
protect a credit card. Mr M says Barclays Bank Plc trading as Barclaycard mis-sold him the 
policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I will explain why.
Barclaycard had to make Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before
adding the policy to his card. Mr M has explained that he was pressured into taking the 
policy and that the Barclaycard representative told him PPI was one of the three things 
Barclaycard looked at when considering an application.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr M applied for his card and PPI, but 
Barclaycard has provided a copy of the available paperwork. The application form had a 
separate section for PPI where the option to take PPI has been selected. The application 
form has also been signed by Mr M. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about being pressured into taking the policy. But for me to 
uphold this complaint based on this I would need to see persuasive evidence that this is 
likely to be what happened, which I havent seen. Overall, I think Barclaycard made it
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him.
Mr M has told us he was entitled to good sick pay when he took the policy, had savings and 
had another policy that covered his mortgage. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to, 
and for longer than Mr Ms sick pay. It would have also protected his savings so they could 
have been used towards any other expenses he may have had. And although Mr M had 
another policy that covered other borrowing it would not have covered this card.
Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. 
So, I think the policy were right for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
shouldve been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
And it seems like the policy would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would
have put him off taking out the cover.
Mr M has said he is happy to take and cover the cost of a polygraph test, although this would 
not change my decision as the results would be based on Mr Ms recollection of the sale and 
as I previously stated there is not enough other evidence to support Mr Ms recollection.
Which means Barclaycard doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman