DRN-3171757
The complaint
Mrs K complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.  
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with PSA.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected. An agent attended but because there 
was a tyre pressure waring light illuminated, the agent advised Mrs K that the collection 
would need to be cancelled and rearranged.
An inspection took place later, and the agent provided a report which included charges 
comprising an aborted inspection fee and a charge for a missing service.
Mrs K disputed the charges and complained to PSA. In response, PSA said the abort fee 
was charged because the collection had to be re-booked. It said the missing service charge 
had been correctly charged because the service due on 1 March 2021 hadnt been carried 
out.
Mrs K remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld part of the complaint. She thought the missing service charge was 
fair but said the abort fee wasnt fair because PSA hadnt made it clear that it would pass 
those costs on to her. 
PSA didnt agree. It said the information in the inspection handbook stated that fees could be 
charged for aborted appointments.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mrs K must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage or missing items are the customers responsibility.
A missing service is outside of acceptable wear and tear because it affects the re-sale value 
of the car. Ive looked at the service requirements for Mrs Ks car. This says that the car 
should be serviced every 12 months or every 16,000 miles, whichever is sooner. 
I can see that the first service was done on 1 March 2020 at 10,069 miles. This means that 
the next service was due on 1 March 2021. I cant see that this service was caried out. 
Because of this, I think the charge for the missing service has been correctly applied.
Theres no dispute that the first collection appointment was aborted because the warning 
light was illuminated. I dont think the decision to abort was wrong, because warning lights 
are one of the examples given in the inspection handbook.
The issue here is whether Mrs K should have to pay the abort fee.  PSA has said that the 
inspection handbook makes it clear that a fee may be charged for an aborted collection. I 
can see that the handbook says this. However, the handbook isnt part of the contractual 
agreement between Mrs K and PSA. Theres nothing in the finance agreement which says 
that Mrs K will be responsible for abort fees. I can see that Mrs K is contractually obliged to 
pay for damage which exceeds fair wear and tear but an abort fee for a cancelled collection 
isnt a fair wear and tear issue. 
If PSA wants to pass abort fees on to Mrs K, it needs to show that it has made this clear in 
the contractual documentation. Im not satisfied that PSA has done this. So, I dont think 
theres any contractual basis for the abort fee to be passed on to Mrs K. I think the fee 
should be refunded.
Putting things right
To put things right, PSA should refund the charge for the aborted collection. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part. The missing service fee has been 
correctly charged. PSA Finance UK Limited must refund the abort fee.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman