DRN-2902555
The complaint
  Mrs P complains about two loans provided to her by TFS Loans Limited trading as
TFS Loans, which she says were unaffordable
What happened
  TFS Loans provided Mrs P with two loans. The details of which are given in this table:
Number Taken Amount Total Repaid Instalments
1 July 2014 £5000 £11,591 60
2 June 2016 £7500 £16,755 60
Mrs P says that she feels TFS Loans failed to carry out effective affordability assessments 
and that if it had done what it was supposed to, it wouldnt have lent to her. She feels that 
TFS Loans have irresponsibly lent the money to her on each occasion.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
I can see that on each occasion, TFS Loans asked Mrs P about her income and 
expenditure. It has told our service that it verified Mrs Ps income by asking for payslips. It 
received a number of these and worked out an average monthly amount. It then asked Mrs 
P for her expenditure and says it also checked this through a credit search on both 
occasions in 2014 and 2016.
For loan 1, TFS Loans verified Mrs Ps income as £1845.03 and then after asking about 
expenditure, it recorded an amount of £1635.65. It had factored in the monthly repayment of 
loan 1 into this and so it worked out that Mrs P would have £209.38 in disposable income. 
For loan 2, TFS took the same approach and verified Mrs Ps income as £1862.80 and then 
after asking Mrs P, worked out her expenditure was £1664.74 with the second loan 
repayment included, leaving disposable income of £198.06.
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said about how it calculated Mrs Ps 
disposable income on each occasion it agreed to lend to her, in 2014 and in 2016. I dont 
think its checks were proportionate for either of these loans. I say this because on both 
occasions I can see that the amount borrowed, the total repayment and the length of the 
loan (five years) would lead me to think on balance that it should have carried out a 
complete review of Mrs Ps finances. I cant see that it did do this with regards to her 
expenditure for either of the two loans. I think it should have asked for further information 
about this.
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mrs P with his loans were reasonable and proportionate, bearing in mind 
Mrs P would need to meet her loan repayments over 60 months for loan 1 and for loan 2.
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision for loans 1 and 2?
Ive concluded the checks TFS Loans carried out werent proportionate and that they needed 
to do more. But I dont need to look into what it would have seen if it had carried out 
proportionate checks, because I dont think TFS Loans made a fair lending decision on each 
occasion it lent to Mrs P anyway, based on what it had in front of it. 
I say this because when I look through the credit search TFS Loans carried out for each 
loan, I can see that it shows Mrs P was having problems managing her finances. 
For loan 1, the search showed that Mrs P had defaulted on an account with a short-term 
loan provider only 4 months before she applied for a loan with TFS loans. The loan balance 
was for around £2400, more than her monthly wages and she wasnt making repayments 
towards it. In addition, she also defaulted on an account with a communications provider 
only 5 months before she approached TFS loans. She was also at the top of her credit limit 
for a credit card she took out and was over her credit limit on a mail order account. 
I think it would have been clear from these search results that Mrs P wasnt managing to 
repay her debt, and this resulted in defaulted accounts, showing that she was having 
problems managing her finances. I think, when I consider this, I am currently minded to 
conclude that it was unlikely that Mrs P could repay further credit sustainably without 
experiencing more adverse consequences. 
And, I dont think Mrs Ps situation improved when TFS Loans agreed to lend loan 2 either. 
She was now also up to her credit limit on a new credit card and was over her credit limit on 
another. She had at this stage now defaulted on another communications account, in 
October 2015 and a mail order account in February 2016 as well as having an arrangement 
to pay with a water company in October 2015. I think these would have all been indicators 
that Mrs P was still having problems managing her finances.  
So, I conclude that on both occasions, based on what TFS Loans had in front of it, it would 
have seen Mrs P wouldnt have been able to make repayments in a sustainable way.  
As Mrs P has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on the 
loans that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a 
result of what TFS Loans did wrong.
So, I think TFS Loans needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. TFS Loans didnt respond before the deadline I set. Mrs P 
responded and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Both parties have not made any further points. So, as neither party has anything further to 
add, I dont see any reason to depart from my findings within my provisional decision. With 
that being the case, TFS Loans now needs to put things right. 
 
Putting things right
 In line with this Services approach, Mrs P shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she 
borrowed for each loan. With this in mind, TFS Loans should:
add up the total amount of money Mrs P received as a result of being given loans 1-
2. The payments Mrs P made should be deducted from this amount. Any payments 
made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mrs P was given should be treated 
as overpayments and refunded to her;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mrs P to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mrs Ps credit file because of loans 1-2;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman