DRN-4195824
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund all the money she lost when she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In December 2022, Mrs O received a phone call from someone claiming to be from 
Santanders fraud department. The caller asked her if she had made two recent payments 
out of her account and, when she said she hadnt, they said her account wasnt secure and 
so she needed to move her money to a new account to keep it safe.
Mrs O says the caller then talked her through setting up a new account and gave her the 
bank details to send her money to. And Mrs O made a number of payments out of her 
Santander account to the bank details the caller gave her, totalling £23,600.
Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
After the scam was uncovered, Mrs O reported the payments to Santander and asked it to 
refund the money she had lost. Santander investigated and accepted that its fraud 
prevention systems had failed to highlight the payments. But it also said Mrs O hadnt done 
relevant checks before making the payments and hadnt followed the advice and warnings it 
had given her. So it offered to refund 50% of the money she had lost. Santander also later 
managed to recover an additional £5,126.28 from the bank the money was sent to. Mrs O 
wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Mrs O had a reasonable 
basis for believing the call was genuine, following the warnings Santander had given her. So 
they thought Santanders offer to refund 50% of the money she had lost was fair and they 
didnt think it should have to do anything further. Mrs O disagreed with our investigator as 
she felt Santander should have to refund all the money she lost, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Santander is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victim of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mrs O fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mrs O have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Santander has said Mrs O didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when she made the 
payment, because she didnt do sufficient checks into who she was speaking to or sending 
the money to and because it had warned her about this type of scam when it spoke to her 
the previous day. And while I appreciate that Mrs O has been the victim of a cruel scam, I do 
think there were a number of things about what was happening and what she was being told 
that should have caused her significant concern.
Mrs O had received a scam email the previous day saying she owed money to a government 
agency. And when she called to report it, Santander gave her warnings about what the 
scammers could try to do next and advice on what she should do to protect herself. 
Santander told her the scammers might try to contact her saying they were from Santander, 
or another bank, so to be extra careful as they may try to get money from her that way. It 
said no genuine company really does phone calls anymore, so if anyone did contact her she 
shouldnt get into a conversation with them and should just hang up. And it said to be extra 
vigilant with her account and, if there was anything she was unsure about, to give it a call.
So, as the phone call she received the following day was very similar to what Santander told 
her the scammers might try to do next, I think this should have caused Mrs O significant 
concern about whether what the caller was telling her was true.
Mrs O was also asked to send the money to what appears to be a personal account in the 
name of someone she didnt know. And the caller said they had ordered a new card for her, 
but when she spoke to Santander the previous day, it told her it couldnt order a new card for 
her as her address had recently been changed. So I think these things should also have 
caused her some concern.
I sympathise with the position Mrs O has found herself in. But I think there were a number of 
things here which should have caused her significant concern, and I dont think she did 
enough to satisfy those concerns before making the payment. So I think Santander has 
established that she made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that it was 
genuine.
Santander has therefore established that one of the exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code applies here, and it does not have to refund Mrs O all the money she lost.
Did Santander meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mrs O had a reasonable basis for belief when making the 
payments, she may still be entitled to a refund of some of the money she lost if Santander didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective 
warnings when it identifies a scam risk.
Santander has accepted that it didnt provide effective warnings to Mrs O when she made 
these payments, as it should have done. And so has accepted that it didnt meet its 
obligations under the CRM code.
Overall then, I think Santander has established that Mrs O made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. But I also think Santander failed to meet 
its obligations. And, where this is the case, the CRM code sets out that Mrs O is entitled to a 
refund of 50% of the money she lost.
As Santander has already offered to refund 50% of the money Mrs O lost, I think this is a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint and I dont think it would be fair to require 
Santander to refund anything further.
Did Santander do enough to try to recover the money Mrs O lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money their customers have 
lost, once they are made aware of a scam.
Santanders evidence shows it contacted the bank the payments were sent to within a 
reasonable amount of time, to ask for the money to be returned. So it has done all I would 
expect it to have done. And the bank the money was sent to was able to recover £5,126.28, 
which has now been returned to Mrs O.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman