DRN-2285963
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt deal with his claim under his 
travel insurance policy when he became unwell when he was abroad.
Ms D is also insured under this policy but hasnt made any representations so I will merely 
refer to Mr F throughout my decision.
References to Great Lakes include all its agents.
What happened
Mr F was abroad and fell ill and wasnt able to make his return flight home to the UK. He 
asked his cousin to call Great Lakes who then couldnt find his policy. When it did, it then 
tried to call Mr F but didnt get any reply. However Mr F said he should have called back his 
cousin.
Therefore Mr F wasnt able to avail of Great Lakes help when he was ill and abroad. He 
made his claim when he got home, which I understand has now been paid. But he has 
complained about the delay.
Great Lakes paid him £40 compensation for failing to call his cousin as requested.
Mr F remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. In the meantime Great Lakes 
offered Mr F a further £30 compensation. The investigator then ultimately thought Mr Fs 
complaint should be upheld, saying that Great Lakes should pay Mr F a total of £100 
compensation for its failings. Great Lakes agreed and Mr F didnt respond.
Therefore Mr Fs complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I will only be dealing with the issue that Great Lakes failed to come back to 
Mr F through his cousin once it found his policy and the issue of the delay in paying his claim 
once he got back to the UK. I wont be dealing with issues concerning the amount of the 
claim Great Lakes paid as Mr F first needs to raise his issues with that with Great Lakes.
Clearly the fact that Great Lakes didnt call back Mr Fs cousin after his enquiry on behalf on 
Mr F caused Mr F some trouble and upset. He didnt know if he had a valid policy and 
therefore didnt attend hospital as his doctor treating him abroad wanted. However if Mr F 
and his cousin remained so concerned I think they would have made contact with Great 
Lakes again, urging such clarification. Since that didnt happen I dont hold Great Lakes 
responsible for all the distress Mr F claims this caused him. 
Dealing with the delay by Great Lakes in dealing with Mr Fs claim, Mr F said the claim 
wasnt paid until July 2020, but Great Lakes has showed it was paid in May 2020. Its clear 
however that Mr F had given all the documents including his bank statements to Great Lakes 
in November 2019. Great Lakes also said there was some error in dealing with his claim 
which caused the delay. 
Like the investigator I do think the payment of Mr Fs claim was unreasonably delayed. 
So taking everything into account I consider the sum of £100 compensation suggested by 
the investigator and now agreed by Great Lakes to be adequate compensation for these 
errors made by Great Lakes.
Mr F also requested his premiums to be returned, but since his claim was paid albeit with 
some delay, it now wouldnt be right for Great Lakes to return the premium since Mr F has 
availed of the cover the payment of the premium required.
My final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Mr F a total of £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman