DRN-2063663
The complaint
Ms F and Mr H are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for storm 
damage to their roof and voided their policy. 
Ms F and Mr H are joint policy holders but, for ease, I will refer only to Ms F throughout my 
decision.
What happened
In 2017, Ms F got an online quote for buildings insurance with UKI and accepted it over the 
phone. Three years later, she claimed under the policy for storm damage to her roof. UKI 
approved a temporary repair using her own contractor and the following week a loss adjuster 
(LA) inspected the damage.
UKI declined the claim because the LA reported that Ms Fs home had a flat, felt roof. 
Because it doesnt provide cover for a felt roof, UKI voided the policy and refunded Ms Fs 
premiums.
Ms F complained. She thought the policy covered her felt roof because shed told UKI on the 
phone, at the start of her policy, that the roof was covered with felt. 
UKI said Ms F hadnt told it about the felt roof either online or over the phone. It repeated its 
decision to void the policy for misrepresentation and decline the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that if Ms F had provided the 
correct information from the start or at any renewal, UKI wouldnt have offered her a policy. 
Thats because UKI doesnt offer buildings cover for a flat, felt roof. Our investigator said that 
UKI didnt need to refund the premiums Ms F had paid from the start, so she thought that 
was a fair outcome.
Ms F didnt agree.  She said that she declared her roof was more than 50% flat when she 
completed the application. And she stated it was an asphalt covering because thats what 
she thought it was and there was no other option available on the form. Ms F also said that 
UKI agreed to pay for the emergency work it instructed her to do at the time, but it hasnt 
done so.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise that this will be a disappointment to Ms F, Ive decided not to uphold her 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I sympathise with Ms F for the unfortunate situation she has found herself in. I cant 
imagine how worrying the whole event mustve been, especially as emergency services 
were involved. The key issue of Ms Fs complaint is whether her policy with UKI was valid. 
Everything else follows from there.
Ms F got an online quote for buildings insurance and called UKI to accept the policy. She 
thinks the roof covering was discussed during that call so UKI should honour the claim under 
the policy. UKI no longer has the call recording from three years ago but it has a note of 
listening to it when Ms F first complained. The notes say that the roof wasnt mentioned at 
all. On balance, I think its likely that the notes UKI made when actually listening to the 
recording are an accurate reflection of the call. I can understand that placing reliance on 
UKIs notes rather than her recollection of the call might seem unfair to Ms F, but I havent 
looked at this point in isolation - other factors helped me reach my decision. 
UKI provided a copy of Ms Fs responses to the questions when she first got her insurance 
quote and a copy of the renewal documents. The statement relevant to this complaint was:
The home is roofed with slate, tile, concrete, metal or asphalt.
Ms F responded with yes in her original policy application and her answer is confirmed in 
the renewal document for her to check the accuracy for the period covering her claim. She 
also indicated that her roof was more than 50% flat. 
It was, in fact, a 100% flat, felt covered roof. Ms F says that she responded correctly to the 
flat roof statement, and I agree. A fully flat roof is more than 50% flat.  Im not aware that UKI 
has questioned this point though, so theres no dispute here. But UKI has said Ms Fs 
response to the statement about the roof covering wasnt correct. I agree with UKI here, and 
I think Ms F does too. Although she said in a more recent email that she thought the roof 
was asphalt, in all previous correspondence Ms F said it was felt or that she simply didnt 
know what it was made of. Her point is that shes not a roofing expert, asphalt sounds like 
felt and she cant be expected to know about different types of felt. Ms F said she had no 
other option than to respond with yes.
I understand the point Ms F is making, and its quite possible that most people wouldnt know 
the difference between a felt roof and asphalt roof  the loss adjuster confirmed it was a felt 
roof. But it was her responsibility to make sure she responded to the questions with 
reasonable care. She didnt really know what the roof was made of, which she has admitted, 
but other options were available to her - she couldve responded with no or, more 
appropriately, followed the advice UKI provided when the policy was taken out and at each 
renewal:
PROPOSAL DETAILS
This section confirms the answers given to us in response to these specific questions. If 
any answers are incorrect or if you are unsure about anything please call us. You must 
take care to provide us with accurate information.
This statement is in a box next to the question and response about the roof and its clear and 
specific. In other parts of the documentation, UKI also says that if any responses are 
incorrect, it may invalidate the policy, 
What you need to do
Please read this policy booklet and your schedule to make sure you know exactly 
what your insurance covers.
Check your proposal confirmation and your schedule, which sets out the information 
you have given us, carefully.If you think there is a mistake, or if you need to make changes, you should tell us 
immediately.
If you dont give us correct information, or if you dont tell us about any changes:
your policy may be invalidated
we may reject your claim
we may not pay your claim in full.
So, while I understand that Ms F might not have known what her roof was made of, Im 
satisfied that UKI did enough to draw her attention to the need for accurate information. For 
this reason, I think its fair that UKI concluded Ms F didnt take reasonable care to make sure 
she gave correct information  she didnt know what the roof was made of so she assumed it 
was one of the options listed. I think shell have done that without realising the importance of 
it. If UKI wouldve offered her the policy anyway even knowing she had a flat felt roof, then I 
mightve decided that there was no impact on UKI and it should cover the claim. However, 
Ive looked at the underwriting evidence and UKI simply didnt insure felt roofed homes. So 
the incorrect information made a material difference to UKI and Im satisfied that it was 
reasonable to void the policy and refund all of Ms Fs premiums.
In the initial claim call, UKI advised Ms F to get temporary repairs done to minimise damage. 
But the agent made it clear that UKI would need to assess the damage and it would only pay 
for the repair if the overall claim was covered. Even so, UKI has paid for the temporary 
repair. UKI didnt need to do that but I think it was helpful that it did.
The final point Ms F made was that UKI offered alternative accommodation. She declined its 
offer but says if she had accepted, then its likely more damage wouldve been caused to her 
home. I dont think it was wrong of UKI to make that offer, and Ms F didnt accept it anyway, 
so I cant see that there is anything to put right here. 
In summary, despite the very unfortunate circumstances, Im satisfied that it was fair for UKI 
to void the policy and decline Ms Fs claim. I think it has helped by refunding the premiums 
and paying for the temporary repair, but I cant see any reason to require UKI to do anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman