DRN-3329280
The complaint
Ms Ls complained about the way Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) dealt with a claim 
under her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
In early 2021, Ms Ls boiler stopped working.  So she contacted Allianz to arrange for repairs 
under the cover provided by her home emergency insurance.
Ms L said that, although the contact number for Allianz was supposed to be a 24 hour 
number, no-one was answering calls until 8am.  When she was able to speak to someone, 
they told her that shed be contacted within 60-90 minutes.  But she had to chase several 
hours later.  
An engineer attended in the afternoon.  He inspected parts of the system  although Ms L 
and her husband felt his inspection was inadequate.  During discussions with the engineer, 
Ms Ls husband managed to re-start the boiler.  The engineer said it should be left running, 
that he would get quotes for spare parts and Ms L should expect to hear from Allianz a day 
or two later.
When Ms L didnt hear anything for a week, she contacted Allianz to find out what was 
happening.  She says Allianz told her the boiler was beyond economic repair and that her 
policy didnt cover the investigation of intermittent faults.
Ms L wasnt satisfied with Allianzs response.  She made a complaint to them, challenging 
their view that the boiler was beyond economic repair when the engineer had told her hed 
need to get a quote for parts. And she asked for a second engineer to attend because she 
and her husband didnt believe the one whod come to their home had properly inspected the 
boiler.
Allianz acknowledged Ms Ls complaint.  And they sent her a second email confirming they 
were still investigating it.  But they never sent her a final response.  So Ms L brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator contacted Allianz to get an accessible copy of their business file.  Despite 
her chasing, Allianz have never provided that.  So the investigator came to her view on the 
basis of the information provided by Ms L.
The investigator thought the breakdown was covered by the policy and so Allianz should 
have repaired the boiler.  So she said Allianz should reimburse Ms L what shed paid 
another engineer to repair it.  And she was satisfied the way Allianz had handled the issue 
had caused Ms L and her husband additional distress and inconvenience, for which she 
thought they should be compensated £200.
Ms L accepted the investigators view.  Allianz didnt respond.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint.  Ill explain why.
Because Allianz hasnt responded to any contact from the investigator, like her, Ive had to 
base my decision on the information provided by Ms L.
Ive looked at the policy extracts Ms Ls sent us.  The terms and conditions state that Allianz 
will pay up to £1,000 for each emergency.  And the terms state that:
Complete failure or breakdown of either the heating and/or hot-water supply provided by the 
primary heating system.
is covered.  Ms L told us the boiler wasnt working, leaving her home without heating.  I think 
that events covered.
The policy contained a number of exclusions, which Ive read.  The only one which may have 
been relevant was a clause which excludes the cost of repairing a boiler which is beyond 
economical repair.  Ms L had mentioned in correspondence that Allianz had suggested this 
was the case in an email.  So I asked our investigator to obtain a copy for me to review.
Ive now seen that email.  It reads:
I have been advised by [contractor] that they are not deeming the boiler beyond economical 
repair. As discussed unfortunately intermittent issues are not covered by the Home 
Emergency policy.
So Im satisfied that exclusion of repairing a boiler beyond economical repair doesnt apply.  
And the policy documents Ive seen dont refer to intermittent issues.  So I dont think its fair 
to exclude them from cover.  That means Allianz should have paid for repairs to Ms Ls 
boiler, up to the policy limit of £1,000.  
Putting things right
Because Allianz wouldnt arrange for repairs to the boiler, Ms L had to pay for them herself.  
Shes supplied a copy of the invoice, showing that cost her £292.15.  Thats within the policy 
limit of £1,000.  So I think its fair Allianz reimburse her for that amount in full.
And I agree with our investigator that Allianzs failure to deal with the claim caused Ms L 
unnecessary further distress and inconvenience, for which she should be compensated.  
Like our investigator, I think £200 is a reasonable sum for Allianz to pay for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Ls complaint about Allianz Global 
Assistance and directing them to pay her:
£292.15 to reimburse Ms L the cost of getting her boiler repaired; and 
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience their failure to deal with the 
repairs caused her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman