DRN-4307980
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a personal loan Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as Live 
Lend) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided to him.
Background
Live Lend provided Mr D with a loan for £7,000.00 in August 2020. This loan had an APR of 
20% and the total amount to be repaid of £10,683.92, which included interest fees and 
charges of £3,683.92, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £180.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and Live Lend had told us. He thought that Live 
Lend hadnt treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld.  
 Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Live Lend needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is Live Lend needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether     
Mr D could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Live Lend says it agreed to Mr Ds application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out. The credit checks showed a single payday loan 
which had been repaid and relatively low balances on revolving credit accounts which were 
also well maintained. 
In Live Lends view all of the information it gathered showed that Mr D could comfortably 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. 
On the other hand, Mr D has said he couldnt afford this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and Live Lend have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Live Lend has provided the details of its credit searches. 
Live Lend having carried out credit checks shows that it didnt simply rely on what Mr D said 
and that it took some steps to check at least some of the information he provided in his 
application. 
Live Lend searches appear to show that Mr Ds existing commitments were relatively well 
maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ds debt total at the time of the 
applications was also reasonable in comparison to his income. And there isnt anything else 
obvious in the information gathered which leads me to think that further checks would have 
been reasonable and proportionate.
I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Live Lend obtained. I also acknowledge that if 
Live Lend had gone into the depth of checks Mr D appears to be saying it should have  
such as obtaining bank statements  it could have reached a different answer. 
But the key here thing is that I dont think the circumstances of the lending here warranted 
obtaining bank statements. Live Lend was lending to Mr D for the first time and the amount 
being advanced wasnt huge. Given the circumstances, Id expect it to have a reasonable 
idea of Mr Ds income and committed non-discretionary spending, which it did here, rather 
than a complete review of Mr Ds finances.
Equally, its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances here, and the lack of obvious 
inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would have extended 
into the level of checks Mr D is suggesting.  
As this is the case, I dont think that Live Lend did anything wrong when deciding to lend to 
Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Live Lend treated Mr D 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. I appreciate this is likely to be very disappointing for Mr D. But I hope hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Jeshen NarayananOmbudsman