DRN-1429320
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited removed cover for their boiler from their 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a home emergency policy, which provided cover for their central 
heating system; plumbing and electrics; pests and security. Aviva sent out an engineer to 
inspect their boiler and carry out a boiler health check.
The engineer identified that Mr and Mrs G had solar panels which heated their hot water 
cylinder. The eligibility criteria stated that properties mustnt be heated by solar panels. And 
power generation systems, including solar panels, are specifically excluded by the policy 
terms. So Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs G to explain their boiler hadnt passed the health 
check. It told them their boiler would no longer be covered under the policy. The letter also 
said their premiums would be adjusted to reflect the removal of boiler cover.
Mr and Mrs G werent happy with Avivas decision. They felt the boiler had been unfairly 
excluded from policy cover. They said the solar panels were only linked to their hot water 
cylinder and had no direct link to their boiler. They didnt think Aviva had given reasonable 
explanations for its decision. They said theyd been put to time and effort in chasing Aviva to 
get a full explanation as to why it was no longer prepared to cover their boiler. 
Some months later, Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs G to say that while it still couldnt cover boiler 
related claims, it could cover things like their radiators, cylinders and water tank. Mr and Mrs 
G remained unhappy with how Aviva had responded to their concerns and they asked us to 
look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. She thought Aviva 
was entitled to rely on its terms and conditions in deciding not to cover Mr and Mrs Gs 
boiler. She felt Aviva had the specialist knowledge to determine whether or not the solar 
panels were linked to their boiler system. She acknowledged Mr and Mrs G had had ongoing 
correspondence with Aviva over several months. But she thought theyd been given an 
explanation about the reasons why their boiler would no longer be covered shortly after 
theyd raised their concerns.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They felt the investigator had made factual errors in her 
assessment and that the solar panels solely provided water heating. They maintained there 
was no direct link between their boiler and the solar panels. They didnt feel there was any 
engineering reason why the boiler should be excluded from cover. The solar panels had no 
effect on the functionality and running of the boiler.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
Aviva to decide it didnt want to cover Mr and Mrs Gs boiler. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that my role isnt to tell Aviva what it should and shouldnt cover. 
And I cant require it to change its policy terms and conditions. My role is to decide whether 
Aviva applied its policy wording fairly.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Gs policy. Ive first 
considered the property eligibility criteria.  This states:
'The boiler(s) at your property must have a total power input of less than 70Kw and the gas 
supply pipe work must be 35mm or less in diameter. It must be fuelled by natural gas (and 
not LPG, electric, oil, or solid fuel). Your property must not be heated by one of the following:
f) solar/thermal power
Mr and Mrs G acknowledge that their solar panels provide water heating to their property. 
But in any event, it seems Aviva didnt decide that Mr and Mrs Gs property as a whole was 
no longer eligible for cover. Thats because it was still prepared to provide the other sections 
of policy cover under Mr and Mrs Gs agreement; it simply withdrew boiler cover. I think 
thats likely to be because the hot water cylinder is part of the boiler system as a whole. 
Ive also carefully considered the general exclusions section of the policy. This says: 
The following are also excluded from cover and therefore the Underwriter will not be liable 
for any of the following:
q) power generation systems and their associated pipework, pumps, panels and controls 
including: solar panels and/or wind turbines, combined head and power systems (systems 
that generate electricity and heat at the same time)
I think this term clearly excludes solar panels which generate heat. As Ive explained above, 
Mr and Mrs G have told us that their solar panels provide heat in the form of hot water. This 
would suggest their heating system falls squarely within the scope of the exclusion clause. 
And so it seems it simply wouldnt be covered by Avivas policy terms.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G feel the solar panels and the boiler are two separate systems. But 
Avivas engineer had the opportunity to inspect the boiler during the health check and 
decided the two systems were linked. I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the 
engineers findings, given their specialist knowledge about heating systems.
The policy terms also state that if a boiler fails a health check, Aviva wont be able to cover 
the boiler and will adjust the premiums accordingly. So it seems to me its acted in line with 
its terms and conditions in the way its handled Mr and Mrs Gs policy.
Ive thought about the letter Mr and Mrs G got from Aviva in June 2019. I can understand 
why this mightve seemed confusing, given it said the radiators, water tank and cylinders 
would now be covered. Thats because the water cylinder in particular seems linked to the 
water heating system. However, I dont think this made Mr and Mrs Gs position worse  it 
seems to have extended the cover they had available under their policy. And much of their 
central heating system seems to have been brought back within cover, without an impact on 
the policy price or excess at that point. Its clear Mr and Mrs G were in ongoing contact with Aviva over several months. I can 
understand they were frustrated by the responses they received from Aviva and didnt feel 
their questions had been sufficiently answered. But like the investigator, I also think Aviva 
did tell Mr and Mrs G why it wasnt prepared to cover their boiler back in November 2018. So 
Im not telling it to pay them any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman