DRN-3209862
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has settled a claim they 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account. The policy 
provides cover for trips of up to 31 days duration.
On 5 March 2020, Mr and Mrs H travelled to a country Ill call A. They were planning a five-
week touring holiday and they were due to return to the UK on 9 April 2020.
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. And on 12 March 2020, two attractions Mr and Mrs H held passes for announced 
that theyd be closing with effect from 15 March. Mr and Mrs H decided to self-isolate in their 
hotel, as they were concerned about the risks of Covid-19. 
Subsequently, on 15 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office 
(FCDO) advised against all but essential travel to A. So Mr and Mrs H arranged to return to 
the UK early. As they werent able to arrange to bring forward their flight until 21 March 
2020, they extended their stay in the hotel. They were able to recover many of their 
curtailment costs but made a claim for other costs they hadnt been able to get back and 
other costs such as phone calls and groceries.
Aviva accepted Mr and Mrs Hs claim and partly settled it. It covered the cost of Mr and Mrs 
Hs extended stay in the hotel; their return flight amendment cost and a pro-rata amount 
representing a refund for the unused days of Mr and Mrs Hs car hire which fell within the 21-
day trip limit. It noted that one of the attractions Mr and Mrs H had had passes for had 
offered a pro-rata refund of their ticket costs. It said that if Mr and Mrs H could provide 
evidence that the other attraction hadnt refunded its portion of the unused ticket cost, it 
would consider this further.
However, Aviva declined to cover some of Mr and Mrs Hs other costs. It didnt agree to 
cover their stay in the hotel between 12 and 15 March 2020, as it said these costs had been 
used. It also stated that as Mr and Mrs H had used both of their outbound and inbound 
flights, these also werent covered.  And it said that the costs of phone calls and groceries 
werent covered by the curtailment section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Avivas settlement and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly. She didnt think the 
policy terms covered their return flight or their sundry costs. And she didnt think Aviva 
needed to pay for the period between 12 and 15 March 2020 when Mr and Mrs H had 
decided to isolate in their hotel. She was satisfied the car hire settlement had been 
calculated reasonably. She felt that if Mr and Mrs H could show that they hadnt been offered 
a pro-rata refund for both elements of their attraction pass, Aviva should consider this part of 
the claim further.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed and Ive summarised their responses to our investigator. Theyd 
narrowed their claim costs to three days in the hotel; seven days of essential car hire costs; 
phone calls; groceries and their return flight. They felt that by deeming curtailment to have 
taken place on 15 March 2020 rather than the date the World Health Organisation to be a 
pandemic, Aviva had ignored the growing severity of the situation. Theyd decided to self-
isolate from 12 March 2020 and this had potentially saved Aviva from paying significant 
medical costs.
They considered that their call and sundry grocery costs were necessary travel and 
accommodation expenses. They said if theyd been able to return to the UK sooner, they 
wouldnt have incurred these additional costs. They felt that their car hire costs between 12 
and 21 March 2020 should be refunded as necessary travel and accommodation costs too. 
They said their claim was based on a quantifiable loss of duration, as their return flight had 
had to be significantly brought forward. It hadnt been used in accordance with the original 
booking. Theyd been left with considerable expenses for a holiday which only lasted one 
week. They didnt think the investigator had considered the exceptional circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think Aviva has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and 
sent us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on every point theyve made 
and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide 
whether Aviva treated them fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy, as these form the 
basis of the contract between Aviva and Mr and Mrs H. I appreciate that when Mr and Mrs H 
booked their holiday, the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have 
been foreseen by either policyholders or insurers. But no insurance policy covers every 
eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return 
for the premium paid for a policy. Therefore, Avivas obligations under its contract with Mr 
and Mrs H are limited by the terms, conditions and exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt take out an all-risks policy. This means that Aviva has set out the 
specific, listed insured events its chosen to cover if a policyholder has to cut short their 
holiday. Mr and Mrs H were able to fly abroad as theyd planned and were able to spend a 
few days in a city theyd intended to travel to before they were advised to return home around three weeks earlier than theyd planned. This means that their trip wasnt cancelled 
before the date of departure and as such, I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude their claim 
had been curtailed. So I think it was fair for Aviva to consider the claim under the scope of 
the Cancelling or coming home early section of the policy. 
This section says that if a policyholder has to cut short their trip due to one of the listed, 
specified events, Aviva will pay for the following costs:
non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for their own 
unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also includes the cost of pre-paid 
excursions;
and/or
 additional travel costs (if you cannot use your return ticket), and /or accommodation costs 
(of a similar standard you had booked for your trip) necessary to allow you to come home 
early.
One of the listed, insured events Aviva covers for curtailment is the FCDO advising against 
all but essential travel to a policyholders destination. As Mr and Mrs H were unable to 
continue their trip following the change in FCDO advice on 15 March 2020, which affected all 
of their booked trip plans, Aviva accepted their claim under this heading. However, this 
doesnt mean that Aviva had to pay Mr and Mrs Hs full trip costs. I think the policy terms 
make it clear that Aviva will only cover a policyholders unused personal travel and/or 
accommodation costs or their additional travel and accommodation costs.
Did Aviva settle the claim fairly?
Mr and Mrs H initially claimed for substantially higher costs when they made their claim. 
However, theyve since proposed settlement of the following five elements: the hotel 
between 12 and 15 March 2020; their car hire between 12 and 21 March 2020; their phone 
calls; grocery and petrol costs, and their return flight. Ive considered each of these in turn.
The hotel costs 
Mr and Mrs H say that following the categorisation of Covid-19 as a pandemic; they decided 
to self-isolate in their hotel after 12 March 2020. They therefore consider their trip was 
curtailed on this date, despite the FCDO advice not changing until three days later. Ive 
thought carefully about this. But theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs H did stay in their booked 
hotel. Theyve told us they were able to visit the supermarket, so theres no evidence that 
they were confined to their hotel room. And theyve also told us that the pool remained open, 
although theyve said they chose not to use it.
In these circumstances then, while I appreciate Mr and Mrs H may not have been able to 
make use of the hotel in the way theyd hoped to, I dont think I could fairly find that their trip 
was curtailed on 12 March 2020. I say that because theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs H 
were advised to self-isolate (even though I can understand why they chose to do so) and it 
seems that they couldve made use of the hotel facilities if theyd wished to during this 
period. As such then, Im not directing Aviva to pay the hotel costs between 12 and 15 March 
2020.
The car hire
Aviva has previously settled a pro-rata amount of the car hire costs for the period after Mr 
and Mrs H curtailed their trip, in line with the 31 day trip limit and less the refund theyd received from the car hire company. Mr and Mrs H consider that Aviva should cover the car 
hire costs between 12 and 21 March 2020 (the date they returned the car to the car hire 
company). Thats because they feel that this was an essential travel cost, which allowed 
them to travel to buy groceries. They also consider that had they been able to return to the 
UK sooner, theyd have been able to return the car sooner and been entitled to a higher 
refund of their costs.
In my view though, Aviva acted reasonably when it settled Mr and Mrs Hs car hire claim. I 
dont think the car hire cost between 12 and 21 March 2020 can reasonably be deemed to 
be either an unused or additional travel or accommodation cost. Thats because Mr and Mrs 
H have told us that they used the car, during the hire period, to travel to the supermarket. 
And they were able to make use of the car until the point they dropped it back at the airport 
and flew back to the UK. Neither do I consider this to be an additional travel cost, as Mr and 
Mrs H had already paid for the car hire and it appears that this had always factored into their 
onward journey plans. So Im not telling Aviva to pay the car hire costs between 12 and 21 
March 2020.
Phone calls
I appreciate that given the change in FCDO advice and the rapidly evolving situation, Mr and 
Mrs H needed to make several phone calls over a period of days. And that they therefore 
incurred costs. However, I dont think I can reasonably find that call costs fall within the 
scope of unused or additional travel or accommodation costs  even though I accept the 
calls were in part to rearrange Mr and Mrs Hs return flight to the UK. 
And I note that the General Exclusions section of the policy specifically excludes:
Any loss that is not specifically described in the stated terms and conditions.
Phone calls are not listed as a specific loss which is covered by the curtailment section of 
the policy. So I think it was fair for Aviva to conclude that these costs werent covered.
Groceries and petrol costs
Mr and Mrs H feel that their grocery bills should be paid, as they consider their food costs 
were additional accommodation expenses. Thats because if theyd been staying in the hotel 
on a full-board basis, their costs wouldve been covered. Im afraid I dont agree. Mr and Mrs 
H had booked a self-catering holiday. So regardless of whether Mr and Mrs Hs trip had 
continued as planned; whether they extended their stay in their hotel, or whether theyd been 
back in the UK, theyd still have needed to buy food during this period. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Aviva to consider that grocery costs werent covered by the curtailment 
section of the policy.
Similarly, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs H incurred petrol costs whilst travelling to the 
supermarket and in travelling to the airport to return to the UK, I note theyd planned to return 
the car on 9 April 2020, following a five-week tour. So I dont think I could reasonably find 
that Mr and Mrs H incurred additional travel expenses between 12 and 21 March 2020, 
through using a car theyd always planned to use during their holiday. And I dont think petrol 
costs were listed, covered costs in any event.
The return flight
Theres no dispute that Aviva settled the amendment fee Mr and Mrs H paid to bring their 
flight home forward. Thats because it considered this to be an additional travel expense 
which was covered by the curtailment section of the policy. I think this was an appropriate response from Aviva.
Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that their pre-booked flight wasnt used as intended, because the 
trip ended four weeks earlier than theyd planned. So they consider their full return flight cost 
should be met. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Hs position as I acknowledge they lost out on 
the majority of their trip due to unforeseen circumstances. But in my view, their original pre-
booked return flight wasnt an unused cost. Thats because Mr and Mrs H were able to fly 
back to the UK, using the value of their original booking and therefore, they did receive the 
service theyd paid for, albeit earlier than theyd planned to. Theyd always have had to pay 
to return to the UK whether their trip had been disrupted or whether their holiday had gone 
as planned. Given Aviva has settled the cost of the amendment fee, which was Mr and Mrs 
Hs actual financial loss for the return flight, I think its settled this part of the claim fairly. This 
means Im not directing Aviva to pay the full cost of Mr and Mrs Hs return flight.
Attraction passes
Mr and Mrs H didnt include the attraction passes in their narrowed claim scope. From the 
evidence Ive seen though, they were offered a partial refund from one of the providers, 
albeit not from the other provider. Aviva has said that if Mr and Mrs H can provide evidence 
that the other provider has not made any offer of a pro-rata refund, it will consider this loss 
further.
We asked Mr and Mrs H if theyd had any further correspondence with the providers. They 
told us that theyd had no further correspondence since June 2020. I understand Mr and Mrs 
H have brought a separate complaint against their credit card provider relating to that 
transaction which will be considered in due course. If Mr and Mrs H are subsequently unable 
to recover a pro-rata refund either through their card provider or through the attraction 
provider, its open to them to send evidence to demonstrate this financial loss to Aviva for it 
to further consider, as its already agreed to do.
Summary
Overall, as Ive set out above, Im satisfied that Aviva has settled Mr and Mrs Hs claim fairly 
and reasonably. So Im not directing it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman