DRN-3074118
The complaint
Mr H complains about the increase in the fund expenses charge on an investment he holds
with Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
On 2 March 2021 Mr H wrote to Aviva to ask why the fund expenses charge on an
investment bond he holds with it had trebled from 0.01% to 0.03% and what this charge
comprised.
In the same month Aviva wrote to Mr H to confirm that the fund expenses charge increased
on 1 January 2020, that it comprises the costs associated with the running of the investment
funds  including things such as audit fees and statutory accounts preparation fees  and
that the charge is distinct from the cost of fund management (management charge).
Unhappy with Avivas response to his complaint, Mr H referred it to our service for
investigation.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld in part. In summary, she said that although its clear that Mr H doesnt
dispute Avivas right to make a fund expenses charge, its not clear that Mr H was ever
advised this charge could vary, or that he was advised in good time that it was going to be
varied (or had been varied), or what the charge comprised.
She then went on to say that Mr H should now be aware of what the expenses charge
comprises, and that it can vary. But that Mr H should be fairly compensated for the period
the increase from 0.01% to 0.03% in the fund expenses charge had been effect but he was
unaware of the same.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for it to be considered by an
ombudsman. However, Mr H gave no reasons why he disagreed with the investigators view.
Aviva also didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary it said it didnt believe it had
done anything wrong.
Because both parties didnt agree with the investigators view, and she wasnt persuaded to
change her mind, Mr Hs complaint was passed to me for review and decision.  
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its my understanding that, amongst other things, Mr H assumed that if Aviva was looking to
increase any of its investment fees, or charges, that he would be advised of the same in
good time, and at least before any such increase came into effect.
And in the particular circumstances of this case I think the holding of such a view by Mr H
wasnt unreasonable. And because of this, I can confirm I agree with the investigator that
this complaint should be upheld.
Aviva has confirmed that the fund expenses charge increase of 0.02% took effect from
1 January 2020 and was first advised to Mr H under cover of his statement  covering the
period 17 February 2020 to 15 February 2021  which he received no later than
2 March 2021.
In broad terms the monetary effect of this increase, for the period Mr H was unaware of it, is
approximately £300. And in essence, the investigator awarded Mr H this sum together with
interest.
Although I can understand why the investigator made the award she did, Im not persuaded
its appropriate in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H doesnt appear to dispute Avivas right to make an expenses charge. But rather he
appears to be complaining that he wasnt aware this charge could be varied, he wasnt
aware until 2 March 2021 this charge had been varied (increased), and that he was unaware
(until recently) what this charge comprised.
First, I would like to say that I agree with the investigator that Mr H is now aware, or should
reasonably be aware, that the expenses charge can be varied by Aviva and what (in broad
terms at least) what it comprises. And that no compensation is warranted in respect of this
aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
Now in complaints of this type it isnt, in my view, appropriate to make an award along the
lines recommended by the investigator. In my view its appropriate, instead, to consider what
the investor would have done differently had they been advised, in good time, of the charge
increase  for example surrender/encash their investment and invest the proceeds of their
investment elsewhere with another provider.
Now I know I cant say for certain what Mr H might have done differently. But based on what
Mr H has said and submitted, and given that he doesnt appear to have surrendered or
encashed his investment to date, Im currently not persuaded that he would have done
anything differently and therefore he hasnt suffered a direct financial loss.
However, I think that Mr H has suffered some distress and inconvenience for which he
should be fairly compensated for. And taking everything into account, I think that £50
represents an appropriate sum for Aviva to have pay in this respect.
Aviva responded to say it had nothing further to add and it would wait my final determination.
Mr H responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary he said that 
it blatantly fails to properly and adequately consider and evaluate all of the relevant 
material... Mr H also said that he had expressed [his] explicit desire to Aviva re 
surrendering policies. A desire that was frustrated by the unprofessional [actions] of Aviva. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure Mr H that everything that has been submitted, by both him and Aviva, has been 
given adequate and appropriate consideration by me. 
I note what Mr H says about a desire on his part to surrender the investment. But Im not 
persuaded that this, in itself, is enough for me to reasonably conclude that he would have 
done something different had he been advised, in good time, of the charge increase. 
I also think its worth pointing out that despite what Mr H says about a desire on his part to 
surrender the investment, which as I understand it is not particularly difficult, the investment 
(according to Aviva at least) remains open.
Given what I say above, and given that Aviva has provided nothing further for my 
consideration, I can confirm that I see no good reason to depart from my provisional findings 
and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that  Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must pay Mr H £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman