DRN-4188519
The complaint
Mr W complains that Creation Financial Services Limited closed his account, didnt credit his 
points, a free night stay voucher or refund the annual fee. Hed like his benefits credited and 
compensation for the impact.
What happened
Mr W had a rewards club premium credit card account with Creation which included an 
annual fee of £99. The card included the ability to earn reward points, which could be 
redeemed for hotel stays or experiences, and a hotel voucher for a free night stay. 
On 1 October 2021 Mr W received a letter from Creation which informed him his credit card 
account would be closed on 3 December 2021.
Mr W complained to Creation. But Creation didnt uphold his complaint. They thought theyd 
acted fairly in closing his account, not refunding the annual fee, crediting the points or the 
free night stay voucher. 
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Creations response so complained to our service.
After Mr Ws complaint was brought to our service Creation made an offer. They offered 
Mr W a pro-rata refund of his annual fee, the points not credited and the free night stay 
voucher. 
Mr W didnt accept the offer  he explained that due to the delay in offering a resolution, hed 
like between £150 and £250 compensation.  
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint. They thought due to the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W they should pay him an additional £50 compensation.
Mr W accepted, but Creation didnt. And they didnt agree to pay Mr W £50 compensation. 
As Creation didnt accept, the case has been moved to me to decide. 
On reviewing the case I reached a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. I thought 
that Creation should refund the pro-rata annual fee, the points and the free night stay 
voucher. However, I didnt think £50 compensation was fair. I explained that it isnt the role of 
our service to punish a business, nor do we compensate for the inconvenience experienced 
in raising a complaint. I explained, our service doesnt make awards for mistakes which 
haven't caused more than the normal nuisances of everyday life.
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he said:
Lots of premium reward credit card holders were impacted, and he thinks it was a 
strategic decision taken by Creation at the time
It was logical that the fair thing to do was to refund for unused months, owed points 
and the free night stay vouchers   but Creation refused to do this. 
He spent hours calling and emailing Creation to try to get a fair outcome but was 
either ignored or they rejected his requests. Therefore he had no alternative but to go 
to the ombudsman service. 
As Mr W didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
Creation can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Creation have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ws account. The terms explain that Creation can close an account for any reason by 
giving 60 days notice. I understand this is disappointing for Mr W however, by providing the 
full notice period here I cant say Creation have acted unfairly. 
Annual fee, withholding of points and hotel voucher
Creation have offered to reimburse Mr Ws points, award him the free night stay voucher and 
give a pro-rata refund. Im satisfied that Creation shouldnt have deprived Mr W of access to 
the points, voucher and pro-rata refund when initially closing his account. But, Im pleased to 
see that theyve now agreed to rectify this. 
Compensation
 
Ive considered Mr Ws response to my provisional decision. And I appreciate this will 
disappoint him, however Im afraid I havent changed the outcome I reached in my initial 
thoughts. My Ws argued that this was a strategic decision taken by Creation at the time and 
it was logical for them to return any unused annual fee, credit the points and the free night 
stay voucher. As Ive explained above Im satisfied Creation acted fairly in closing Mr Ws 
account, but I agree they should have returned his unused annual fee, credited the points 
and granted him the free night stay voucher  Im pleased to see that Creation have now 
agreed to do this, and having done so theyve put Mr W back in the position he would have 
been in at the time. Therefore I cant say hes lost out here. 
Mr Ws explained he spent hours contacting Creation to attempt to get a resolution to his 
complaint. I understand this was likely time consuming and frustrating for Mr W. But as Ive 
already outlined Im satisfied the level of inconvenience Mr W experienced isnt sufficient to 
meet the criteria for a financial award. 
Putting things right
If they havent already done so Ill be directing Creation to credit Mr Ws points, refund the 
unused part of the annual fee and award the free night stay voucher.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Creation Financial Services Limited to:
Refund Mr W the uncredited points 
Award Mr W the free night stay voucherPay Mr W £37.97 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman