DRN-3030937
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2009. Mrs and Mr C say Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Woolwich (Barclays), mis-sold 
them PPI.
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes                
Mrs and Mr Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, 
limitations and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs and Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding                
Mrs and Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mrs and Mr C say the PPI policy was included as part of the mortgage package, but I 
think Barclays made it clear to Mrs and Mr C that they didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
Although Barclays hasnt been able to give us all of the documents from the time of the 
sale (which I dont find surprising given the length of time since then), what it has been 
able to give us suggests Mrs and Mr C had a choice about taking the policy. Ive seen a 
copy of the mortgage offer letter which was sent to Mrs and Mr C and in that letter there 
is a section about insurance. This is followed by the heading, Insurance you must take 
out through Woolwich. It continues with the statement You are not required to take 
out any insurance through Woolwich. Further on there is the heading, Optional 
insurance and Barclays Mortgage Care is stated as being chosen along with the 
monthly cost. 
I have also seen the separate letter about the PPI itself and which includes a demands 
and needs statement which details the answers to some questions that would have 
been asked of Mrs and Mr C about their circumstances. So, this indicates discussion 
about the policy. 
The mortgage was taken in Mrs and Mr Cs joint names, but the policy was for the sole 
benefit of Mr C rather than split jointly between Mrs and Mr C. And Mr C chose 
unemployment cover only rather than the accident and sickness cover as well which was 
also offered. Mrs and Mr C would have needed to have completed a bank direct debit 
mandate in order for the monthly premiums to have been taken from their bank account. 
So, taking all of the above into account, I think Mrs and Mr C were made aware the 
policy was optional but chose to take it at the point of application of their mortgage  and 
made a decision about how the policy cover would be of most benefit to them.  
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr C, so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example, Mr C was eligible 
for the cover and although they had existing means  the employee benefits they told us 
about  they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr Cs employment or occupation which would have made it 
difficult for them to claim. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs and Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out  so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr C as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think         
Mrs and Mr C would have declined the cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mrs and Mr C would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs and Mr Cs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs and Mr Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Cs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means Barclays doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman