DRN-3788276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D, and Mr D, complain about how long Barclays Bank UK PLC took to arrange 
their mortgage. They wanted to get a mortgage agreed and the purchase completed before 
the stamp duty holiday ended, but delays Barclays caused meant they didnt manage to.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D, and Mr D were buying a house together. Ill refer to them together as the 
purchasers. They applied for a mortgage with Barclays on 11 May 2021. They said that in 
order to speed up the purchase, theyd asked if they could use a search indemnity policy, 
rather than wait for searches to be completed. Barclays said it would accept this, subject to 
its own review of the policy. So the purchasers said they were confident they could buy their 
property before the end of a key phase of the stamp duty holiday, on 30 June 2021. That 
would mean they wouldnt need to pay stamp duty on this purchase.
But the purchasers said Barclays caused very significant delays in their mortgage 
application. It asked repeatedly for documents it had already been sent, and raised concerns 
at the very last minute which could have been dealt with weeks before. The purchasers are 
supported in this complaint by a representative, who has set out for us a detailed timeline of 
the applications progress, which is well evidenced.
The purchasers said their first offer wasnt issued by Barclays until 29 July. So they missed 
the stamp duty holiday, and had to pay £11,500 in tax on the property, which could have 
been avoided if Barclays hadnt made so many mistakes. They wanted Barclays to pay this 
money back to them. And the purchasers said theyd complained directly to Barclays, but it 
hadnt replied. So they wanted us to look into things for them. 
When our service contacted Barclays about this case, it accepted that no response had 
been issued to the purchasers complaint. It said their application was submitted on 11 May 
2021, and was for a mortgage in three names with only two of the applicants on the deeds. 
So Barclays said it had to be sure the third party had taken independent legal advice on 
what this would mean for him. Barclays said the documents it received on this were 
incorrectly completed, because they included two addresses for the solicitors and should 
only have contained one. Barclays said it took some while for the broker to provide this 
correctly, with just one address. Barclays said it also received a couple of pre-contract 
variation forms which meant it had to re-issue the mortgage offer. 
Barclays said the mortgage eventually completed on 24 September 2021, with the funds 
being issued the day before. It did accept there had been some delays on its part. There had 
also been issues with documentation being uploaded, including the survey report, which also 
prolonged the application process.
But Barclays said that if the purchasers were to avoid paying any stamp duty at all, they 
would have needed to complete the purchase by 30 June, which was around six weeks after 
they made their application. Barclays said it was extremely unlikely that this would ever have 
completed within that timescale. So Barclays said it wouldnt pay the purchasers back the 
stamp duty theyd incurred. But, because it did cause some delays, it wanted to offer the 
purchasers £350 in compensation. 
The purchasers didnt want to accept that, so our investigator set out her view on this case. 
She said Barclays offer was fair.
Our investigator said the requirement for a form certifying independent legal advice caused 
delays, and delays were also caused by the live chat system Barclays had in place for 
communicating with the broker. But she didnt think that was why the mortgage didnt 
complete by 30 June. 
Our investigator said the first time the stamp duty cut-off date was mentioned was in an 
email dated 15 June 2021, from the broker. And at this point the broker considered that the 
purchasers already have lost the chance of completing their purchase before the stamp 
duty deadline. 
The valuation was then instructed, because of the brokers intervention, but that wasnt 
completed for another three weeks. But our investigator said she couldnt hold Barclays 
responsible for wider issues, such as conveyancers taking longer than usual at that time.
Our investigator said, on a live chat in mid-June, Barclays had given the broker options on 
information that would be required to apply for the case to be escalated. The broker said this 
had been sent over a week prior, but our investigator said what had been sent unfortunately 
didnt meet the requirements for Barclays to escalate a mortgage application. 
Our investigator noted that the first offer was issued on 29 July 2021, and further offers were 
issued to take advantage of reductions in interest rates. The mortgage completed on 24 
September 2021. So the actual purchase only completed eight weeks after the first offer was 
in place. Our investigator said this suggested that even if Barclays had been able to issue an 
offer sooner, the mortgage probably wouldnt have completed in time to avoid paying stamp 
duty. 
Our investigator did think it was likely that the purchasers and the broker would have been 
very frustrated by the service Barclays provided through its live chats. Barclays had 
accepted there were processing delays, and she thought it had made a fair and reasonable 
offer for that. 
The purchasers representative replied on their behalf, to disagree. They still thought 
Barclays had provided a substandard service which ultimately led to unnecessary stamp 
duty costs. They stressed that there was no chain in this purchase, as well as no need to 
wait for searches. It wasnt Barclays fault that a surveyor took three weeks to do the survey, 
but it was Barclays fault that no surveyor was instructed until mid-June. 
The purchasers representative explained that delays in completing after the stamp duty 
deadline had been missed shouldnt be taken as evidence that completion would always 
have taken that long, and he explained why completion took longer at that particular time. He 
said this was partly due to continued delays by Barclays. It was also partly due to the 
frustrated seller taking a holiday. The purchasers still thought if Barclays had done its job 
properly, they could have completed by 30 June.
On the request for escalation, the representative said he didnt think this was directly 
relevant. And he stressed that the estate agent had been hinting that the property might be 
put back on the market, because of the delays. Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said the mortgage application was submitted 
on 11 May 2021. Even if Barclays had instructed the valuation within a week, by 18 May, it 
was reasonable to assume the valuation would still have taken three weeks.
So, hypothetically, a valuation could have been done by about 8 June. The valuation 
documents then need to be completed and sent, so Barclays mayve received this around 10 
or 11 June.
Our investigator said this was a very busy time for all parties involved in the house buying 
process due to the stamp duty holiday ending on 30 June 2021. The mortgage application 
would then need to be underwritten, and we had to bear in mind that this was an unusual 
mortgage, because one of the parties was on the mortgage but not the deeds. 
Our investigator said that on this hypothetical timetable, without delays caused by Barclays, 
she would still struggle to conclude that completion on or before 30 June 2021 was more 
likely to have happened than not. Thats why our investigator said she didnt think Barclays 
had to refund the purchasers stamp duty payment. 
The purchasers didnt agree. They wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint, so the 
case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
It is clear that this has been a very frustrating process for the purchasers, and their 
representative. And I dont think theres any dispute that Barclays has caused delays in 
completing their mortgage. But, like our investigator, I dont think that these delays and 
lapses in service are the reason why they ended up paying some stamp duty.
Thats because, as our investigator said, I simply dont think it was likely that this purchase 
could have been completed in time. I wont repeat here the hypothetical timetable that she 
set out, Ill just say I agree with the points she has made there, and I take the same view. 
Like her, I think its relevant that this was an application for a mortgage made by three 
borrowers with only two on the deeds. That involves added checks, and so is always likely to 
take a little longer. Like our investigator, I think its very unlikely that any valuer would have 
been less busy, if Barclays had managed to instruct earlier. So this also added at least three 
weeks to an already tight timetable. And this was a time when lenders were incredibly busy.
I do appreciate how upsetting the purchasers would have found it for their target date to be 
so resoundingly missed. But I just dont think, even without the lapses in service I can see 
here, it was ever likely to have been hit. 
Ive thought about whether Barclays offer of £350 in compensation is enough to make up for 
what has gone wrong here, if we set aside the issue of stamp duty. I do think that Barclays 
has provided poor service on a number of occasions, and I think this must have been 
extremely stressful for the purchasers. 
However, I do have to bear in mind all the circumstances of the complaint, when Im 
resolving a case. And here, the purchasers benefitted from a series of reductions in the fixed interest rate for their mortgage, which happened after their preferred deadline was missed. 
Fortuitously, the purchasers are now paying rather less each month for their mortgage. (I 
would not suggest this smaller monthly payment over the fixed interest rate period of their 
mortgage makes up for the upfront cost of the stamp duty they paid, but Ive already 
explained that I dont think Barclays is responsible for that.)
Taking account of all the circumstances in this case, I do think the offer that Barclays has 
made here provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. I understand that this 
hasnt yet been paid, as the purchasers wanted to wait for the outcome of our services 
deliberations. So Ill award this now, and the purchasers can decide if they do wish to 
accept.
I know that the purchasers will be disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to do more 
than that in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr D, Mrs D, and Mr D £350 in 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D, Mr D and 
Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman