DRN-4125075
The complaint
Mr Y complains that National Westminster Bank Plc withdrew a mortgage offer it had made 
to him. He said the amount he wanted to borrow was affordable for him, and as interest rates 
went up in the meantime, hed ended up paying much more to get a mortgage elsewhere.
What happened
Mr Y said he obtained a mortgage offer from NatWest in late March 2022, but then it told him 
the offer had been withdrawn. Mr Y had managed to get a different offer elsewhere, but 
interest rates had risen sharply since then, and his monthly payments would be much more.
Mr Y said hed complained to NatWest about this in August 2022, but hadnt received a
response to his complaint by November, so he wanted us to look into this for him.
NatWest said that it received some new information after Mr Ys mortgage offer was issued,
about the service charge payable on the property Mr Y was buying. Once it reassessed his
application, including this new information, it could no longer lend to Mr Y.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. She said the offer NatWest
had made hadnt accounted for a service charge being payable on the property Mr Y wanted
to buy. So NatWest had to reassess his application later. And when it did so, it would no
longer lend to Mr Y. She said the internal score that NatWests process generated wasnt
the same as the credit score set by a credit reference agency (CRA). She said NatWest
has to reassess an offer in circumstances like this. She thought it had acted appropriately.
But our investigator noted that Mr Y didnt get a prompt response to his complaint. She said
NatWest accepted it was at fault, but hadnt recognised the detriment caused by this, so she
asked it to pay Mr Y £100.
NatWest agreed with our investigator, but Mr Y didnt. He sent further detailed argument,
and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So his case was passed to
me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to ask 
NatWest to do more than our investigator suggested. This is what I said then: 
Mr Y has supplied clear and detailed argument in support of his complaint. Although I 
have summarised this only briefly here, I have considered it carefully.
Our investigator didnt think NatWests mortgage offer had accounted for any service 
charge at all  and I can see she said this because thats how NatWest summarised the 
case for our service on one occasion. But Ive looked at the other comments NatWest 
made, and at its internal notes and the evidence it has provided, and I dont think thats 
most likely to be what happened. I think its most likely that NatWest provided its first 
offer based on its previous understanding of the service charge which would apply to Mr 
Ys new property. And it then changed its mind when this amount increased.
I think this, because NatWest showed us an email it received on 10 May 2022 from Mr 
Ys broker, which says 
The service charge has increased from £87.06pm to £125.55pm
That suggests to me that Mr Ys broker had previously provided service charge 
information for his property, and was now revising it. And I note this also fits with what 
NatWest said to Mr Y in its complaint response letter, where it said it received 
information about an increase in service charges, and then reassessed Mr Ys 
application. I can see from NatWests internal notes, that it went through a revised 
affordability calculation shortly after Mr Ys broker sent the above email. And it was after 
this, that NatWest said it was no longer prepared to offer Mr Y the mortgage he wanted.
Mr Y had already received a mortgage offer from NatWest on 31 March 2022. This offer
contained conditions, those allow NatWest to withdraw a mortgage offer which would
otherwise be binding on it. So what I need to do here, is to check if NatWest acted within
those conditions, when it withdrew Mr Ys offer.
The conditions say this 
This Offer is conditional upon us being satisfied that:
There has been no material change in your circumstances since the date of this 
Offer, which we were not aware of, which could affect your ability to afford the 
loan. By this, we mean a change to your circumstances which, had we known 
about it at the time of making this Offer, might have resulted in us being unable 
to provide the Offer to you or only being able to provide the Offer to you for a 
lower amount.
None of the information which you have provided as part of your application for 
the loan and which we have used to decide whether to provide the Offer to you is 
untrue, inaccurate or incomplete or that you have not withheld information which 
we have requested from you as part of your application for the loan which, if we 
had received this information, might have resulted in us being unable to provide 
the Offer to you or only being able to provide the Offer to you for a lower amount;
There has been no change to the condition, value or title to the property which 
would have a material impact on the suitability of the Property as security for the 
Loan.
I think that NatWest could reasonably have concluded that the change in the anticipated
service charge Mr Y would have to pay each month meant that there had been some
(unintentionally) inaccurate information used in its assessment of whether to lend. And 
that, in turn, means NatWest was able to withdraw the offer it had made.
I understand that Mr Y feels strongly that NatWest couldnt be justified in withdrawing its
offer, because he could still afford this lending. And he says hes secured the same 
lending elsewhere, even though higher interest rates mean hes paying much more each 
month. But it is, broadly speaking, for each lender to assess the risks in offering a 
mortgage. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for NatWest to reach a different 
conclusion about whether it would lend to Mr Y, on the basis of this revised information.
I should also note that, even if NatWest hadnt been entitled to withdraw its offer at this 
stage, I still dont think this complaint could fairly and reasonably have been upheld. Thats because the offer Mr Y did get from NatWest would (if it hadnt been withdrawn) 
have expired on 30 September 2022.
Mr Ys complaint form was sent to our service on 18 November 2022, and he indicated 
then that he still hadnt completed his purchase. So Mr Y would not have been able to 
purchase a property with this mortgage offer in any event. He wasnt ready to complete 
his purchase by the time the offer expired. And the intervening rise in interest rates 
means its very unlikely any offer from NatWest would have been extended for Mr Y.
It appears that Mr Y would always have had to obtain a new mortgage offer, in late 
2022. And with the intervening changes in interest rates, it was always likely that this 
would have meant an increase in monthly payments. So, even if I didnt think NatWest 
was entitled to withdraw its offer, I would still say I couldnt fairly and reasonably ask 
NatWest to cover an increase in payments that Mr Y would always have faced.
Our investigator did think NatWest should pay something though. NatWest accepted 
that it got Mr Ys complaint, and didnt respond to it. So she suggested a payment of 
£100 to make up for NatWests oversight. 
I think that the withdrawal of his mortgage offer was an extremely stressful event for Mr 
Y. Although I dont think NatWest did anything wrong when it withdrew the offer, I do 
think that failing to explain simply and promptly why this had happened is likely to have 
had a further adverse impact on Mr Y. So I agree with our investigators suggestion that 
NatWest should pay £100 in compensation to Mr Y for this. Thats how much I would 
have proposed, if she hadnt already suggested this amount.
I know Mr Y will be disappointed by my intended decision, but I dont currently think 
NatWest has to do more than this.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Only Mr Y replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y provided a detailed response to my provisional decision, which divides into two main 
heads  the completion of his purchase, and the meaning of the conditions set out in his 
mortgage offer.
First, Mr Y challenged my view that it seemed unlikely he could have completed his property 
purchase before his offer from NatWest expired. Mr Y said he was only unable to complete 
his property purchase by this date, because the offer was withdrawn. And he could only get 
a mortgage elsewhere once it became clear NatWest wouldnt change its mind. He said he 
was confident he would otherwise have been able to complete by the offers expiry date. 
Mr Y became aware of NatWests decision to withdraw its offer at the start of July 2022. It 
may have been prudent to obtain a new decision in principle (DIP) at this stage, but Mr Y 
first appealed to NatWest to see if it would change its mind. Mr Y then obtained a decision in 
principle from a different lender in mid-September. 
Mr Y hasnt given us any date for the completion of his property purchase. We know that 
abou two months after this DIP was issued, when he brought his complaint to our service, Mr 
Ys purchase hadnt completed. Theres no mortgage showing on the credit report he sent us for December 2022. And Mr Y referred to this purchase as still being in progress when he 
wrote to us at the start of March 2023. So there appears to have been a substantial delay.
If Mr Ys purchase would otherwise have been ready to complete by the expiry date of the 
first offer, on 30 September, then it does seem somewhat surprising that he then appears to 
have taken quite so long to complete. I cannot rule out that there may be extenuating 
circumstances which explain this. But I have not asked Mr Y for more information and 
evidence on this point, as I still think NatWest was entitled to withdraw its offer, for reasons 
Ill explain below.
Before I turn to the conditions of Mr Ys offer, I note Mr Y has expressed the view that if this 
ground for dismissing his complaint stands, then it would have undesirable consequences. 
He said in the scenario where: (a) a lender makes a mortgage offer in March which expires 
in six months and (b) the lender unlawfully withdraws the offer in May, the consumer must 
then be able to obtain a new mortgage offer and complete the entire conveyancing process 
within four months before they are able to bring a complaint against the original lender for 
the unlawful withdrawal. Mr Y said he didnt believe that would be a correct view, because it 
would introduce an unreasonable time-bar for eligible complaints.
I think I ought to clarify that whether or not Mr Ys mortgage offer would have expired 
anyway before his purchase could be completed isnt being used here to dismiss his 
complaint. So I dont agree that this introduces a time bar. 
What I sought to explain in my provisional decision is that things that have happened after 
the offer was withdrawn, can affect what its fair to ask NatWest to pay. So, here, Mr Y said 
he would have to pay much more for his mortgage each month because of what NatWest 
did. But in my provisional decision I said it seemed likely, on the evidence Id seen so far, 
that Mr Y wouldnt have completed this purchase before his offer from NatWest expired. If 
that were the case, then he would always have had to obtain a new mortgage offer, in late 
2022. And this in turn would always have been more expensive, given the change in interest 
rates. So my point was that if Mr Y was always going to have to pay a higher monthly 
mortgage charge anyway, regardless of any mistakes made by NatWest, then it wouldnt be 
fair and reasonable for me to ask NatWest to cover any increase in payments.
Mr Y then moved on to his second point, about the conditions of the offer made to him, and 
to challenge my conclusion that NatWest was entitled to withdraw its offer. He said Id 
identified that what happened here fell under the second limb of the conditions I reproduced 
above. Mr Y said he agreed with me that what happened didnt fall under limbs one or three, 
although I would note that I had not reached this conclusion in my provisional decision. 
Mr Y said he didnt think that what happened fell under the second limb, briefly, that None of 
the information .. provided as part of your application  is untrue, inaccurate or incomplete 
 Mr Y made two points about this. He said Id misconstrued this condition, and even if I 
hadnt, he said that I should still not penalise him for any innocent mistake.
Mr Y said I should only think about whether the information provided was accurate at the 
time the mortgage application was submitted. He said the requirement in the condition 
wasnt a prospective obligation, so when he put in his application, he didnt need to foresee 
potential changes to the information he gave. He said any material change to the applicant 
or their application would be covered by the first limb of the conditions. And he said that I 
should also infer into this condition a requirement that any mistaken information should have 
been given in bad faith, if it was to trigger the right to withdraw the offer.
Im sorry to have to tell Mr Y that I dont agree. I think that the second limb of NatWests 
conditions could cover both circumstances in which the applicant has deliberately withheld information (which I havent suggested was the case here), and, separately, circumstances 
where the information has turned out to be untrue, inaccurate or incomplete, without the 
applicant being to blame for that (which is what I thought had happened here). 
I see no basis to imply into this condition, as Mr Y suggests, that NatWest is only entitled to 
judge whether information was inaccurate or incomplete as at the date of the application, not 
subsequently. I also dont agree that an innocent mistake cannot possibly trigger this 
condition, as Mr Y suggests. (The conditions he refers to in MCOBs are not an exhaustive 
list.) So I still think that NatWest was entitled to rely on this condition to say that information 
Mr Y had given in good faith had unfortunately turned out to be inaccurate.
Finally, Mr Y also said that Im obliged to determine his complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. He wanted me to 
consider whether the outcome was fair and reasonable for him. He said he was now faced 
with the absurdity that an increase of approximately £40 of service change per month means 
he has to pay approximately £400 extra a month in mortgage payments. 
I understand why Mr Y feels this is unfair. He hasnt done anything wrong, whats happened 
is just unfortunate. And hes told us the withdrawal of his mortgage offer had a significant 
impact on him. But Id invite him to consider the reverse scenario. NatWest made its lending 
decision on one basis. It then found out some of the information it had based this decision on 
was wrong. And although Mr Y argues that this change couldnt possibly be material, when 
NatWest ran its assessment of Mr Ys application again, with this change, it decided it 
couldnt lend him the money he wanted. 
I appreciate that Mr Y may consider hes been disadvantaged through no fault of his own, 
and Im sorry that has happened, but I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require 
NatWest to continue to lend to Mr Y in these circumstances, or to require it to compensate 
Mr Y because it has refused to do so. 
For those reasons, I still dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require NatWest to pay 
Mr Y the difference between the mortgage payments he was expecting, and the ones he 
says hes facing now. But I do still think that failing to explain to Mr Y, simply and promptly, 
why the offer had been withdrawn, is likely to have had a further adverse impact on Mr Y. So 
I still think that NatWest should pay £100 in compensation to Mr Y for this. 
For those reasons, I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the decision I originally 
proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay Mr Y £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman