DRN-2683656
The complaint
Miss K has complained about her let property insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it has 
declined her claim for damage caused to her property by smoke from a smouldering chair 
cushion.
What happened
Miss K was contacted by her tenant. The tenant said hed arrived home and found the 
lounge filled with smoke which was emanating from a loose seat cushion on a chair. He said 
he put the cushion outside. 
When Miss K called AXA to notify it of the claim, it told Miss K that if there hadnt been a 
flame then there would be no cover under the fire peril of the policy, and Miss Ks policy 
didnt have extended accidental damage cover. So AXA said the claim wouldnt succeed. 
Miss K said she was not sure if there were any flames, shed have to check with the tenant. 
Miss K later told AXA there was an ignition  the chair and a nearby mattress had been 
damaged.
AXA was concerned by what it saw as Miss Ks apparent change in story, noting the 
mattress hadnt been mentioned previously. It referred the matter to its special investigation 
team. It also sent an assessor to the property to view the damage. The assessor captured 
an image of the badly burned, mostly unrecognisable cushion. But the assessor said he 
wasnt persuaded that thered been any flames  he thought if there had been, curtains 
which had been in close proximity to the chair, would have caught fire and the tenant 
wouldnt have been able to take the cushion outside.  AXA wrote to Miss K and said it was 
declining her claim as it felt a fire meant something had to have ignited with flames being 
present, otherwise, as in this case, there was just accidental damage. Miss K complained to 
us.
Our investigator felt that the photo evidence of the cushion suggested a fire, in the general 
understanding of the term, had occurred. She said AXA should consider the claim. AXA 
replied stating that it disagreed and that it had followed its own guidance on what defines a 
fire to decline the claim. Our investigator then considered cover offered by other policies and 
told AXA she felt its policy wording  if implemented as AXA was saying was intended  was 
unusual and hadnt been drawn to Miss Ks attention. 
AXA said fire can be defined in many different ways  and it didnt agree with our 
investigator in respect of the other policy wording shed highlighted. AXA said that it 
remained a concern for it that Miss K had changed her story, and it didnt feel it was fair for 
this to be overlooked. The complaint was passed to me.
I felt AXA had acted unfairly and unreasonably, but my reasoning and redress differed to that 
set out by our investigator. I issued a provisional decision. 
My provisional findings were:
change in story
I understand why AXA had concerns in this respect. But I see that whilst it investigated this it 
did not ultimately address its concerns with Miss K. AXA knows that this service will not take 
concerns like this into account when they have not been fully aired with its policyholder. 
Furthermore, in this instance, having made some enquiries, AXA decided to decline the 
claim based on the terms of the policy. So by its own actions it moved beyond the point of 
Miss Ks change in story having relevance. 
  
fire
That said the lack of clarity as to what the tenant saw does mean it isnt clear if there were 
flames or not. However, I think its fair to say that whilst flames are often a common part of 
many fires  there are also a lot of fires which occur without the presence of flames. Flames 
after all are only a possible bi-product or characteristic of a fire, which only occur when 
several elements all come together. If one of those elements is missing then nothing may 
happen at all. But sometimes, the absence of sufficient heat, for example, results in a 
smouldering fire. This type of fire can cause just as much if not more damage than when 
flames break out  they can certainly be harder, in certain circumstances, to extinguish.
 
Of course an insurer can choose what risks it wants to offer cover for. And I can understand 
if AXA wants to only be liable for flaming fires, rather than those which just smoulder. But 
that being the case its policy wording has to clearly reflect that. The wording in question 
here does not. The policy says there is cover for fire, theres no definition and no 
exclusions are listed. 
If there had been no damage to the seat cushion, and given the lack of clarity about what 
had occurred, I could understand AXA declining the claim on the basis of there not having 
been a fire. But the cushion is blackened and charred, it has all but been destroyed. This 
isnt something I would describe as lightly scorched, it isnt just a bit of discolouration. It is 
fire damaged.
The assessor when visiting the property, accepted that smoke, from the chair cushion had 
caused damage. Im satisfied that the cushion was damaged by fire, so the policy needs to 
respond to the smoke damage under that section of the cover.
I understand that Miss K, because her tenant had to be moved out due to the smoke and in 
order to mitigate her loss, undertook work to reinstate the property. Property reinstatement is 
only one of the settlement methods available to AXA under the policy. But AXAs failure to 
reasonably accept the claim has taken this matter beyond the point where it could do the 
necessary work. The fair outcome then is that AXAs settlement is based on Miss Ks costs 
to repair. There will likely be a claim for lost rent to consider too. Miss K will have to work 
with AXA as it considers her claim in order to determine what her loss is and what part of 
that it is reasonably liable for under the policy.
 
I can see that AXAs decline has been frustrating for Miss K. And I think she likely had some 
inconvenience in arranging repairs without the support shed reasonably expected to receive 
from AXA. I think it should pay her £100 compensation. 
 
AXA didnt reply. Miss K said her costs had included interest and/or fees on borrowed 
money. She also said £100 compensation was insufficient given what shed been through.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss K had to borrow money; using credit cards and overdraft 
arrangements to cover her costs incurred due to AXAs unfair and unreasonable decline of 
her claim. I remain of the view that AXA has to settle the claim based on the costs Miss K 
incurred and I think its reasonable to view Miss Ks cost of borrowing as part of that loss. So, 
upon sight of proof from Miss K showing her outlay, AXA will have to factor this into its 
settlement.
Miss K has said the £100 compensation Ive awarded is insufficient. I appreciate this was a 
difficult time for Miss K, which would have been made easier if AXA hadnt let her down. But 
I am satisfied that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
My provisional findings havent changed. They now form part of the findings of this, my final 
decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to settle Miss Ks claim for fire damage as directed and consider any related 
claim for lost rent. I also intend to require it to pay her £100 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to undertake and provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman