DRN-3825384
The complaint
Miss O and Mr T complain that St Andrews Insurance Plc has treated them unfairly when 
calculating the cost of their buildings insurance policy over a number of years.
What happened
Miss O and Mr T purchased their home insurance when mortgaging their property. The 
premium was added to the mortgage and collected with the monthly mortgage payment and 
Miss O and Mr T say because of this, they failed to notice the cost of their policy increasing 
overtime. 
In 2007, the cost of the insurance was £444.80. In 2018 Miss O and Mr T realised this had 
increased to £1154.01 for the year. They felt this was too high and shopped around online. 
They found similar cover for considerably less with a different provider. 
In 2021 after shopping around again at renewal, Miss T and Mr O found that St Andrews 
could offer them a policy for less than £400 for the year. They felt this indicated that 
St Andrews had treated them unfairly in the past and they made a complaint, asking that it 
refund any overpayments made when the price was increased unfairly.
Our investigator looked at Miss O and Mr Ts complaint. She explained that she felt it was 
fair to say Miss O and Mr T had been inert on the cost of their insurance  they hadnt 
engaged directly with St Andrews on the policy premium during the time they had it. This 
was because of the policy being attached to the mortgage and Miss O and Mr T said it made 
it more difficult for them to realise it was increasing in price. Our investigator felt their lack of 
engagement meant they were vulnerable to being treated unfairly. 
She looked at how the price of the policy had increased from 2007 when St Andrews was 
able to provide details of the price from. She felt the increases until 2012 were reflective of it 
recouping a new business discount applied when the policy was taken out. After this point, 
she didnt think St Andrews had been able to explain why the price had increased as it did 
until 2018 when it was cancelled. So she asked St Andrews to refund the difference in what 
Miss O and Mr T paid from 2012 onwards in excess of this price.
St Andrews responded and accepted that there were times when it wasnt able to explain 
why the price increased as it had. It provided information about its pricing model which 
showed there was years when the increases to Miss T and Mr Os policy were in excess of 
what they feel it should have been. As a result, St Andrews offered a refund of £427.08 plus 
8% interest to Miss O and Mr T. It felt this fairly addressed the times when the premium 
increases exceeded what the pricing model indicated this should have been. This also 
reflected a refund of anything paid in excess of the 2012 price for 2013 and 2014. Our 
investigator put the offer to Miss O and Mr T and explained that she felt this was fair.
Miss O and Mr T have not accepted the offer. They have questioned how St Andrews is able 
to offer a very similar policy for under £400. They feel having compared the price now and 
recently in the past, St Andrews has consistently offered a new policy at or around this price, 
even the impact of a recent claim hasnt seen it offer a new policy for more than £600. They 
believe the only justification for the constant increase in price is that St Andrews price 
walked them previously and has treated them unfairly.
Theyve also questioned what No Claims Discount (NCD) was applied to the policy and if it 
ever was applied and how St Andrews can justify an average yearly price increase of around 
10% on their policy when this is being applied too. And they feel Insurance Premium Tax 
(IPT) changes during this period have been minimal and dont explain the increase. Theyve 
also asked for more information about the benchmark our investigator referred to.
Because they disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and think the offer made by St Andrews to put things 
right is fair. I know Miss O and Mr T will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain how Ive 
reached this decision.
It isnt disputed that Miss O and Mr T didnt engage with St Andrews about the cost of their 
policy during the years their home was insured with it. And St Andrews accepts, following 
our investigators assessment, that Miss O and Mr Ts price for their insurance during this 
time didnt always reflect that it was treating them fairly. 
The offer made to put things right here is what is now in dispute and whether this is a fair 
way to put things right.
Miss O and Mr T have questions about the amount offered. The main driver with these 
questions is the price theyve been able to find similar cover for now with St Andrews. 
It is understandable why, when looking at what they could insure their home for now, Miss O 
and Mr T feel the refund isnt reflective of how much they believe theyve been overcharged. 
There is a stark difference between the cost of the policy when cancelled and the cost of the 
policy quoted by Mr T as what is achievable through St Andrews now. But it is important to 
explain that the price of insurance policies can vary significantly between insurers and even 
with the same insurer, the sales channel and product provided can mean a simple 
comparison of one policy against another cannot be taken to show that the price was wrong 
or unfair. 
Recent changes to price regulation for home and motor insurance have set to address 
issues with general insurance. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) implemented new 
rules this year which mean insurers must, at renewal, offer existing customers a price 
equivalent to the price a new customer would be offered with the same circumstances. But 
these rules accept that there will be a difference in price offered between insurers and 
between the sales channel. Put simply, it recognises some sales channels may have a 
different price point based on the costs of the channel itself.
St Andrews hasnt explained how Miss O and Mr Ts policy was taken out. But it was taken 
out alongside a mortgage and it is likely this was taken out in branch and not through a comparison website.  And the prices Miss O and Mr T have provided as comparisons may 
be showing the cost of a policy sold through a different channel.
With the above in mind, Ive looked at the information provided by St Andrews to explain why 
it feels the price increased as it did. And when it thinks this didnt demonstrate it was treating 
Miss O and Mr T fairly, whether the offer now addresses this unfairness based on the policy 
they had. 
It was common for insurers to apply a new business discount when a policy was first taken 
out and that the discount applied at inception, be recouped over a number of years as the 
policy renewed. The FCAs new pricing rules have looked to remove this practice but these 
are not retrospective. 
St Andrews has explained it did provide a new customer discount on Miss O and Mr Ts 
policy and it wasnt until 2012 that it had recouped this discount. So it feels these price 
increases are fair. As Miss O and Mr T had the benefit of the reduced premium for the first 
years of the policy, I dont think St Andrews acted unfairly when this was recouped.
Mr T explained to our investigator that he felt once the discount had been recouped that the 
price should have reduced. However, this discount often took the cost of the policy below the 
price the business needed to charge to be sustainable. I wouldnt expect a price to decrease 
once the premium had been brought to where the business deemed it should be to be 
economical. I also think it fair that this would include allowing a margin for profit. 
So I think St Andrews increased the price of Miss O and Mr Ts policy fairly up until 2012 and 
Miss O and Mr T had the benefit of this discount when the policy was taken out. 
Once the discount had been recouped, although I dont agree it would be fair to expect the 
premium to start to reduce again, it is fair to expect the business to be able to explain why 
the price continued to increase. Inert customers are vulnerable to accepting price increases 
without question and if these are simply because of an increase in the margin and not 
because a change to the risk or underlying cost of the policy, this wouldnt be fair. 
After 2012 St Andrews hasnt been able to explain why the price increased as it did with 
Miss O and Mr Ts policy until 2015. It has accepted it is fair to refund the difference paid in 
excess of the price in 2012 and the price paid in 2013 and 2014, allowing for an increase 
only in line with inflation. This is in line with what Id expect it to do and so I think it has acted 
fairly here.
In 2015 St Andrews introduced a new pricing model for all its customers. I cant share the 
details of this with Miss O and Mrs T as it is commercially sensitive. But the steps taken by 
St Andrews meant it applied set parameters to all of its policies with a maximum target it 
expected to charge. Anything within this target amount demonstrated the customer was 
being treated fairly, in line with the maximum other customers with the same policy sold 
through the same channel would be charged. 
St Andrews reviewed Miss O and Mr Ts premium history against this model and has 
identified that there were some years when their premium was in excess of the target and it 
hasnt been able to explain why this was. So it isnt sure the price charged was fair and it has 
made an offer to put this right. The refund offered addresses the difference in price paid and 
what Miss O and Mr T would have paid had the price not exceeded the target model. So I 
think its a fair offer as it puts them in the position they would have been in had there been 
no error.Mr T doesnt think the explanation provided by St Andrews to this service about the models it 
has in place is fair or justified. He said the quotes he has received are so far away in price 
from what he was actually paying, that these models cannot have been applied across its 
insurance.  As Ive said earlier though, the quotes Miss O and Mr T have relied on to 
demonstrate the unfairness of their price are through an online comparison and it is likely 
this is a different channel and product to the one they had previously with St Andrews. And 
having compared the quote and their previous renewals, I dont think the level of cover is 
identical. So simply comparing the two prices doesnt indicate what price the insurance 
should have been. Nor does it demonstrate if Miss O and Mr T were being treated fairly or 
not by St Andrews previously.
Lloyds hasnt specifically pointed to changes in IPT as justification for the price increases 
with Miss O and Mr Ts policy. But during the time they were insured with St Andrews, IPT 
increased from 5% to 12% so there was a fairly large increase in these during this time. But 
St Andrews hasnt explained this was the reason for the price increases on the policy and 
there was no change in the IPT rate for the 2013 and 2014 policies.
Miss O and Mr T have also questioned whether the NCD was applied to their policy and 
what the level of discount was. The renewal documents state a discount of 30% was applied 
each year for their NCD and this is worked into the policy price overall. St Andrews has 
provided evidence to show this discount was applied at this level to the policy and Ive seen 
nothing to indicate that the discount quoted in the renewal document was incorrect.
Overall, considering everything provided, I think the offer made by St Andrews is fair. I feel it 
addresses the points in time when St Andrews didnt treat Miss O and Mr T fairly and puts 
right this unfairness in line with how Id expect it to. 
Putting things right
St Andrews Insurance Plc should:
Refund Miss T and Mr O the difference paid in excess of the price of their insurance 
in 2012 and the price paid in 2013 and 2014, allowing for increases in line with 
inflation.
From 2015 through until the policy was cancelled in 2018, refund Miss O and Mr T 
anything paid in excess of St Andrews target price for their insurance for these 
years.
It should apply 8% simple interest to this payment. If it feels it needs to deduct tax 
from this, it must upon request, provide Miss O and Mr T a certificate to confirm the 
tax deducted.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss T and Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O and Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman