DRN-3786349
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Ltd mishandled his claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Admiral, I refer to the above-named insurance company and I include 
employees and others insofar as I hold Admiral responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is an executive saloon car, first registered 
in 2008.
For the period of nearly a year from early May 2021 to late April 2022, Mr P insured the car 
on a comprehensive policy with Admiral.
By January 2022, the car had a recorded mileage of about 150,000.
Unfortunately, in January 2022, the car was damaged in an incident with another party, who 
also happened to be insured with Admiral. The other party accepted responsibility for the 
accident  but not for all the damage on Mr Ps car.
Admiral inspected Mr Ps car. In early February 2022, Mr P had telephone calls with Admiral. 
It told him that the other party was disputing some of the damage to Mr Ps car. Admiral said 
Mr Ps car had pre-existing damage at the time of the accident. Admiral offered Mr P cash in 
lieu of repairs - £1,073.74.
Mr P complained to Admiral about how it had handled the telephone calls and about the 
cash in lieu. Later in February 2022, Mr P complained about delay in responding to his 
complaint. He also contacted us.
By a final response dated late March 2022, Admiral turned down Mr Ps complaint about the 
cash in lieu. But it upheld his complaints about the telephone calls and said it was sending a 
cheque for £75.00 compensation.
By a final response dated late April 2022, Admiral said it was sending a cheque for £30.00 
compensation for delays in responding to his complaint. 
Mr P sent the damaged car to his preferred repair garage. It gave him an estimate of over 
£2,000.00 to repair the car.
In late April 2022, Mr P sent us a complaint form. He included complaints about the cash in 
lieu of repairs, the cost of a replacement car, his wasted time and pain and stiffness in his 
neck.
By a final response dated early August 2022, Admiral turned down the complaint, save that it 
said it was sending a cheque for an additional £25.00 for delay in responding to the 
complaint.
Our investigator said that Mr P had made a claim on the other partys policy, rather than on 
his own. So his complaint about that claim wasnt within our remit. The investigator said he 
couldnt comment on Mr Ps claim against the other party for personal injury.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably throughout the claim and complaint process.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that: 
The accident caused him a personal injury.
It took Admiral 79 days to reply to his complaint. 
He had to ask several times in order to get specific information from Admiral. For 
example, he asked regarding how he could have legal advice.
It looked as if Admiral were trying to help the other party and not him. 
The way Admiral handled his calls was dishonest and misleading.
He managed to repair the car without accepting any of their money because he could 
afford it. 
£75.00 isnt realistic compensation for his time and frustration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We can only investigate a complaint by an eligible complainant against a 
regulated financial firm about a regulated or ancillary activity. A complainant will be eligible if 
his complaint against the firm arises out of their relationship as a customer or policyholder.
Also, a consumer must first complain to the regulated firm and wait for up to eight weeks for 
a final response before we can investigate that complaint. 
Motor insurance policies cover the policyholder against liability to other road users. A motor 
insurer is responsible for dealing on behalf of its policyholder with any other partys claim 
that the policyholder has caused damage or injury. 
Comprehensive motor insurance policies also cover the policyholder for accident damage to 
their own vehicle.
Some motor insurance policies also cover the policyholder for specified amounts of 
compensation for serious injury such as loss of a limb. Some motor policies also cover 
certain legal services.
If the policyholder has complained to their insurer that it has mishandled a claim, then the 
policyholder is an eligible complainant making a complaint about a regulated activity.
But if the party who has suffered the damage or injury has complained to the policyholders 
insurer that it has mishandled the claim, then that party is not an eligible complainant. That is 
because his complaint arises out of a claim against the insurers policyholder, not out of a 
relationship as the insurers policyholder.From what Mr P has said, and from Admirals engineers report, I find that his car already 
had damage behind its front bumper and a front wing before the accident in January 2022.
From the policy schedule, I see that Mr P had the benefit of motor legal protection and 
personal injury plus.
The accident caused damage to Mr Ps car. I have no reason to doubt his statement that it 
also caused him an injury, but he ignored the symptoms and didnt report them to Admiral at 
the time. The accident was, in my view, also bound to cause Mr P to spend some time in 
dealing with a claim and spending time on telephone calls and emails.
I find that in early February 2022, Admiral gave Mr P incorrect information about getting  
legal advice, but it corrected that information the same day.
Admiral treated Mr P as making a claim on the other partys policy rather than on his own. 
So it didnt appoint a claims-handler to act as his representative. 
Insofar as Mr P hadnt made a claim under his policy, there is an issue whether he was an 
eligible complainant to complain about how Admiral dealt with his claim under the policy of 
the other party.
However, Mr P repeatedly asked for separate representation and said he was willing to 
make a claim on his policy. Mr P asked Admiral whether it wouldve dealt differently with his 
damage claim if he had made a claim on his policy. Admiral said it wouldnt have made any 
difference and Mr P complained about that. 
So I consider that Mr P was an eligible complainant to complain about how Admiral dealt 
with his claim.
I dont consider that Admiral was as clear with Mr P as it shouldve been about his options. I 
think there were times when Admiral lost sight of the fact that Mr P was also one of its 
policyholders. I accept that Mr P felt that Admiral was trying to minimise the claim against the 
other party.
However- on the central issue of the claim for repairs - Admiral had input from its approved 
repairer and from its own engineer. That identified pre-existing damage and proposed a 
figure for cash in lieu of repairs for the damage caused in the January 2022 accident.
After the complaint in early February 2022, Admirals first final response in late March 2022 
was within the eight weeks allowed by the rules. 
Whilst I accept that Mr P got a repair estimate from his own repairer, I consider that he has 
fallen well short of showing that Admiral shouldve paid him more than £1,073.74 under his 
policy.
From what hes said, Mr P continued to use the damaged car until he got his repairer to fix it. 
He has referred to a (temporary) replacement car, but he hasnt provided enough detail 
about its cost. His own policy didnt cover a courtesy car if Admiral paid cash in lieu of 
repairs. And I dont consider that I can direct Admiral to reimburse him under the other 
partys policy.
When he signed our complaint form in April 2022, Mr P said that he hadnt yet claimed for 
personal injury. So I dont consider that the rules allow me to make any findings on any  
complaint about that.
I accept that Mr Ps time is valuable. But Im not persuaded that Admiral unreasonably 
wasted his time. Admiral said it was sending Mr P a total of £130.00. Im satisfied that this was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the extra distress and inconvenience Mr P suffered as a result 
of the shortcomings Ive identified in Admirals service to him. I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Admiral to pay Mr P any more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Admiral Insurance Company Ltd to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman