DRN-3089200
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was unfairly charged fees  that she wasnt told were optional  
by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
In 2002, Miss S was advised to invest in a Stocks and Shares Mini ISA, referred to as the 
investment. I note she agreed to invest a lump sum and thereafter £100 a month in the 
Tracker Trust Fund. 
Nationwide managed the investment until 2008, when it was taken over by Legal and 
General (L&G). In 2016, the business was taken over again, this time by Aegon.
I understand that in November 2020 Miss S requested Aegon to cancel the 0.5% service 
charge applied to the investment that funded its advice services, which was done in due 
course. She also complained to Nationwide  through a Financial Planning Manager (FPM) 
 about paying for a service she didnt know she could opt out of.  
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. In short it said that it didnt do anything wrong and 
that the charges were made clear to her from the outset. Unhappy with Nationwides 
response, Miss S referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Nationwide made clear in its product literature that it was charging a fee, namely a 
periodic management charge of 1% per year of the value of the tracker fund assets. 
The product literature also made clear that charges include investment management, 
administration and other adjustments. 
Miss S agreed to these terms  for the life time of the product  before proceeding 
with the investment. She will have signed the relevant forms from the outset. 
In 2008, when the investment was taken over by L&G, Nationwide still retained 
responsibility for servicing, and advice when requested. 
Although new terms and conditions were issued, an annual management fee still 
applied, and L&G continued to pay an ongoing commission to Nationwide out of the 
annual management charge (AMC). Over time, Miss S received correspondence 
from Nationwide and the two other businesses because of this. 
Whilst Miss S couldve opted out of this in 2013, she wouldve had to have contacted 
a FPM. Opting out of the charges wasnt something the business was required to 
promote. 
In 2014, the new business explained that the service charge was agreed with 
Nationwide  the business that introduced the investment to its Investor Portfolio 
Service (IPS) platform  and that more information was available from Nationwide. 
In 2015, the business issued a letter about the charges. It made clear that 
Nationwide charges were made up of the commission they received and any existing 
separate charges  it also encouraged Miss S to speak to Nationwide about her 
options going forward. 
Nationwide also made clear that when Aegon replaced the previous platform with 
L&G in 2016, it was possible to request a cancellation directly with Aegon, although 
the consequences of doing so would mean removal of services provided by 
Nationwide. 
In the circumstances, Nationwide hasnt behaved unreasonably. 
On balance, shes satisfied Miss S agreed to pay Nationwide from the start of the 
investment and was kept informed of any changes. She was also encouraged to 
contact Nationwide if she needed to. 
Miss S disagreed with the investigators conclusion. In short, she said:
The conclusion was as she suspected  Goliath defeats David once again. She 
despairs of customer service today. 
Nationwide on its website states Were a building society, or mutual, owned by our 
members. Thats anyone who banks, saves or has a mortgage with us. Were run for 
their benefit and to help the communities around us. Were not run for shareholders 
in the same way that banks are  but that ethos doesnt accord with Nationwide not 
having to promote the option to opt out.   
She wasnt made aware the charge was for advice (which she hasnt received) rather 
than for the maintenance of the account. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss S says, Im not persuaded 
that she was paying optional charges (without her knowledge or otherwise) or any charges 
that Nationwide wasnt providing a service for.
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Miss Ss strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss S and Nationwide, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must into account the relevant law, regulation and 
best industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information 
Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. Ultimately, its for me to 
decide if Nationwide has behaved unreasonably, its not for me to specifically decide 
whether (or not) its behaviour is in line with its ethos.   Im mindful the investment was taken out with Nationwide following advice in 2002, but the 
suitability of the advice isnt the subject of this complaint. Based on what Miss S says, it 
seems to me that the transparency surrounding the charges, and knowing what shes paying 
for, is whats at the heart of this complaint. I note Miss S thought she was only paying for the 
maintenance of her investment, which isnt correct. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Miss S 
wouldnt have to pay for the service provided by Nationwide. In this instance, it was for Miss 
S to ask for advice, it wasnt for Nationwide to proactively provide it, therefore Im not 
persuaded it has done anything wrong by not doing so. 
I appreciate Miss S suggests that she couldnt have asked for a service she wasnt aware of. 
But she also thought that advice was free of charge, but still didnt ask for it, which would 
suggest that she didnt want/need any advice at the time in any event. 
But the opportunity to seek advice  free of any additional charge  if she wanted/needed to, 
was still there. Just because she didnt use it doesnt mean shes lost out. Having recently 
cancelled the 0.5% charge, going forward shes no longer entitled to this service  advice, 
upon request  without an additional fee. I note Nationwide says shell have to pay a lump-
sum charge based on her full investment value if she ever needs advice in the future.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied Nationwide made clear that it 
would charge a fee for its services. I note the investigator refers to periodic management 
charge of 1% per year of the value of the tracker fund assets as set out in the Financial 
Planning Report. I also note Nationwide made clear that the commission would be taken out 
of the AMC and not in addition to it. In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that 
Miss S agreed to this by virtue of signing the relevant forms and having been supplied with 
the relevant documentation from the outset.
Over time, Im satisfied Miss S will have also received the correspondence referred to by 
Nationwide, from itself and L&G, and Aegon that subsequently took over Miss Ss 
investment. So, despite what she says, I think it wouldve been clear from this and the 
annual statements she received that Nationwide was still receiving commission from her 
account.
In other words, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the position 
regarding the commission that was being paid to Nationwide was made reasonably clear to 
Miss S, not only when she took out the investment in 2002, but when it was taken over in 
2008 and 2016 and the period in between.
Despite what Miss S says, it was reasonably clear that Nationwide still had a part to play in 
her investment. Its role didnt cease just because her investment was taken over by L&G and 
later Aegon  until it migrated the investments to Aegons platform.  
So, for example in 2008, when Nationwides investment products and funds were taken over 
by L&G, Nationwide still retained responsibility for servicing and financial advice when 
requested. In other words, Nationwide was still charging Miss S for services that it was still 
providing in respect of its funds. 
I note Nationwide says that after L&G took over, L&G continued to pay the commission 
element of the AMC to Nationwide, and in turn it continued to provide advice services 
without further charge, upon request. Its investment committee also maintained oversight of 
the panel of funds available to invest in. Based on what Nationwide says I dont think these 
were optional fees either, which Miss S had to expressly opt in to pay. In reference to the brief chronology of events, I note in 2009, following a financial review, 
Miss S wished to save an additional £50 a month into the Tracker Trust Fund  renamed 
L&G(N) Tracker Trust A Fund, which was the same Nationwide fund, taken over and 
renamed by L&G. 
I note in 2011, upon transfer to L&Gs IPS platform, the AMC was renamed/referred to as the 
Ongoing Charge Figure (OCF) comprised of a Fund Manager charge, a Platform Fee and 
Nationwide commission. So, Miss S knew, or ought reasonably to have known that she was 
still paying Nationwide for its services. If there were any doubt, she couldve contacted 
Nationwide to clarify.  
I note in late 2014, a fees and payment letter was sent to Miss S, ahead of her cash ISA 
transfer shed applied for. It confirmed the cost of the IPS platform fee and a 0.5% service 
charge that she agreed to be paid to the company that introduced her to the IPS, in this case 
Nationwide. 
The letter also explained that customers who invested before December 2012, upon adding 
to their investment on a self-directed basis without advice, wouldnt pay an initial transaction 
charge but would pay a 0.5% per year service charge. 
In 2014, Miss S made a £6,500 lump sum cash ISA transfer into the Stocks and Shares ISA 
 in the L&G(N) Tracker Trust C Fund  which was subject to the non-optional service 
charge, instead of commission which was being applied from 1 April 2014.
 
I note in 2015, unit sales from the C Fund commenced to fund the monthly 0.5% service 
charge that was paid to Nationwide. This was instead of commission as was charged on the 
A Fund of her Tracker ISA which was funded out of the OCF previously (known as the 
annual management charge). 
It was only after May 2019, when Aegons own platform replaced the IPS platform  taken 
over from L&G  that it became possible to request Aegon to halt that charge. Thats when 
the Tracker Trust A and Tracker Trust C Funds were re-registered away from the IPS 
platform and on to Aegons new platform that started at this time. 
Based on what Nationwide says, it seems that in 2013 Miss S potentially couldve opted out 
of paying the commission, but only if she contacted the FPM, which she didnt do. I 
understand that Nationwide says it had no requirement to encourage Miss S from being a 
Nationwide customer or cease her right to advice services, and that paying the commission 
meant Miss S had access to a variety of services offered by Nationwide, which she obviously 
wouldnt have had access to if she cancelled the commission payment. I appreciate Miss S 
disagrees with Nationwide, but in the circumstances and on balance, I dont think its 
conclusion is unreasonable.  
As Ive already explained above, the advice service was upon request, it wasnt a proactive 
service and therefore Nationwide wasnt obliged to encourage her to seek advice. If Miss S 
wanted to speak to an FPM and discuss any concern, she had the option to do so.
On balance Im satisfied Nationwide made clear that the 0.5% service charge was effectively 
a replacement for the commission applied when investors distributed their holdings by 
making non-advised top-up investments, or fund switches on the IPS platform. 
Only after the Aegon platform migration could investors choose to switch off the service 
charge, and this severed the relationship with Nationwide, and the right to receive future 
advice or access to Nationwide services mentioned.I understand the optional service charge was offered on all new advised investments from 
January 2013  it wasnt the same as the non-optional service charge, which was 
automatically applied to commission paying customers, in place of ongoing commission 
payment. This doesnt mean that Miss C was punished for being a loyal customer. 
I appreciate Miss Ss unhappy about new customers not having to pay commission and she 
feels this is unfair. 
It might be useful to explain that trail commission was in due course outlawed by the industry 
regulator, the Financial Services Authority (now the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA)), 
as part of its Retail Distribution Review (RDR) for any new investments. 
The RDR  which came into force around January 2013 and ruled out trail commission  
only applies to new investments sold after this time  so it doesnt apply to Miss Ss 
investment, and shes not entitled to her money back because of it.  
I appreciate Miss Ss overall concerns with the situation and recognise she will be 
disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. But having given the 
matter careful consideration, I dont feel able to conclude that this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complain. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman