DRN-3757825
The complaint
Mr K complains he received incorrect information from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn).
What happened
Mr K acquired a used vehicle in November 2019 by entering into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
In October 2021, Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident. He says his insurance 
company had written off the vehicle. He says one of the options the insurance company 
gave him was to keep the vehicle to repair it. So he says he contacted Moneybarn to check if 
that was okay and within his terms to do so. Mr K says he was told by Moneybarn that he 
could go ahead and get the car repaired himself and carry on paying his monthly 
repayments as long as he was happy with the repair.
Mr K complained to Moneybarn as he says he later found out that he shouldnt have repaired 
the car and was unhappy Moneybarn were requesting the return of it. Mr K says it was his 
only mode of transport and it has been difficult travelling around.
Moneybarn say that when Mr K contacted them following the accident, they explained that if 
he wanted to keep the car, the full early settlement figure of £6,160.20 would have to be paid 
before 10 November 2021. They say they also went onto explain that Mr Ks insurance 
company would send them a settlement amount for the vehicle and that Mr K would be 
expected to pay any remaining amount between the settlement figure and the settlement 
amount for the vehicle. They also say they told Mr K in a further conversation that if he 
doesnt repay the early settlement figure in full, then he would not be able to retain the 
salvaged vehicle.
So, Moneybarn didnt think they did anything wrong and say they gave correct information 
regarding the insurance write off process.
Mr K, unhappy with Moneybarns response, referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator found that Moneybarn didnt need to do anything further. She says, having relied 
on the call notes provided in the absence of having access to the call recordings, she 
thought Moneybarn hadnt given incorrect information to Mr K.
Mr K disagreed. So the case was passed to me for a decision. I asked Moneybarn to provide 
a copy of the call recordings from the time which Ive received.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2023 where I explained why I intended to not 
uphold Mr Ks complaint. In that decision I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to not uphold this complaint and Ill explain why 
below.
Where a vehicle is damaged, an insurer might decide it should be written-off (also known as 
a total loss). This might be because of the type of damage to the vehicle or because the 
insurer thinks its uneconomical to repair it. 
Under normal circumstances when an insurer settles a total loss claim under a motor policy 
it retains the salvage (which means it takes possession of the vehicle in its damaged state). 
However, there are occasions when the consumer wishes to retain the salvage. 
I have firstly considered the terms Mr K would have agreed to when he took the finance. 
The Insurance section of the terms and conditions, specifically section 5.10 says:
In the event of the goods being declared a total loss, any insurance monies you receive 
will be payable to us with immediate effect. 
The terms also say in section 5.9:
If the goods are considered a total loss by the insurer then the following amounts will 
become immediately payable:
all unpaid payments and other sums due that you should have paid under this Agreement 
before the total loss; and
the rest of the total amount payable under this Agreement less a rebate for early settlement 
as required by law.
I think Mr K would have understood from the terms the next steps in the event of a total loss 
to the acquired vehicle. But I also appreciate the terms are silent on the specific issue of 
salvaged cars and Mr K believes he was given incorrect information from Moneybarn when 
he notified them of his accident. 
So, what I need to consider is whether Moneybarn gave Mr K incorrect information and told 
him that should he wish to keep the vehicle and repair it in the event his insurers considered 
it a write-off, then he could continue with his repayments under his agreement.
On 13 October 2021 Mr K contacted Moneybarn to inform them that he was told by his 
insurers that the vehicle is uneconomical to repair. Moneybarn said:
If they allow you to keep the vehicle the finance itself needs to be settled first before 
you can do this [the insurer] can pay us directly to get this settled. In the meantime, I have 
emailed you our early settlement figures. You need to forward the whole email to [the 
insurer]your early settlement figures are £6,160.20this is valid until 10 November.
Mr K goes on to say:
Do I have to pay the difference left?, 
to which Moneybarn responded:
Yes, any shortfall, any difference has to come from yourself and we can arrange an 
affordable, sustainable payment plan with you later on.
Moneybarn later on the call reiterated that Mr K would need to settle the agreement and 
finance if he wished to keep the salvage.In a further call Mr K made to Moneybarn on 15 October 2021, Moneybarn asked Mr K for 
confirmation on whether the car was written off by the insurers as their checks werent 
showing it as written off on their system yet. Mr K wasnt sure, and so Moneybarn explained 
to him that:
 if the vehicle hadnt been written off and it is affordable for you to go ahead and fix the 
vehicleyou keep the vehicleand then you maintain the payments on the agreement.
Moneybarn made it clear during the call that Mr Ks options revolved around whether the car 
was written off or not. They explained, if it had been, then Mr K would need to settle the 
agreement. But if it hadnt been, then Mr K could continue with his monthly repayments if he 
chose to repair it himself.
At no point during the calls did Moneybarn say  if the vehicle was written off  that Mr K 
could get the car repaired himself and carry on paying his monthly repayments.
I have also seen a copy of the early settlement figure Moneybarn had sent Mr K following his 
initial call with them. Within this it states the early settlement figure and the deadline for 
which the full amount needed to be paid. The date of this letter is the same date when Mr K 
initially contacted Moneybarn about the accident.
Im satisfied Moneybarn hasnt provided Mr K with incorrect information and what they told 
Mr K was consistent and in line with their terms. So I wont be asking Moneybarn to do 
anything differently in this instance.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Neither Moneybarn nor Mr K responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I didnt receive a response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
So, in this instance, I wont be asking Moneybarn to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman