DRN-3615985
The complaint
Mr C complains about the customer service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
after it contacted him about potential fraud on his account.
What happened
In late 2021, Nationwide called Mr C to discuss a transaction hed made via online banking. 
Mr C raised concerns that the caller might not be a genuine Nationwide employee, 
particularly because the call was coming from a private number. The adviser gave him a 
direct line number to call back on, which he said Mr C would be able to validate online. He 
suggested Mr C call the number on the back of his debit card if he didnt feel comfortable 
calling the direct line.
Mr C says he couldnt get through using the number on his debit card. He heard a message 
telling him to call back during office hours. It was a Sunday, so Mr C phoned the direct line 
number he was given.
The second Nationwide adviser Mr C spoke to said shed need to ask him some questions to 
protect him from falling victim to a scam or fraud.  Mr C was reluctant to answer some of 
these questions as he felt they were intrusive. The adviser told Mr C that she wouldnt be 
able to release the funds without further information. 
Mr C asked for the transaction to be cancelled and said he would be closing the account. 
The adviser told Mr C she would be putting a block on the account and he would need to go 
into branch so Nationwides scam concerns could be ruled out. After Mr C gave the adviser 
some further information, she agreed to remove the block and release the payment. 
However, Mr C remained unhappy and raised a complaint with Nationwide.
Nationwide acknowledged that the first adviser should have given Mr C clearer information 
about what to do if he called the number on the back of his debit card. It said the second 
adviser had followed Nationwides process guidelines correctly, which was to protect 
members against potential authorised push payment fraud. 
Mr C asked our service to consider his complaint, but our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. She thought Nationwide had acted reasonably as it had followed its fraud 
protection process.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators outcome. He questioned why Nationwide had 
continued to interrogate him when hed exonerated it of any liability. He said he didnt 
understand why Nationwide could freeze his entire account when hed initially refused to 
provide the requested information and asked it to cancel the transaction. He didnt think 
there was reason for Nationwide to warrant such action when it had already established that 
it was speaking to the account holder. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive considered all of his comments. However, Ive focused on 
what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of this complaint, rather than addressing each 
of his points individually.
Mr C has raised concerns about Nationwides policies and processes. However, its not this 
services role to tell Nationwide what policies or procedures to put in place. My role is to 
consider whether or not Nationwide has acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions 
of Mr Cs account.
The relevant regulations require Nationwide to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. Nationwide also had a duty to protect the money in Mr Cs 
account from potential fraud.
The terms and conditions of the account give Nationwide the right to stop money being paid 
into or out of it in certain situations, including when it believes its necessary for the 
protection of the account holder and/or Nationwide. 
Nationwide has acknowledged that the first adviser he spoke to could have been a bit 
clearer when explaining what Mr C needed to do if he called the number on the back of the 
card. However, the adviser also told Mr C he could check the direct line number online and 
Mr C was able to get through on that.
Mr C has raised various concerns with how the second adviser he spoke to dealt with the 
call. However, having listened to the call, Im satisfied that she acted professionally 
throughout. She clearly explained why she was asking further questions. I think it was 
reasonable for her to have put Mr C on hold while she sought further information in an effort 
to resolve things. 
I appreciate Mr C was reluctant to share information he considered personal with 
Nationwide. He was confident his payment was going to his intended recipient and was for 
legitimate reasons. However, Nationwide has an obligation to protect its customers from 
authorised push payment scams, which involve a consumer being tricked into making 
payments to a scammer. These types of scams are becoming increasingly common and 
more sophisticated. I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to have decided to place 
a block on Mr Cs account when he wouldnt answer her questions, given her concerns 
about the safety of his funds.
I understand the situation was frustrating for Mr C who spent over half an hour on the 
second call before the matter was resolved. However, if Mr C was ever to become a victim of 
potential fraud or a scam and Nationwide didnt take steps to prevent this, the consequences 
could be far worse for him. So, while I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr C, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide has acted fairly and in his best interests. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman