DRN-3128391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O and Ms O complain that U K Insurance Limited declined their claim in relation 
to their travel insurance policy. Reference to UKI includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont repeat them again here 
in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs O and Ms O have travel insurance as a benefit of a current 
account. In February 2020, they booked non-refundable flights for a trip with intended 
departure and return dates of 4 August 2020 and 19 August 2020 respectively. 
On 15 March 2020, the Foreign Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel to the intended destination. On 16 March 2020, the 
government of Mr and Mrs Os intended destination imposed a travel ban. The FCDO 
advice against all but essential travel and the destinations travel ban remained in place 
at the time of Mr and Mrs O and Ms Os planned departure.  
On 15 July 2020, Mr O cancelled the flights with the airline. He made a claim against his 
travel policy. UKI asked Mr O for written evidence from the airline about a refund before 
it considered settlement of the claim. It said that it would consider the claim when it had 
received the information it had requested.  
Mr and Mrs O and Ms O want UKI to settle their claim and pay them for the full cost of 
the flights, plus interest and compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that UKI had 
acted unfairly in declining the claim. That was because the airline had offered a voucher. 
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He responded at some length, which I wont set 
out here. Mr O said, in summary:
The investigators view flies in the face of settled law of frustration and the 
Competition and Markets Authoritys (CMAs) public position. 
The CMAs statement on coronavirus (Covid-19), consumer contracts, 
cancellation and refunds says that he is entitled to a cash refund. 
The terms of the voucher are restrictive. 
The voucher is inherently anti-competitive, restricts their options and binds them 
to an uncompetitive airline. 
A voucher with a number of restrictions doesnt amount to recoverable costs 
within the meaning of the policy. 
Mr O asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows: 
Part 1 - Covers For Your Trip
Cancelling Your Trip (up to the point of departure)
[]
You are covered for
We will pay up to £5,000 for each insured person for their portion of the trip costs if you 
have to cancel your trip, including:
[]
Commercially operated [] travel costs.
[]
Reasons for cancellation
[]
9. FCO travel advice All but essential travel': in the 28 days before your trip start date 
the Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your 
destination. The advice must have come into force after you opened your Nationwide 
FlexPlus current account, or booked your trip whichever is later.
[]
You are not covered for
We wont pay for:
[]
12. These specific exclusions (see page 18 for full explanations):
1 Recoverable costs.
Page 18 says:
Specific Exclusions
The exclusions listed below are shown in a shortened form when they appear in this policy. 
Please refer to the list below for detailed explanations.
1. Recoverable costs
Any costs that you can recover from elsewhere.
General Conditions
[]
Information to support your claim
 You must give us all the information, original documents and help that we need to process 
your claim. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding this complaint because I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I say that because:Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks it is willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions 
of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their claim falls 
under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy. If the event is covered in 
principle but is declined on the basis of an exclusion set out in the policy the onus 
shifts to the insurer to show how that exclusion applies.
Its common ground that there was an insured event here: the reason Mr O cancelled 
the trip was because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to the intended 
destination and that advice was in place 28 days before the planned departure date. 
In the airlines email of 28 September 2020 to Mr O it indicated that where customers 
dont want to travel or are prevented from travelling, it offers a voucher. The terms of 
the voucher arent clear from the email to Mr O. But it looks like a voucher is available. 
In those circumstances, I dont think that UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in asking 
Mr O for written evidence from the airline about any or no refund from the airline 
before it considers settlement of the claim. It said that it would consider the claim once 
it had received the information it requested. It is for the insured to provide UKI with all 
the information it needs to deal with the claim. 
The airlines website provides that where the original booking was before                     
3 March 2020 for travel due to have started by 28 February 2021 and to be completed 
by 31 August 2022  which is the case here  customers may claim a voucher to the 
value of their booking which can be used as payment or part payment for a future 
booking. The new trip booked with the voucher must be fully completed by                 
30 September 2023. 
In the particular circumstances here, I think that UKI could fairly decline the claim on 
the basis that the costs of the flights are recoverable. Ive noted what Mr O has said 
about the voucher, but I dont agree that the terms of the voucher are unduly 
restrictive. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O and Ms O  would prefer a cash refund, especially as 
future travel plans remain somewhat uncertain, but the policy doesnt provide cover 
where costs are recoverable elsewhere. I think that the voucher offered by the airline 
means that Mr and Mrs O and Ms Os costs are recoverable and that UKI is entitled to 
rely on the exclusion in the policy in relation to recoverable costs.  
The airline is a member of an alternative dispute resolution scheme. Information about 
that can be found here: https://www.caa.co.uk/passengers/resolving-travel-
problems/how-the-caa-can-help/alternative-dispute-resolution/. If Mr and Mrs O and 
Ms O remain concerned about the voucher or its terms, they may wish to take that 
forward with the relevant scheme.
The matters Mr O raises in relation to frustration of the contract relate to the contract 
with the airline, not the contract with UKI. In this decision, Im looking at whether UKI 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and 
reasonably. For the reasons Ive explained, I think it did. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs O and Ms Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O, Ms O and 
Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman