DRN-1101648
The complaint
Mr S complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed properly to investigate and 
correct faults in his central heating boiler when he called on it under his home emergency 
insurance policy, with the result that it became beyond economical repair (BER).
What happened
In December 2018, Mr Ss boiler stopped working, and he called on IPA under his home 
emergency policy. IPAs engineer found a fuse had blown. He investigated what was 
causing this and said it was a faulty fan, and he would order a replacement.
A few days later another IPA attended to fit the replacement fan. Mr S says initially he 
replaced the same fuse and the boiler worked. However, the engineer said he would replace 
the fan anyway as it had been ordered.
At the end of December 2018, the boiler failed again. Mr S says the engineer who came 
replaced the same fuse again. IPAs records say the engineer found the main cable to the 
boiler, the cable spur, had come loose and was dangling from the boiler. This was 
reconnected and the boiler worked again.
At the end of April 2019, the boiler failed once more. IPAs engineer found the wiring harness 
that runs from the printed circuit board (PCB) to the diverter valve, pump, and fan had burnt 
out on the PCB. His report says he strongly suspected this was due to the diverter valve or 
pump drawing too much power, which caused the wiring harness to burn out and melt the 
PCB connection. But it could possibly be down to a loose connection on the PCB.
Because of the number of parts which needed to be replaced, IPA said the boiler was BER, 
and so wouldnt assist further under Mr Ss policy. 
Mr S complained to IPA. He said IPAs engineers had failed to investigate the faults properly, 
and in particular why the same fuse kept blowing. If they had done so, he thought the boiler 
could have been repaired before it became BER. In support, he produced a report by an 
independent electrician, which was as follows:
As instructed by client an inspection has been carried out on circuit wiring supplying the 
heating boiler.
The circuit was found to be satisfactory condition and no loose connections were located, 
the tests carried out were insulation resistance, earth loop impedance and visual inspection 
of connections at the consumer unit and fused outlet supplying the boiler. 
There is however signs of arcing on secondary wiring in the boiler circuit board, the arcing 
looks as if it has been caused by the failure of one of the connectors on the circuit board.
IPA didnt accept his complaint. It didnt agree a replacement fan hadnt been needed, as the 
boiler worked for two weeks once it was replaced, before it failed because the power cable 
to the boiler became disconnected. IPA said the boiler then worked for four months before the wiring loom burnt out. Mr S had 
said he saw IPAs engineer taking out cables from the PCB in December 2018 to diagnose 
the problem then. But the engineer said this wouldnt have been required. The wire that was 
reconnected in December 2018 was different from the wiring that burnt out in April 2019. IPA 
didnt think the electricians report showed it was responsible for the boiler becoming BER, 
but it refunded the cost of the report.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that on 
the basis of the policy wording, IPA was entitled to declare the boiler BER and to decline 
further assistance under the policy.
He had spoken to the independent electrical engineer, who said a fault was discovered 
within the secondary wiring connecting the mains socket to the boiler. The secondary wire 
had burned the circuit board away. He stated the neutral wiring had evidence of arcing. No 
loose connections were identified to the mains wire.
He added that all he could do was comment on what he saw, which was that the terminals 
on the circuit board were burned. It was possible that things did work loose over time and the 
damage may also have occurred if the terminal wasn't tightened up correctly. However, he 
couldn't confirm this was due to an IPA engineer.
The investigator said:
the reports of IPAs engineers didnt suggest the issues that occurred were 
connected, or that the same issue reoccurred; and
the electrical engineer couldnt confirm the damage occurred due to the repairs by 
IPAs engineers. 
 
Having considered the information available, the investigator couldnt say that the work 
carried out by IPAs engineers was responsible for the failure of the boiler in April 2019. The 
work done in December 2019 was different from the fault that happened in April 2019. On 
the evidence available, he couldnt fairly conclude that IPAs engineers were responsible for 
the wiring harness burning out, or that the issue previously existed.
Mr S responded to say, in summary, that:
the investigator should have listened to all the calls he made to IPA which would 
have shown its engineers were continuing to change the same fuse without getting to 
the root of the problem;
how did the spur to the boiler become loose without being touched since the last visit 
from an IPA engineer;
although the investigator said the faults were unrelated, they were all electrical 
failures; and
he thought he and his family had been left in danger by IPAs engineers with a boiler 
that could have been set alight.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S believes strongly that what happened in April 2019 was the result of a fault which was 
present from early December 2018 onwards. He says that if IPAs engineers had done their job properly and followed the evidence of the same fuse repeatedly blowing, they would 
have discovered the fault and been able to repair it before the boiler reached the stage of 
being declared BER.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint I have to 
consider the evidence that is available to me. In doing so I note:
the fault the IPA engineer found on his visit in late December 2018 was a 
disconnected cable. This was different from the fault earlier that month. I accept that 
it was also different from the fault which appeared in April 2019  the burnt out wiring 
harness and melted PCB connection;
four months elapsed between the engineers visit in late December 2018 and the 
burnt out wiring harness in April 2019. During that time the boiler seems to have 
performed normally without any fuse blowing; and
the electrical engineer, whose evidence I accept as independent, was unable to 
conclude that IPAs engineers were responsible for the wiring harness burning out, or 
that the issue previously existed.
 
The different incidents that occurred may all have been electrical, but that doesnt 
necessarily mean they were related. Its not clear how the cable came to be loose, or why 
the fuse seemed to blow so often in December 2018, as I accept it did. But all in all Im not 
persuaded that anything IPAs engineers did or didnt do caused the failure that happened in 
April 2019.
IPA reimbursed the cost of Mr S obtaining the electrical engineers report, which I think was 
fair. However, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against Inter Partner 
Assistance SA.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman