DRN-1787980
The complaint
Miss R is complaining that she wasnt made aware that she was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for her 
son with a supplier that I will call E. Shes also unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel it. 
What happened
Miss R says she received a flyer from E advertising an online educational course. She was 
keen to arrange some additional tutoring for her son, so she contacted E to enquire about it. 
In July 2019 one of Es representatives visited Miss R at her home, following which she 
entered her son onto an online Maths and English course, which cost £5,232. She entered 
into a five-year finance agreement with 3J to pay for it.
Around two months later, Miss R tried to cancel the course, but she wasnt able to. Miss R 
complained that the course had been mis-sold to her. She said the salesman had assured 
her she could cancel the course at any time. She said this was important to her because her 
son was autistic and had ADHD so she needed the assurance that she could cancel the 
course if he didnt get on with it. She also complained she hadnt been told she was entering 
into a finance agreement.
E responded to say Miss R signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied she was 
reasonably aware she was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork she 
signed set out the terms and cancellation rights.
E subsequently went into administration, so Miss R referred her complaint to 3J as the 
finance provider. 3J says it understands E always aimed to do all it could to make clear what 
was being entered into when a family chooses to purchase a programme from them. It says 
Miss R signed the agreement which contained a section which set out she had 14 days to 
withdraw from the finance agreement. And it said the paperwork was emailed to her which 
also set out she had 14 days to withdraw from the agreement.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she was satisfied Miss R had been given 
misleading information about whether she could cancel the agreement or not. She said shed 
found Miss Rs testimony plausible and persuasive. She acknowledged the paperwork set 
out Miss R was entering into a finance agreement and what the terms of the contract were. 
But she didnt think Miss R was given an opportunity to review the information before she 
entered into the contract.
The investigator noted that the paperwork had an automatic signature. And she also noted 
the date stamp for the signatures showed they were all ticked within a couple of minutes. 
She thought this supported Miss Rs assertions that she electronically signed to take out the 
contract.
The investigator was satisfied Miss R had been misled into entering into the finance 
agreement. She was also persuaded the salesman had told her she could cancel the 
contract at any time. And she didnt think Miss R would have entered into the contract had 
she known it was to run for five years.
So the investigator thought 3J should cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to 
pay. She also didnt think Miss Rs son had ever got any real benefit from the course, so she 
thought 3J should refund what shed paid towards the finance agreement. She also said 3J 
should remove any adverse markers from her credit file.
3J didnt accept the investigators opinion. It didnt think it was fair to rely on one persons 
testimony. It said it was safer to refer to tangible, contemporaneous evidence from when 
Miss R entered into the agreement. It said the documentation Miss R signed clearly sets out 
the terms of the contracts. It said theres a general legal principle that when someone has 
signed a document they are taken to have read and understood it. It also said Miss R would 
have been told the documentation would be immediately available to her electronically.
3J sent the investigator a copy of the Customer Clarification & Satisfaction Form (CCSF) that 
Miss R hand signed. And it said this made it clear Miss R was taking out a finance 
agreement and what the cancellation rights were. So it thought Miss R would have known 
the terms of the finance. It said Miss R would have had an opportunity to read through the 
documentation before signing it and could have queried anything she didnt understand. It 
also said shed been given copies of the paperwork after she purchased the course. And it 
said she had 14 days to reconsider if she wanted to cancel it.
3J also said Miss R would have been shown an introductory video which explained she was 
entering into an interest free finance agreement to pay for the course. It maintained Miss R 
was given sufficient information that she was entering into a finance agreement and what her 
cancellation rights were.
As 3J didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Miss R paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Miss R entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when she was first approached by E. Essentially, this means 3J is 
responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Miss R. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Miss R is unhappy she wasnt allowed to cancel the course when she says it became 
apparent her son wasnt getting on with it. She says she thought she was paying a monthly 
subscription towards it and was told by the salesman she could cancel at any time. She says 
she was misled into entering into the course and the finance agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Miss R had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Miss R doesnt dispute the contract says this, but 
she says she was told she could cancel it at any time and thought she was taking out a monthly subscription. She says she wouldnt have entered into the course had she known 
shed have to continue to pay for it for five years. She also says she didnt know she was 
entering into a finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to think about is whether 
the course and finance agreement were misrepresented to her.
I note 3J say the primary focus should be on the paperwork Miss R signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans responsibilities 
to provide clear information to enable Miss R to make an informed choice before she agreed 
to enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description of the conversations that were had before the contract started.
In arranging the loan between Miss R and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But, I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee; 
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable 
and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must: (2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Miss R purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Miss Rs assumptions about how she was going to be paying 
for it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Miss R.
 
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access to Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 
days have passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons. So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering 
either face to face or online tuition. 
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Miss Rs testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what shes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product she ultimately bought.
Weve spoken to Miss R to understand why she enquired about the course in the first place. 
I understand Miss Rs son had previously had an educational support service he didnt get on with, so Miss R cancelled it and was looking for a different option. Given his medical 
conditions and his previous experience of tutoring, I think Miss R would have wanted a high 
degree of flexibility to cancel the course if her son didnt get on with it. And Im persuaded by 
what shes told us and of what we know about how E sold this product that its likely she was 
given assurances she could cancel the course. 
Ive considered 3Js comments that Miss R signed the agreement. But I think the evidence 
here supports Miss Rs assertions she was only asked to tick a box on a tablet. I can see 
Miss R electronically signed the finance agreement, the enrolment application, the terms and 
conditions and the affordability declaration. But I can also see that she signed them all within 
two minutes. I dont think its likely she could have signed them all separately in such a short 
time span. So I think its most likely she ticked separate boxes to electronically sign the 
documents. And Im not persuaded she would have been given a copy of the agreement to 
review before she signed them.
Ive thought about 3Js comments that Miss R hand signed the CCSF. But I have also 
considered Miss Rs comments about her situation at the time that she was struggling with 
looking after her two children at the same time as signing the documentation. Im not 
persuaded she was able to absorb and understand the content of the form  particularly that 
she was entering into a separate finance agreement and the cancellation rights. I also think it 
was fair for her to rely primarily on the information and assurances she was given by the 
salesman. So I dont think her signing this form is enough for me to say she was given clear 
information by Es salesman or to disregard what I think he was likely to have told Miss R.
I note 3J has said Miss R was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement before 
she ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I 
dont disagree with 3J that it was Miss Rs responsibility to understand what she was 
entering into. But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty 
to ensure she had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and 
about the finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before she agreed to 
enter into the course and finance agreement.
Its also worth noting that the FCA has written to credit brokers outlining some key risks it 
believes they should consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering credit 
agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. In particular it referenced brokers which sell products in the home as 
potentially presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially if sales took place without 
appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis.
While no specific firms were mentioned in the FCAs letter, Im mindful of the fact that in 
Miss Rs case E was brokering a credit agreement with a third-party finance provider in order 
to sell her a product, in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially 
presenting a higher risk of consumer harm including mis-selling.
Miss R has said throughout she thought she was taking out a monthly subscription to a 
tutoring service that she was told she could cancel at any time. Given what I know about 
what Miss R wanted to use the training for, Im not persuaded she would have entered into 
the course and agreement if shed know it was a five-year commitment. I think Miss R has 
been consistent in what shes told us about what happened. And, Ive ultimately found her 
testimony to be plausible and persuasive.
Ive seen some of the training material provided by E to its salespeople, which I understand 
was current at the point Miss R entered into the finance agreement. When covering how to 
explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan anywhere in these training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems to have been on setting an affordable 
monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid 
making the arrangement sound like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Miss R as clearly as he should have done. And I think Miss R has lost out as a result of 
whats happened.
Ive thought about whether Miss Rs son derived any material benefit from the course, but I 
dont think he did. Miss R sought to cancel the course within two months of her enrolling her 
son on it because he didnt get on with it. And I dont think he could have gained any material 
benefit from it in that time.
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance agreement and refunds the payments Miss R 
has made. As I dont think Miss R would have entered into this finance agreement had she 
been given sufficient information at the outset, I dont think its fair that it continues to appear 
on her credit file. So I think 3J should remove any record of the agreement from Miss Rs 
credit file.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require 3J Finance Limited to do the following:
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Remove any record of the agreement from Miss Rs credit file; 
3. Arrange to collect any equipment provided to Miss R as part of the course contract at no 
expense to Miss R; and
4. Refund any payments Miss R has made towards the finance agreement and course 
costs. It should also pay 8% simple interest on any payment she made from the date she 
paid it until the date she gets it back. If 3J thinks that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss R how much its 
taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman