DRN-2572772
The complaint
Mr A and Miss G complain that AWP P&C SA trading as Allianz Global Assistance (Allianz) 
acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining their claim under a travel insurance policy. 
They want the claim paid.
What happened
Miss G took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Allianz on 21 January 2020 to cover 
herself and Mr A for a trip abroad in January and early February 2020. While Mr A and 
Miss G were on the trip, Covid-19 began to spread. Mr A contacted a GP in the UK and said 
they were advised to return home as soon as possible. 
Mr A and Miss G said that they contacted Allianz while abroad and were told to make their 
own arrangements and the claim would be considered on their return if requested. 
Mr A and Miss G paid money to get home and claimed for the costs and the curtailment of 
their holiday. The claim was declined.
Mr A and Miss G complained. Allianz said that that the terms and conditions of the policy 
only covered Mr A and Miss G curtailing their trip if they were unwell, and not in the 
circumstances in which they chose to go home.
Mr A and Miss G complained to us, saying that the policy should cover them in the 
circumstances as a doctor recommended that they went go home in writing and there was 
no evidence that they werent unwell. The investigators view was that Allianz wasnt at fault. 
She said the policy didnt cover the claim as neither Mr A or Miss G had been unwell, and 
the reason they returned home as recorded by the GP was due to fear of illness.
Mr A and Miss G disagreed. They said the policy should cover them as it didnt just deal with 
medical matters and Allianz told them to book flights home. They felt Allianz misled them into 
believing the claim would be paid. The investigator explained that the policy didnt cover 
every possible event and claims for curtailment had to meet the terms of the policy. She 
pointed out that Allianz hadnt promised to pay if Mr A and Miss G chose to return early.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Allianz, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Allianz has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Insurers set out what events they will and wont cover in the terms and conditions of the 
policy. They are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for a premium) but 
the policy does need to make the position clear to the policyholder. A policy may not cover 
every single eventuality. 
In Mr A and Miss Gs case, their policy says it covered cutting the trip short in limited 
circumstances, such as death, serious injury or illness, or being in hospital. It specifically 
says that there is no cover if Allianz doesnt agree to the trip being cut short or where theres 
no medical certificate from a treating doctor saying they needed to come home. Lack of 
sanitiser, concerns about having to quarantine or impact on work are not events covered by 
the policy to allow a curtailment claim. Fear of catching Covid-19 is not the same as being 
seriously unwell, particularly as the phrase used in the policy is serious illness of you.
Mr A and Miss G said that Allianz couldnt prove that they werent unwell. But the position is 
that the policyholder must prove that their claim is covered; the insurer needs to prove it if it 
argues an exclusion applied. Mr A and Miss G in my view didnt show that their claim was 
covered because they have not shown that the terms and conditions of the policy covered 
their situation. 
I note that the written recommendation from the doctor notes that Mr A and Miss G were well 
while abroad but they wished to return home early. This was over a month before a 
pandemic was declared, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office changed its guidance and 
British nationals were advised by the UK government to return home. The GP didnt 
recommend return on medical grounds due to their health; he simply recorded their wish to 
return home to minimise disruption to their work and risk of exposure to coronavirus and 
agreed to write a letter for an insurance claim. While the GP understood Mr A and Miss Gs 
wish to return home, there was no recommendation from the treating doctor as Mr A and 
Miss G were well and not receiving treatment.
I considered the email exchanges between Miss G and Allianz before they cut short their 
trip. The emails show that Allianz did not agree to the trip being cut short. Miss G was told if 
she wanted to book flights home, it was up to her and she could make a claim. No guarantee 
of success was given.
I thought about whether it was fair and reasonable for Allianz to decline the claim in the 
circumstances. I think that it was. The policy set out what was covered, particularly in 
relation to curtailment claims, and Mr A and Miss G most likely chose to return home early 
because they were concerned about Covid-19 and quarantine requirements, not because 
they were seriously unwell.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss G to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 March 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman