DRN-4221551
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money she lost as the result of an 
investment scam.
What happened
Ms R has explained that in December 2021 she invested £250 with a company Ill call G. 
She left the funds in the account to gain interest but wasnt interested in investing any 
further. Around May 2022, a representative of G called her to close the account but she was 
asked to make payments in order to withdraw the profits shed earned. 
Ms R was instructed by Gs representative to open accounts with; a payment service 
provider Ill call W and a crypto exchange provider Ill call B. Ms R sent the following 
payments from her Lloyds current account to her account with W. 
Transaction 
number DateMethod of 
payment Payee Amount (£)Running 
total
1 26 May 2022 Debit card W £2,256.75 £2,256.75
2 26 May 2022 Debit card W £2,256.75 £4,513.50
                                                                                                                     
Total £4,513.50 £4,513.50
When Ms R subsequently got in touch with Lloyds to explain shed been scammed, Lloyds 
didnt reimburse her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Ms R referred her complaint about 
Lloyds to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Ms R authorised the scam payments in question here. She was 
tricked by the scammers into instructing Lloyds to make the payments. So although Ms R 
didnt intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and 
the terms and conditions of her account, Ms R is presumed liable for her loss in the first 
instance. 
Ms R didnt pay the scammers directly and instead sent the payments to her own account 
with W. From there, she sent the payments to B. So, I dont think the payee alone ought to 
have caused particular concern to Lloyds. 
That said, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In terms of prevention, given the size of the scam payments, Im not persuaded there would 
have been anything sufficiently suspicious about these transactions for Lloyds to have been 
obliged to block the payments pending enquiries with Ms R before letting them through. 
The payments were being made to her own account with W and when compared to her 
previous account spend, they didnt appear to be all that unusual. For example, on 4 May 
2022, Ms R sent an undisputed payment of £3,319.64. The scam payments didnt drain Ms 
Rs account balance which could be indicative of a scam. Ms R also commonly sent 
payments to accounts in her name. 
And so, I dont think Lloyds missed an opportunity to prevent any of Ms Rs losses. 
I recognise Ms R feels Lloyds could have done more to recover the payments once they had 
been sent and feels it acted too slowly. But even if Lloyds had acted quicker, Ms Rs 
payments had already left her account with W and were sent to her account with B. So there 
wouldnt have been anything for Lloyds to have recovered even if it had acted quicker.
 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Ms Rs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman