DRN-3683874
The complaint
Mr J complains he was the victim of an investment scam and that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
didnt do enough to prevent his loss to recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr J complains he was the victim of a scam involving the purchase of cryptocurrency. 
Between 13 and 27 November 2020 he made online transfers and card payments to two 
cryptocurrency exchange companies Ill refer to as B and C. Mr J had come into contact 
with a broker online who advised him to create accounts with B and C, purchase 
cryptocurrency, and then send it to the broker to fund his investment.  
After hed made the first payment, Mr J was shown his profit on the screen and advised to 
invest more money. When he eventually tried to withdraw his money he was told he couldnt 
access the funds unless he invested more.
When Mr J realised hed been the victim of a scam, he asked Barclays to raise a chargeback 
claim under VISAs chargeback scheme. Barclays accepted hed been the victim of a scam 
but it explained the claim was defended on the basis the account had been credited and the 
funds were then withdrawn, therefore the merchant had provided the service it was required 
to provide. In relation to the push payments, Barclays said it also tried to recall the money 
from the account, but the funds had been withdrawn almost immediately. 
Mr J complained to Barclays but it maintained there was nothing it could do to refund the 
money. But it did accept it had handled the complaint poorly, for which it offered him £100 
compensation and an apology for the inconvenience this had caused.
Mr J complained to this service and our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in 
part. She explained the CRM Code wouldnt apply to the payments as they were made to an 
account in Mr Js name. And she didnt think any of the payments Mr J had made between 
13 and 25 November 2020 were unusual, so she didnt think B needed to refund them. 
However, our investigator did think the last card payment of £3,868.31 was unusual as it 
represented an increase in spending to crypto merchants, bringing the total in one day to 
over £10,000. She thought that if Barclays had contacted Mr J to discuss the nature of the 
payments, its likely he wouldve shared details about the reason for the payment and as 
there was information in the public domain about the very high risks associated with crypto 
trading, its likely he wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment.
Our investigator recommended Barclays should refund the last card payment of £3,868.31, 
less 25% to reflect the fact he didnt conduct any independent research into the broker 
before agreeing to pay such a significant amount of money. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
says Barclays led him to believe it would help him get a refund, but he was left on hold for 
hours before eventually being told he would need evidence. He also experienced a lot of 
stress, only to be told there was nothing Barclays could do to refund the money hed lost.
Not only was Mr J unhappy with the time it took Barclays to reach a decision, he doesnt 
accept the decision is correct, arguing all the payments were made within two to three weeks 
and were unusual for his account.
Barclays has explained the £7,000 was transferred online and the payment of £3868.31 was 
authorised as a debit card transaction. It accepts the total amount authorised on 27 
November was over £10,000, but at the time of the final transaction, the £7,000 had been 
returned to the account, meaning the amount debited at that point stood at zero. However, it 
has also indicated it would accept our investigators recommendation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a 
dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two 
presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited 
grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card 
issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr J).
Barclays has said the chargeback was unsuccessful because B and C had provided the 
service theyd offered, and Im satisfied thats fair. As this was an investment trading dispute, 
the only applicable misrepresentation option would have been if B and C didnt fulfil their 
obligation to convert the money into crypto and send it on as requested.
Should Barclays refund any money?
Although Mr J didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Barclays is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make. But, where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen the payments 
went to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, Barclays has an obligation 
to intervene where there is a fraud or scam and these payments were part of a wider scam. 
In these circumstances, what we would expect Barclays to have done to protect Mr J is 
restricted to triggers, meaning I need to consider whether the transactions were so unusual 
that Barclays ought to have intervened to warn Mr J when he tried to make the payments. 
Barclays, along with other payment services providers, should be monitoring accounts and 
be on the lookout for unusual transactions or other signs of fraud. Barclays has confirmed 
the payments didnt flag as suspicious on its system. Ive considered the nature of the 
payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr J 
normally ran his account and I agree with our investigator that the payments he made 
between 13 and 25 November were not unusual because they were within the usual 
spending for the account. I also agree that the payment of £7,000 on 27 November 2020 was not unusual as this was an established beneficiary and Mr J had made similar payments 
of £5256 and £4600 in August and September 2020 (albeit not to the same beneficiary).
Having considered the circumstances of the payment of £3868.31, I accept that at the time it 
was authorised, the £7,000 transfer Mr J had made earlier that day had been returned to the 
account. But that doesnt alter the fact that at the time the later payment was authorised, the 
total amount debited from the account that day exceeded £10,000 and that this was 
significantly higher than Mr Js usual daily spending. I note one payment was an online 
transfer and the other was made using a debit card but that doesnt affect the total spending 
for the day and I think Barclays should have contacted Mr J to make some enquiries.
I think that, had Barclays contacted Mr J and asked him some questions about the 
transactions, he would probably have told it there was a third party involved and this would 
most likely have led him to undertake some enquiries about the broker. I think if he had, its 
likely he would have discovered the broker wasnt authorised by the FCA as well as other 
information concerning the risks associated with such investments and that this mightve 
caused him to think twice about going ahead with the transfer. So, I think Barclays should 
refund the final payment.
In deciding whether there should be a reduction to the amount Barclays should refund, I 
dont think the broker made any particularly implausible promises which wouldve given a 
reasonable person cause for concern.  But Ive considered the fact the scam wasnt 
particularly complex or sophisticated and that Mr J failed to do any due diligence on the 
broker. Consequently, I agree with our investigator that the refund should be reduced by 
25% to reflect contributory negligence.
The refund should include a payment of 8% simple interest on the refunded payments from 
the date they were paid until the date they are refunded. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. My decision is that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should:
 Refund Mr J the £3868.31 payment less 25% for contributory negligence.
  Pay 8% simple interest a year on the refund, from the time of the payment until the time it 
is refunded 
HM Revenue & Customs may require Barclays to deduct tax from the interest it pays Mr J. If 
it does, and if Mr J requests it, Barclays should provide him with a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off so that he may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman