DRN-3907443
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) have unfairly declined an accidental 
damage claim made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr M holds his home insurance with Ageas. This policy includes cover for accidental 
damage. He sought to make a claim for accidental damage to his mattress.
Mr M says he has lain plywood over his slatted bed for many years. He says this has 
extended the lifespan of his mattresses. Alongside this he flips his mattresses every 
six months.
When flipping his mattress, he says it got caught on a screw exposed from the 
plywood. He says this screw wouldve worked itself loose over many years. And the 
mattress was damaged as a result. 
Mr M made a claim under his Ageas policy. It considered the claim and declined it, 
saying the damage was excluded as it had occurred gradually over time and wasnt a 
one-off incident. It quoted the policy exclusion which says:
We do not cover any loss or damage that happens gradually over a period of 
time, such as rust, corrosion, fading and shrinkage.
The complaint was brought to this Service and considered by one of our Investigators 
who upheld the complaint. She said the onus in this case was on Ageas to show it 
could fairly apply the exclusion, and here she felt Ageas had established the screw 
had come loose over time, not that the damage to the mattress had happened 
gradually. So, she said Ageas should settle the claim.
Mr M agreed, responding to say Ageas had never seen the damage and relied on the 
exclusion without inspection. Ageas hasnt replied.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint, and largely for the reasons already given by 
our Investigator. Ill explain why.
Accidental damage isnt defined within Mr Ms policy. As a result, I would consider 
the ordinary, everyday meaning of the phrase. So here, I will consider if the damage 
in question is unforeseen and unintentional.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ms mattress was damaged by a screw that had come loose 
over time. It seems clear to me this was unintentional, and unforeseen. And Ive been 
given nothing from Ageas to suggest otherwise.
Ageas has sought to rely on a general policy exclusion (listed above). The onus sits 
with Ageas as the insurer to show the damage was most likely caught by this 
exclusion. So, Ive thought about the evidence and argument Ageas has put forward.
Ageas hasnt provided this Service with any photos or review of the claim beyond its 
own commentary following a call with Mr M. It says the screw had come loose 
gradually over time as a result the damage must be gradual. But I disagree with that 
reasoning as there were multiple ways this couldve happened. I accept Ageas 
version of events as a possibility, as is the possibility that the mattress was damaged 
as an unforeseen and unintentional event immediately after Mr M flipped it. Simply, 
there are multiple scenarios that couldve occurred here that may or may not mean 
the damage was incurred over time  and it was for Ageas to evidence this given the 
onus sits with it to prove the exclusion applies.
But without any sort of documentary or expert evidence supporting Ageas position, 
nor any arguments or evidence to the contrary following our Investigators view, Im 
left unpersuaded by Ageas position. And Im not satisfied it has shown it was most 
likely that the mattress itself was damaged gradually and wasnt an unintentional, and 
unforeseen event.
As a result, Im satisfied Ageas should settle the claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms. I understand Ageas decline wouldve been disappointing for Mr M, and 
while I consider Ageas to have made mistakes in handling this claim by not carrying 
out further investigations, Im not persuaded to make an award in this instance in light 
of the more limited impact of the claim.
My final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited must settle Mr Ms claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman