DRN-2186833
The complaint
Mrs M complains that CIS General Insurance Limited settled a third party claim after she 
was involved in a road traffic accident.
What happened
Mrs M had a motor insurance policy with CIS. In September 2019, she was involved in a 
road traffic accident, which she reported to CIS the next day. 
The accident caused minor damage to Mrs Ms car. But CIS later received a claim from the 
other drivers insurer, whose car was written off.
When Mrs M reported the accident, CIS promised to send her some claim documents  so 
that she could tell them in more detail what had happened. Mrs M says he didnt receive 
those documents until she chased CIS six days later.
In October 2019, Mrs M bought a new car and took out a policy with a different insurer. 
Several days after she bought the policy, the insurer informed Mrs M that they were 
increasing her premium because shed had the accident in September and hadnt given 
them accurate details about that.
In early November 2019, CIS told Mrs M that they were settling the third party claim on a 
without prejudice basis.
Mrs M made a complaint to CIS about them not sending the claim documents to her when 
theyd first promised to do so. They gave a final response to that complaint on 28 October 
2019, saying they were glad to have been able to resolve the issue for her. They appear to 
have re-sent the documents on the day Mrs M contacted them again.
Mrs M made a further complaint to CIS about their settling the third party claim, which she 
said caused the increase in her premiums with her new insurer. She said the claim shouldnt 
have been settled because she wasnt at fault in the accident and hadnt agreed the claim 
could be settled. And she thinks CIS didnt take her version of events properly into account.
CIS said theyd considered the third partys account - and Mrs Ms. And theyd decided to 
settle because they believed it was likely Mrs M was at fault. They told Mrs M theyd settle 
on a without prejudice basis  which left Mrs M free to pursue her own action if she wished.
Mrs M wasnt happy with CISs response and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think CIS had done anything wrong. 
Mrs M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She says in making 
their decision about the third party claim, CIS discriminated against her on the basis of her 
ethnicity. Mrs M has lived in England for a number of years but was born in a different 
country.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say first of all that Mrs M wanted to complain to us about the issues covered by both 
her complaints to CIS. 
We told her we couldnt look into the first complaint  about CISs alleged failure to send 
Mrs M the documents they promised when she first reported the accident. This is because 
she brought that to us more than six months after she received CISs final response to that 
complaint. 
Weve explained that the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution (DISP) rules, 
which govern our service, dont allow us to look into complaints brought to us more than six 
months after a businesss final response to a complaint. 
Mrs Ms complaint was brought to us more than six months after CISs final response to her 
first complaint to them. CIS dont consent to our looking into it out of time. And there are no 
exceptional circumstances which might allow us to look into it despite it being brought to us 
out of time.
So, we cant look into that aspect of Mrs Ms complaint and I cant deal with it here. In case 
its any consolation to Mrs M, I dont think we could have upheld that complaint had we been 
able to look into it. CIS have provided evidence to show they did send the documents on the 
day Mrs M reported the accident. So, unless an investigation had found further evidence, it 
appears that whilst Mrs M may not have received the documents, I cant see any reason to 
believe that was CISs fault.
As for the second complaint, CIS recorded the accident on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database on the day Mrs M reported it to them. They were entitled  if not 
obliged - to do that. And theres no surprise that the second insurer increased Mrs Ms 
premiums when they became aware of the incident.
Mrs M says she wasnt at fault for the accident and she didnt agree that CIS could settle the 
third party claim.
Mrs Ms policy is clear that CIS will determine how to settle any third party claims, whether or 
not the policyholder agrees. It says:
We are entitled under this policy to; Take over and conduct the defence and 
settlement of any claim in your name or in the name of any other person insured by 
your policy. (page 27)
This is a standard term in car insurance policies. Its clearly explained. And it isnt unfair to 
the customer. In fact, without it, its arguable that many claims  where the drivers dispute 
who was at fault  would have to be resolved by the courts, at some cost and with no little 
delay.
There is of course, something of a safeguard for the policyholder because the insurer who 
admits their customer was at fault has to pay to settle the claim. So, its not in the insurers 
own interests to settle claims where they believe they can reasonably show their customer 
wasnt at fault.
Its not for me to determine who was at fault in this accident. Our role is simply to decide 
whether CIS acted reasonably and fairly in the way they made their decision to settle the 
third party claim. In any case like this, wed want to see that the insurer had taken all the available evidence 
and information into account  and that theyd carefully considered all versions of the events, 
including their own policyholders. Wed also look at whether the decision about settlement 
was then made reasonably and logically based on that evidence and information.
In this case, Mrs M was pulling out and turning left on to a main road from a car park. She 
says the car approaching on her right stopped and signalled that she could move out. She 
says when she did so, her car was hit by a second car which was in the process of 
overtaking the stopped vehicle on a one-lane carriageway.
I can see CIS have considered Mrs Ms account of what happened  asking her to provide 
an explanation and a diagram - and theyve considered it along with the third partys account 
and other evidence about the layout of the road in question.
The third party says the road is a two-lane carriageway at the point Mrs M was emerging 
onto it. And they were proceeding in the outside lane, unobstructed by the stopped vehicle. 
They say Mrs M pulled into their path too late for them to stop.
I can see that CIS checked Google maps to determine whether the road is one or two lanes 
at the relevant point. Ive checked Google maps myself. At the very instant Google maps 
took their image, two cars are proceeding along the road side by side  in two separate 
lanes - at the very point where Mrs M emerged from the car park.
So, I can see from the evidence CIS have provided that they asked the third party insurer for 
evidence and information from the other driver. They also asked Mrs M for any evidence and 
information she had. And theyve properly checked the layout of the road. 
In other words, Im persuaded theyve carried out sufficient investigations to come to a 
conclusion about the third party claim. And their conclusion is reasonably, logically and fairly 
based on the evidence they have.
Mrs M says she feels CIS came to the decision they did as a result of discrimination  and 
because she wasnt born in Britain. I can understand why Mrs M feels this way but having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think CIS has done so. Nor do I think CIS has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. I hope that it helps Mrs M to know that someone impartial and independent 
has looked into their concerns.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman