DRN-1086181
 
The complaint
Miss S says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) gave her loans she couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
 This complaint is about two loans that Lending Stream provided to Miss S - heres a table 
setting out details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest Repayment
1 21.5.2018 outstanding 6 £200 £40
2 23.7.2018 outstanding 6 £400 £139.30
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint and thought the loans werent unfairly 
provided.
Miss S disagreed. She mainly says that Lending Stream couldve clearly seen that she had 
defaults and other payday loans - so it acted irresponsibly when it provided these loans to 
her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint. 
Before lending to Miss S, Lending Stream asked Miss S for information about her financial 
situation, such as her monthly income and her outgoings, and it carried out some credit 
checks. Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Lending Stream to 
lend to Miss S.
loan 1
When Miss S took out her first loan I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the 
information Miss S provided and what it had discovered about her financial situation from its 
own checks. 
It looked like Miss S was well able to afford this borrowing as shed said her monthly income 
was around £1,650 and even allowing for what she was spending on other credit expenses, 
this left Miss S with over £1000 for the month. 
To give Miss S a safety margin in terms of her borrowing Lending Stream assumed she 
could have less disposable income than shed said. And even on the adjusted figures that 
Lending Stream worked on, the repayments on loan 1 shouldve been comfortably affordable 
for her.   
At this early stage, Miss S didnt have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Lending Stream to any underlying money problems, and I cant see that there was anything 
in the information she provided or the information Lending Stream had gathered, which 
meant that Lending Stream shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her financial 
situation or do more to verify the information Miss S had declared. 
So I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Around two months later, and while Miss S was still paying for loan 1, Lending Stream gave 
her another loan - and provided her with twice the amount shed borrowed on loan 1. 
Miss S says that the credit checks Lending Stream did shouldve shown the full extent of her 
other debt and so it shouldve realised that she was struggling with debt. 
But I havent seen enough to make me think that the information Lending Stream had 
showed that providing loan 2 to her was unfair. 
I appreciate Miss S was paying for other debt elsewhere, including other loans with other 
lenders. But I can also see that, on top of the amount Miss S declared for her outgoing 
monthly financial commitments, including what she was spending on other credit, Lending 
Stream boosted this figure by an amount that doesnt seem unreasonable to me to cover all 
her other credit commitments and made allowance for this when looking at affordability 
overall. 
Taking all this into account, it looks to me like the monthly repayments she had to make on 
loan 2 shouldve still been affordable for her. 
And although she later had problems paying for loan 1, at the time she took out loan 2, her 
repayments were up to date  so there wasnt anything in her borrowing history with Lending 
Stream to lead it to think that she might be having serious money problems or that she would 
find it difficult to make the repayments she had signed up to. 
And I cant see that Miss S gave Lending Stream any indication that her borrowing 
elsewhere was at the stage where it was causing her serious money problems during her 
application for loan 2.  Im sorry that Miss S found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Lending Stream obtained. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Miss S said in response to 
our adjudicators assessment and I've looked at the credit information shes sent us. But in 
order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Miss S lost out as a result of 
something that Lending Stream did wrong. And I dont think thats the case. I say this 
because I think Lending Stream did carry out proportionate checks, and looking at what it 
knew about her circumstances, I havent seen enough to show that it shouldve realised that 
these loans were likely to be unsustainably affordable for her.
So overall, I dont find that Lending Stream acted unfairly when it provided these loans to 
Miss S. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss S. But I hope my explanations help her understand why Ive 
reached my decision. 
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman