DRN-2642041
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not raise a chargeback claim on her behalf 
or help her reclaim payments made for a vehicle.  
What happened
Ms G made two payments totalling £2,600 to purchase a vehicle in August 2018. Around a 
month after she purchased the vehicle it was found to be faulty, so she contacted Barclays 
to initiate a chargeback to receive her money back for the vehicle.
Barclays said they were unable to raise a chargeback as the vehicle was paid for via a bill 
payment and not through using her debit card. Ms G complained to Barclays in 2018 as she 
said she used PINsentry method to authorise the payment and felt Barclays werent helping 
her retrieve her money for the faulty vehicle.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint as they said due to the method that Ms G paid for the 
vehicle they were unable to raise a chargeback. They advised her to contact the seller 
directly. They said that their payments processor Visa set out which type of transactions 
would be eligible for a chargeback claim and a bill payment is not one of these. They 
referred her to Visa for the type of transactions they would be able to process a chargeback 
for. Barclays said if Ms G was unsuccessful in coming to an arrangement with the seller then 
she may be able to take the seller to a small claims court. 
Ms G brought a further complaint to Barclays in 2020 where she said she had spoken to 
Citizens Advice Bureau on a different matter but during the course of the conversation found 
out that banks have a service called payment recall. She said she was never made aware 
that the payment couldve been recalled and she wasnt made aware of this option when she 
tried to raise a dispute originally. Ms G also made complaints about how Barclays handled 
her original complaint in 2018. She said she made a number of phone calls to Barclays and 
asked for transcripts of the calls. 
Barclays didnt uphold this complaint either. They explained that as she received the vehicle 
she wouldnt have been able to use the payment recall option regardless of whether the 
vehicle was faulty or not. Barclays said due to the length of time that passed they no longer 
had access to the calls she made so they were unable to provide transcripts for them. Ms G 
tried to raise further complaints with Barclays but they related to points already addressed in 
previous complaints so they advised her that she could bring her complaint to our service.
Ms G brought her complaint to our service but our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. 
She said that Barclays didnt following their standard operating procedure as they didnt raise 
a chargeback. The investigator said that the payment made online was a bill payment/faster 
payment and not a Visa purchase and as such wouldnt have been eligible for a chargeback. 
The investigator explained that as she received the vehicle then Barclays couldnt have 
attempted a payment recall even if she knew about this method at the time.
Ms G asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She raised a number of points for 
consideration including complaint handling issues, her observations on the chargeback 
terms and conditions for Visa. She also provided details from the Information Commissioners 
Office and detailed different methods which are eligible for chargeback and said that 
Barclays didnt do more to help with her recover the funds. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by saying that Ms G has raised a number of points during us looking into this 
complaint that werent a part of the original complaint she brought to us such as what the 
Information Commissioner Office told her. Our investigator has explained that Ms G will need 
to raise those issues separately. Ill just be focusing on the original complaint she referred to 
us here.
Ms G has made a number of points to both Barclays and this service and Ive considered 
and read everything shes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and 
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of her complaint in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable here.
While Ms G has a Barclays Visa debit card, not every banking transaction is made through 
Visa or with a debit card. So a chargeback cant be initiated on every type of transaction. 
There are certain types of transactions which Visa has no interaction with. These include - 
but are not limited to payments such as direct debits, standing orders, bill payments/faster 
payments. 
Ive looked at Ms Gs bank statement to see how the vehicle was paid for. Her bank 
statements clearly show that the two payments Ms G made totalling £2,600 for the vehicle 
were made via bill payments. The bill payment uses a faster payments method to ensure 
the payment reaches the recipient in a timely manner (often within two hours). A bill payment 
is not a method of payment that Ms G can initiate a chargeback on.
Ms G says she made the payment with her Visa debit card and I can understand why she 
thinks she made the payment with her Barclays Visa debit card. But, in reality the Visa debit 
card itself wasnt used to make the payment as she used internet banking to process the two 
payments for the vehicle via a bill payment and not her Visa debit card. As a result she 
wasnt eligible to initiate a chargeback on the purchase due to bill payments not being 
eligible for the chargeback scheme. Ive looked at the sections of the Visa chargeback terms 
and conditions which Ms Gs highlighted but these dont apply here due to her not using the 
Visa debit card for the method of payment she used.
While Ms G says she used PINsentry which she said meant her debit card was used for the 
purchase, PINsentry is a way of authenticating that Ms G is the account holder entitled to 
make payments from her account and this is not evidence that her Visa card was used for 
the two transactions.
I could understand how Ms G may be frustrated by Barclays referring her to Visa for the 
types of transactions which are covered under chargeback. But Im satisfied they did this as 
a chargeback cant be made for bill payments/faster payment transactions and they only 
referred her to Visa after Ms G asked them what types of transactions could be considered 
for chargeback.
Ive thought about what Ms G said about how the bank never offered a payment recall. I 
can understand why Barclays didnt offer this solution. I say this as Barclays explained that 
because she received the vehicle they would be unable to process a payment recall even if the vehicle was faulty. So if Barclays highlighted a payment recall as an option to Ms G at 
the time she contacted them this would have made no difference to her trying to reclaim the 
money she spent on the vehicle as she wouldnt be eligible for this.
In regards to Ms Gs comments about Barclays not doing more to help her reclaim her funds, 
Im not persuaded that theres much more they couldve done here as they were unable to 
initiate a chargeback, or recall the two payments where she received the vehicle, regardless 
of if it later became faulty. Barclays also advised her to speak to the seller and if she couldnt 
come to an arrangement with the seller then she could try taking the seller to a small claims 
court. 
While I realise that Ms G is unhappy with the service that Barclays provided here and how 
theyve handled the dispute she raised, I think theyve dealt with this much as Id expect. 
Theyve explained the situation to her and provided relevant information to her. Thats not 
led to the outcome that Ms G wants here  but that doesnt mean that Barclays has done 
anything wrong when looking at this impartially.
In order to uphold a complaint against Barclays here, I would need to see evidence that they 
have made an error. Im satisfied for the reasons Ive already given that Barclays havent 
made an error by not initiating a chargeback or attempting to recall the payment. So it 
follows I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman