DRN-3178425
The complaint
Mr C complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down his claim or his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was at work and went to leave in his pickup, but it wouldnt start. He therefore called a 
manufacturing garage to investigate why his pickup wasnt starting. He was told there was a 
pressure issue which would need investigating further. Upon further investigation the 
manufacturing garage said the fuel tank on Mr Cs pickup also contained AdBlue, and this 
had caused damage to his engine. It said someone must have poured it into the fuel tank. 
The manufacturing garage said Mr Cs warranty wouldnt cover the damage, so Mr C 
claimed on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. Haven reviewed the claim and asked Mr 
C how AdBlue had come to be in his pickups fuel tank. Mr C said he didnt know but said the 
garage told him someone must have put it in there. 
Haven reviewed the claim and turned it down. It said AdBlue could have only been added to 
Mr Cs fuel tank if hed left his pickup unlocked. Mr C was adamant he hadnt left his pickup 
unlocked and said someone must have broken into it. He appointed an engineer to inspect it 
for him and sent the engineers report to Haven. 
Haven reviewed the claim again and said it had now found damage to the fuel cap which 
meant it wouldnt lock properly. Haven said this damage wasnt there when it originally 
inspected Mr Cs pickup, and that it must have been purposely damaged to influence the 
claim. Haven then turned down Mr Cs claim again, under the policys fraud exclusion. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint here. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He found there were images and the 
original engineers report supported Havens position. Mr C didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He said Haven must have missed the damaged filler cap originally 
and that whoever poured AdBlue into his fuel tank must have also caused the damage to the 
locking mechanism. 
As Mr C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms Haven have relied upon say:
What is not covered
Section B does not cover:.
3. Damage or loss to Your Vehicle, spare parts, Accessories or Personal Belongings 
by theft, attempted theft or unauthorised use when:
a) Your Vehicle (including its boot and bonnet) is unlocked; or
f) You have not taken other reasonable precautions to protect Your Vehicle.
Fraud
1. If You or anybody insured by this policy makes a claim knowing it to be 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated, provides false documents or makes false 
statements in support of a claim, this insurance will be void and all claims will be 
forfeited. 
The most recent term Haven has relied upon is the fraud term in the policy. Its also said that 
its not avoided Mr Cs policy, as it lapsed, and so has just turned his claim down under this 
term. While this is the most recent term, Ive considered all the terms Haven has relied upon 
to see if its applied them in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mr C said someone must have poured AdBlue into his pickup to cause the damage. In 
response to this Haven said the pickup was either unlocked or the filler cap hadnt been 
closed properly. Meaning it would be unlocked. The exclusion Haven initially relied upon 
excludes cover for this and Im satisfied that if the filler cap had been left unlocked, its fair 
and reasonable for Haven to turn down the claim under this exclusion. I say this because if 
the filler cap wasnt unlocked then whoever poured AdBlue into it, shouldnt have been able 
to gain access to the filler cap. So, Im satisfied that this exclusion would be material to the 
loss. That means I need to decide if the pickup was most likely left unlocked.
Mr C has also said that his pickup hasnt been left unlocked, and since the initial inspection 
has had it inspected by another engineer. The engineer noted that there is damage to the 
locking mechanism of the filler cap which meant it wouldnt lock. Mr C said this must have 
been caused by whoever poured AdBlue into his fuel tank, to enable them to gain access to 
his pickup to vandalise it. 
Haven accepted the locking mechanism is damaged, but said it wasnt when it initially 
inspected Mr Cs pickup. So, thinks its been done intentionally. I reviewed the original 
engineers report and the follow up comments which say:
There did not appear to be any sign of tampering with the fuel flap, and if the vehicle 
was locked then the fuel flap would also be locked by the central locking and there 
did not appear to be any problem with this.
Since the original inspection Mr C has also had his pickup inspected. In this inspection the 
locking mechanism was tested and showed the fuel filler cap was not operating correctly, 
which meant it wouldnt lock. The report says: 
this revealed that the plastic pin that operates the central locking was not moving at 
all, further examination showed that it had been damaged,
The report goes onto say:
5.3 I have compared the images taken by the assessor from XXXXXX with my 
images taken on the day of my inspection and will say that Image 00747413-
1591960785662.JPG if you zoom in and my images 14,15 & 16 show that the plastic 
locking pin to the left fuel flap to be in a damaged state, this disproves the statement 
by that assessor that the vehicle had no damage
Its not in dispute that the locking mechanism is damaged and needed replacing. And Im 
satisfied that the images taken after the original inspection show its damaged. The question is whether Haven has acted fairly and reasonably by saying it was damaged after Mr Cs 
pickup had been originally inspected. 
From comparing both engineers reports, Im not going to instruct Haven to do anything else. 
I say this because Ive reviewed the images by both engineers, and the image in the original 
inspection report, referred to in the second report, is taken from some distance. When its 
enlarged the clarity of the image decreases. There is also another image in the original 
inspection report which is taken of the locking mechanism and is a close-up picture. The 
second engineers report hasnt commented on this, which I would have expected it to do so 
as it would show clearly whether the mechanism was damaged when the original report was 
completed. 
Ive also reviewed the repair quote from when Mr Cs pickup originally went in to have the 
fault diagnosed. The report lists a lot of parts and work which need doing, however this 
report doesnt mention that the filler cap mechanism is damaged, or that it needs replacing. 
Another invoice from the same garage almost a year later does comment on this damage, so 
I think its likely it would have mentioned it in the first report if the damage was there at the 
time. I appreciate its possible the manufacturing garage missed this when it first inspected 
Mr Cs pickup but given the manufacturing garage and the original inspecting engineer both 
havent noted any damage, Im not persuaded Haven has been unreasonable in turning 
down this claim. I know this will be disappointing for Mr C, but Im not going to tell Haven to 
do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman