DRN-1732388
The complaint
Mr C says Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Lending Stream gave Mr C ten loans during the period August 2018 - January 2019. All the 
loans were due to repaid in six monthly instalments. Mr C paid some loans early  but he 
hasnt been able to pay all his loans.
Heres a chart showing some of the main loan details as things stood at the start of this 
complaint:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedHighest* 
Combined 
Repayment
129/08/2018 17/01/2019 6 £400.00 £118.35
204/10/2018 06/10/2018 6 £200.00 £180.02*
306/10/2018 31/10/2018 6 £430.00 £249.16*
423/10/2018 31/10/2018 6 £100.00 £283.65*
526/10/2018 31/10/2018 6 £50.00 £300.57*
617/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £70.85
718/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £200.00 £141.26*
820/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £250.00 £228.18*
926/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £310.00 £326.89*
1031/01/2019 Outstanding 6 £140.00 £372.19*
*combined repayment amount where loans overlap
When Lending Stream first looked at Mr Cs complaint it didnt uphold his complaint. Mr C 
was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Mr C mainly said that Lending Stream hadnt made sufficient checks before lending to him 
and as a result he found himself in a cycle of spiralling debt which he was unable to get out 
of.
Our adjudicator thought that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair of Lending Stream to 
have provided loans 14, but he said Lending Stream shouldnt have provided loans 5-10 to 
Mr C. He explained why and set out the steps he said Lending Stream should take to put 
things right for Mr C.
Lending Stream reconsidered its position in the light of what our adjudicator had said and 
told us that it was willing to accept the outcome of our adjudicators finding. 
Lending Stream sent us details showing the figures it had worked out and we forwarded this 
information to Mr C. 
Mr C isnt happy with this proposed settlement. So his complaint comes to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. 
Ive independently looked at Mr Cs complaint afresh and considered all the loans that 
Lending Stream provided to him. Ive come to the same view as our adjudicator  and for the 
same reasons that the adjudicator explained in his view letter. But Ill say a bit more about 
why I say this  and even though its not the outcome Mr C is looking for, I hope this is 
helpful in explaining my decision.
Loans 1-4
Looking at loans 1- 4, Ive thought carefully about the information Lending Stream recorded 
for Mr C, including income and expenditure details from the time and the checks it carried 
out. 
Mr C was in paid work at the time. 
Overall, looking at the repayments that Mr C needed to make on the first four loans, even 
where loans overlapped, it looks like the amounts wouldve seemed relatively affordable 
compared with the disposable income Mr C had declared to Lending Stream.
I've taken into account: 
the loan repayment amounts,
what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time and
the fact that Mr C had been borrowing Lending Stream loans for just a few months at 
that stage, so he had no significant borrowing history with Lending Stream that 
couldve alerted the lender to any money problems.
Given all this, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream to ask Mr C for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable 
before agreeing the first four loans. 
So thats why Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 1 - 4.
loans 5-10
Like our adjudicator, as Mr C had 3 outstanding loans with Lending Stream already, I dont 
think Lending Stream shouldve provided loan 5, or any further loans to Mr C. 
As Lending Stream has accepted our adjudicators view and confirmed it is willing to take the 
steps he suggested to put things right for Mr C, I dont think I need to say more about why 
its fair to uphold this loan. And I think the way the adjudicator suggested resolving the complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Its in line with our approach when thinking about whats fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances where Mr C has had the benefit of the money he borrowed and he hasnt paid 
back what he now owes.
So I think Lending Stream should now do what it has offered to put things right. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything Mr C has told us  including 
what he said about his mental health. And Im very sorry to learn about the damaging impact 
of his debt on his relationships. But I havent seen enough to be able to say that Lending 
Stream knew, or that it shouldve been aware, that Mr C wasnt well when he applied for 
these loans  so I cant fairly uphold his complaint on this basis. 
And although I can appreciate that Mr C may be disappointed that the refund he will get isnt 
as much as he mightve hoped for, it is worked out fairly in line with the way we think 
compensation for unaffordable lending should be paid. So I cant reasonably say Lending 
Stream is required to pay him any more than the amount that will be worked out in line with 
whats set out below.  
Lending Stream has said it will extend support to Mr C by working with him to set up an 
affordable payment arrangement. And Mr C can expect Lending Stream (or any third party) 
to discuss payment options with him and treat him fairly and sympathetically if he needs 
further time to pay what he still owes.
If Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
Putting things right
Lending Stream should buy back outstanding debts it sold if able to do so and then take the 
following steps. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr C having made overpayments then 
these should be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Lending Stream should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
and move to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr C.E. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Cs credit file for loans 5-10. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Cs complaint. Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should take the steps Ive set out above to put things right  
as it has offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman