DRN-4171731
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) declined her application for a 
loan, which has resulted in her having to take out a loan with a different provider on a higher 
rate of interest.
What happened
On 22 March 2022, Mrs S applied to take out a loan with Tesco. Mrs S says the application 
was declined and she called Tesco to find out the reason why, but she wasnt provided with 
a reason. Because of this, Mrs S took out a loan with a different provider who were offering a 
higher rate of interest than Tescos advertised rate  making the borrowing more expensive. 
Later, on 27 March 2023, Tesco manually processed another application for Mrs S. This is 
because it noted that the previous application had declined because the credit reference 
agency it used couldnt provide any credit information at the time of initial application. Tesco 
processed a credit search visible on Mrs Ss credit file without her consent. 
Tesco responded to Mrs Ss complaint and upheld it in part. It explained that when Mrs S 
called to find out why the application had declined, the application should have been referred 
to its underwriters because the reason the application had declined was due to the credit 
reference agency, at that time, not being able to carry out a credit search. Tesco did note 
though that the agent gave Mrs S the option of appealing the declined decision. Tesco also 
agreed that it had carried out a credit search on 27 March 2023 without Mrs Ss consent, 
which it shouldnt have done. To apologise for the things it got wrong, it offered to pay Mrs S 
£100 and remove the search from her credit file. Tesco said that it wouldnt reimburse Mrs S 
with the additional cost to her in taking out a different loan. It said that it couldnt guarantee 
that Mrs S would have been accepted for the advertised rate  and it couldnt confirm what 
interest rate it would have offered her. Although, it did say that the application that was re-
keyed on 27 March 2022, would have offered her the advertised rate.
Mrs S remained unhappy with this and so brought the complaint to this service.
An Investigator considered what both parties had said, however they felt that Tesco had 
done enough to put things right. They said that Tesco couldnt guarantee the rate that Mrs S 
would have been offered. And that Mrs S was given the option of appealing the decision. 
Mrs S didnt agree with the Investigators view, and so the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything available to me, I wont be upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I 
appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to her, however I will explain my 
reasons for this below.
Its not in dispute here that Mrs Ss loan application declined because the credit reference 
agency couldnt carry out a credit search. Its also not in dispute that Mrs S wasnt told this 
during the phone conversation she had with it after the application had declined. 
However, I note that during the telephone conversation Mrs S was offered the option to 
appeal the decision. I accept that Mrs S says that she didnt want to do this because her 
application had already declined, but I must take into account that this was offered to her. So 
she could have had her application reviewed at the time.
Again, I dont think its in dispute that Mrs S ended up taking out a loan with a different lender 
on a higher rate of interest because her application with Tesco was declined. Tesco has said 
that when it re-keyed the Mrs Ss application the second time, it would have offered her the 
advertised rate she wanted  based on this, I dont think its unreasonable to assume that its 
more likely than not that Mrs S would have also been offered this rate five days previously if 
her first application had gone through properly. So its now for me to decide if Tesco are 
responsible for Mrs Ss financial losses in taking a loan on a higher rate. And I dont think it 
is.
I cant fairly hold Tesco responsible for the application declining  given that it was reliant on 
the credit reference agency providing data about Mrs S, which it couldnt do at the time the 
application was processed. 
It is clear from the phone conversation that happened after the application declined that Mrs 
S was surprised by the outcome of the application, given her circumstances. And I note she 
was provided with the option of having the application looked at manually by the underwriting 
team, but she didnt request to do this. I cant fairly say that Tesco should be responsible for 
the financial losses she says she has suffered, given that she was given the option to have it 
manually reviewed.
I agree that it was wrong of Tesco to process a credit search without Mrs Ss consent. It has 
said it would remove this search from her credit file which is what I would have expected it to 
do. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the £100 Tesco has already offered Mrs S is a fair compensation 
award for the things it got wrong  along with the removal of the credit search. So I wont be 
asking it to do anything more for Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman