DRN-2241504
The complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by British Friendly Society Limited to avoid (cancel 
from the start) his income protection policy due to misrepresentation.
What happened
In February 2017, Mr G took out an income protection policy through his financial 
adviser, which was underwritten by British Friendly. The aim of the policy was to provide 
him with an income if he couldnt work because of accident or illness.
Later that year, Mr G stopped work because of illness. In 2018, he submitted a claim to 
British Friendly. After investigating the claim, British Friendly thought Mr G had failed to 
disclose material information about his health when hed applied for the policy. It said that 
if hed told it the relevant information, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. It therefore 
avoided his policy from the start and returned some of his premiums paid. Unhappy with 
this, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 24 September 2020. My findings were:
As the investigator has explained, I need to consider the case in accordance with the 
principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA), which concerns misrepresentation.
British Friendly received an application form that had been completed by Mr G and his 
financial adviser. That form listed a number of medical statements, and Mr G confirmed 
that none of them applied to him. British Friendly then arranged for a telephone interview 
to take place between a third-party company and Mr G, so that further questions could be 
asked about his health. This interview took place on 10 February 2017.
Unfortunately, the third-party company no longer has a copy of the call recording. 
However, I see that the questions asked and answers given were contained in a 
Confirmation Form which was sent to Mr G following the phone interview. In the 
accompanying letter, British Friendly explained that it was very important he check the 
details to ensure they were correct. And if no response was received within 10 days, it 
would have deemed him to have verified the accuracy of the details. The letter also said 
that if incorrect information was provided on the application form or during the phone 
interview, this may result in non-payment of a claim. It advised Mr G to contact it 
immediately if he found any incorrect information.
Mr G didnt contact British Friendly after receiving the Confirmation Form. I therefore 
must assume that the questions and answers in that form are a correct reflection of 
what was discussed in the phone interview.
Ive listed below the questions on the Confirmation Form that British Friendly thinks Mr 
G failed to answer correctly, and addressed each of those in turn.
Have you ever had back pain, slipped disc, sciatica, neck or shoulder pain requiring 
more than two weeks off work or have you had any symptoms in the last five years?
Mr G answered no.
I think this question was clear. Mr Gs medical records show that he had 15 sessions 
of physio for longstanding lower back pain between November 2012 and June 2013.
Then in September 2013, Mr G saw a specialist after experiencing neck pain for around 
two months. He explained that hed had eight sessions of physio which hadnt helped. An 
MRI scan was arranged, and further physio recommended.
Given the length of time over which Mr G received treatment for his back and neck pain, 
and also that he had an MRI scan for his neck pain, I think it was reasonable to have 
expected him to have disclosed this information in response to the question.
Have you ever had arthritis, a muscular or rheumatic complaint, including joint pains, 
bone fractures, gout or a repetitive strain injury/syndrome requiring more than two 
weeks off work or have you had any symptoms in the last five years?
Mr G answered no.
I think this question was clear. In November 2012, Mr G saw a specialist as six weeks 
earlier as hed twisted his knee, which had become swollen and painful over the joint line. 
An MRI scan was arranged. He then visited a specialist in March 2013 as he was still 
having episodes where his knee became painful and swollen. He was found to have joint 
tenderness and told he had a mild form of osteoarthritis.
As Mr G had experienced knee pain that was severe enough for him to visit a specialist 
and have an MRI scan, I think it was reasonable to have expected him to have disclosed 
this in response to the question.
Have you ever had any symptoms such as double vision, muscle weakness or 
spasm, increased fatigue, numbness, loss of feeling or tingling of the hands, face 
or limbs?
Mr G answered no.
I think this question is too wide-ranging, and so not particularly clear. Id expect there to 
be a date range included in the question. Nonetheless, Ive considered Mr Gs medical 
history. This shows that in December 2013, he saw a consultant following nerve 
conduction studies and reported that he was having daily pins and needles in his hands. 
The consultant said the nerve conduction studies showed bilateral carpal tunnel 
syndrome. Mr G was referred to a different consultant, who he saw in January 2014. Mr G 
advised that consultant that hed been experiencing pins and needles in both hands for 
approximately two years.
Although the question didnt include a date range, Mr G had experienced pins and 
needles affecting both his hands a few years before taking out the policy. Given the 
length of time that hed been experiencing this problem and that he specifically went to 
see a specialist about this in 2014, I think its reasonable to have expected him to 
remember this and disclose it in response to the question.
In the last five years have you had a hernia or any digestive, stomach or bowel 
problems?Mr G answered no.
I think this question was clear. Mr G saw a dietician in April 2014 for symptoms of 
irritable bowel syndrome, and was reviewed in August 2014. He was then seen in March 
2015 by a dietician with further bowel symptoms.
Based on the number of times Mr G was experiencing symptoms in relation to 
bowel problems, Id have expected him to have disclosed this information in 
response to the question.
In the last five years have you had asthma, chronic or recurrent bronchitis or any other 
lung or breathing difficulties?
Mr G answered no.
I think this question was clear. In April 2016, Mr G went to see a specialist about 
bilateral nasal congestion and blockage that hed been experiencing for the past few 
years. The specialist noted that his wife had noticed him stop breathing at night. Given 
that this was only a year or so before taking out the policy, Id have expected him to 
have disclosed this information in response to the question.
In the last five years have you been referred by any other medical professional for any 
other tests or investigations?
Mr G answered yes. He disclosed a scan in 2014 that took place for an arm injury.
I think this question was clear. Mr G went to see a specialist in October 2015 following an 
ultrasound that had taken place due to a recurrent swelling of his left axilla. I see that he 
had also had an MRI scan for this. Given the investigations that had taken place, I think 
Mr G ought to have disclosed this.
Overall, I agree with British Friendly that Mr G failed to take reasonable care in 
answering the above questions and so there was misrepresentation.
Ive checked British Friendlys underwriting guide and, taken individually, Mr Gs medical 
problems wouldnt have resulted in his application being declined. However, British 
Friendly has confirmed that given the number of medical problems Mr G failed to 
disclose, as well as the two further problems that he did disclose, it wouldnt have been 
able to offer him cover. That means there was qualifying misrepresentation.
As Mr G did take care over some of the questions (as he disclosed two previous medical 
problems), I think his misrepresentation was careless rather than deliberate. Under 
CIDRA, British Friendly was therefore entitled to avoid the policy and refuse to consider 
the claim, however it must return the premiums paid.
British Friendly says that setting up the policy and assessing the claim has taken time 
and cost money, and so it considers its fair to retain the premiums paid before 23 
November 2017. I disagree. CIDRA makes it clear that when theres been careless 
misrepresentation and an insurer would not have entered into the contract, then it can 
avoid the policy but it must return the premiums.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr G responded to say that he disclosed everything during the telephone call with the third party, and was advised that some of the issues were out of time and therefore 
irrelevant to his application. He says its essential that the phone call be listened to, as 
he did disclose all his illnesses.
Mr G also said that British Friendly falsely obtained his medical records without his 
consent, and it had asked him why he hadnt told it about a degenerative disease, which 
a family member suffers with, rather than him.
British Friendly responded to say it had no further points to make.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G says he did disclose all his illnesses during the phone call, and wants us to listen to 
this. However, as I explained in my provisional decision, the third party no longer has a 
recording of that call. Ive therefore based my decision on the available information. The 
crucial document is the Confirmation Form, as this document was sent to Mr G and 
contained all the questions asked during the call and his answers given. 
Mr G says he was told during the call that some of the illnesses he disclosed werent 
relevant to his application because they were out of time. Its difficult to understand how 
Mr G could have been asked to disclose conditions/symptoms within the last five years, only 
to then be told that any conditions/symptoms that hed experienced in that timeframe werent 
relevant. When Mr G received the Confirmation Form, I think it would have been apparent 
that a lot of the questions hadnt been answered correctly, and therefore it would have been 
reasonable for Mr G to have raised this with British Friendly. 
The letter that accompanied the Confirmation Form did make it clear to Mr G that if the form 
contained incorrect information, this may result in a claim not being paid, and that he should 
contact British Friendly immediately if there was any incorrect information. 
As Mr G didnt contact British Friendly after he received the Confirmation Form to say that 
any of the answers were wrong, I remain of the view that its reasonable to assume that the 
questions and answers contained in the Confirmation Form were an accurate reflection of 
the discussion that took place. 
Although British Friendly was willing to offer Mr G cover after he told it about two of his 
medical conditions, it has confirmed to this service that if it had known of all of Mr Gs 
conditions, it wouldnt have offered him cover. That means that, under CIDRA, it was entitled 
to avoid the policy from the start. Though as Ive said, it does need to return all the premiums 
paid.
Mr G says that British Friendly falsely obtained his medical records without his consent. 
However, I see that when British Friendly asked Mr Gs GP for medical information, it 
referred the GP to an enclosed consent form that he had signed. I havent seen any 
evidence to support that British Friendly falsely obtained Mr Gs medical records. 
Mr G also says that British Friendly asked him why he hadnt told it about a degenerative 
disease, but this is a condition he doesnt have. He wants to know why British Friendly asked 
about this. 
British Friendly saw from Mr Gs medical records that he had asked his doctor if he could be 
screened for this particular condition, as a relative had it. Its not clear if that screening took place. When British Friendly was assessing Mr Gs claim, it asked him why he hadnt 
disclosed this condition. After Mr G confirmed he didnt have the condition in question, British 
Friendly accepted this, and this had no bearing on its decision to avoid the policy. Im 
satisfied that was reasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Friendly Society 
Limited to return the remaining premiums paid. Interest should be added to this at the 
rate of 8% simple per annum from the date British Friendly returned Mr Gs other 
premiums to the date of settlement.
If British Friendly considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman