DRN-2652566
The complaint
Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (when it was trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2004. The policy was added to 
Mrs Ps account when she completed an application form during a meeting in a Barclays 
branch.
Mrs P said she was recommended to take out the insurance that came with the Barclaycard 
although she already had other ways to pay if she couldnt work.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of the application form that Mrs P completed in order to take out her 
Barclaycard and the PPI. There were Yes and No tick boxes for PPI. So I think Mrs P was 
able to see that having PPI was a matter of choice and she couldve ticked the No box if 
she hadnt wanted PPI. 
Mrs P marked the Yes box to show she wanted to have the cover. 
So I think Barclays made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional and she made it clear on 
the application form she signed that she wanted to include the PPI option.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs P and it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when she applied for her Barclaycard. 
Mrs P was eligible for the cover. There were some things the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied to Mrs P when she took out her Barclaycard. 
Mrs P told us she couldve relied on her employer to pay her full sick pay for 3 months. But 
the policy wouldve protected Mrs Ps Barclaycard repayments for longer - up to 12 months 
per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mrs P 
mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to work or disabled, I think this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time.
And the policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event that Mrs P 
lost her job unexpectedly and became unemployed.
Hoping family and friends can help out financially in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
I dont know if Mrs P wouldve always had savings she wouldve been able to rely on if shed 
needed to make a claim. And the amount of savings she has mentioned isnt enough to 
make the PPI recommendation unsuitable for her. 
Having PPI meant Mrs P wasnt at risk of being forced to sell jewellery in order to pay her 
Barclaycard  bearing in mind also that she mightnt have been able to rely on getting as 
much as she hoped for if she needed a quick sale in order to be able to make her monthly 
repayment. 
PPI also provided a different sort of benefit and paid out in different circumstances to life 
cover  which paid out a lump sum in the event of loss of life. 
Looked at overall, I think the policy couldve provided Mrs P with a useful benefit if shed 
needed to claim and it was suitable for her.
Its possible some information Barclays gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. I dont know what was discussed or how much information Mrs P was told 
about the policy cost and benefits  its possible Barclays didnt explain this as well as it 
shouldve done. But Mrs P chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to - so she 
seems to have wanted PPI at the time. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that paying for the policy resulted in money 
problems for her  so thats not a reason for me to uphold her complaint. 
And as it was a policy she paid for each month, she was able to cancel it at any time at no 
extra cost if she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Given the benefits PPI offered Mrs P, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still have taken 
out the policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decisionThe PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman