DRN-3024533
The complaint
Mr M complains about restrictions placed on his InvestDirect account by HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My decision focuses solely on the restrictions placed on Mr Ms account from 7 August 2020 
onwards. Any other issues complained about have been decided on separately by another 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Restrictions were placed on Mr Ms InvestDirect account to stop him placing further 
purchase orders. This was after a trade took his linked bank account, also with 
HSBC, into a significantly overdrawn position.
Given this had happened previously, and Mr M didnt have an authorised overdraft 
limit to cover the substantial debt, I dont think HSBC acted unfairly by leaving the 
restrictions in place after manually clearing the debt.
Im satisfied HSBC acted reasonably and in both theirs and Mr Ms best interests 
when taking action. They did this to ensure he didnt place further trades outside of 
the agreed parameters of the account he held. 
In addition, the terms of Mr Ms InvestDirect account allow for HSBC to temporarily 
suspend all or any part of services provided to a customer. They advised Mr M his 
trading limit would not automatically be reinstated once his bank account was back in 
order.
HSBC provided Mr M the option to change his account to an InvestDirect Plus 
account. This wouldve allowed him to continue trading but required him to fund his 
account prior to a purchase being made.
I understand Mr M didnt take up this option, but Im satisfied, taking into 
consideration the circumstances of this complaint, HSBC acted fairly by offering it as 
resolution for him to proceed trading without entering into further unauthorised debt.
I can see HSBC received a request to transfer Mr Ms ISA and the holdings within it 
to another provider shortly after he raised concerns about the restrictions on his 
account.
So, in any case, I think HSBC had the right to act cautiously to ensure further trades 
werent placed without funds being available.
It follows Im satisfied HSBC acted fairly and reasonably by placing the restrictions they did 
on Mr Ms account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman