DRN-2758977
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr M complain that personal items werent returned after Aviva Insurance Limited 
dealt with a flood in their home. Where I refer to Aviva this includes its agents and call 
handlers.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr M suffered water damage in their home and Aviva appointed contractors to 
begin the repairs. Mrs B and Mr Ms family moved into alternate accommodation and to help 
the process provided a set of keys to the claims manager. The contractors were able to 
come and go freely from the property, installing dehumidifiers and removing items and 
furniture from the property as they felt necessary. 
Mrs B and Mr M were assured that everything was being carefully documented and stored. 
But they would often come home to find furniture and personal items had been removed. But 
they werent kept in touch or asked for permission when this happened. When they queried 
this Mrs B and Mr M were assured all their possessions were being kept in a safe place and 
would be returned at the end of the repair process.
Despite repeated requests Mrs B and Mr M said the only list they received was a record of 
irreparably damaged items. And theyve now discovered a number of items are missing. This 
included a ring of sentimental value, a gold chain, earrings and various articles of clothing 
and cosmetics. Mrs B and Mr M informed the claims manager and were told to report the 
loss to the police. Mrs B and Mr M said theyve put a considerable amount of time into the 
investigation and pursuit of their missing possessions. And they want Aviva to return their 
items and remedy the situation.
Aviva said itd made numerous efforts to obtain the final police report. When Aviva finally 
received the report it said there was no evidence of an offence taking place. The police 
hadnt identified any theft. Aviva said the missing items werent on the inventory taken by its 
agents. And the police had ended their enquiries. There was nothing more it could do.
Mrs B and Mr M werent satisfied with Avivas response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see Aviva had encouraged Mrs B and 
Mr M to report the lost items to the police. And she felt their initial reluctance was because 
they werent saying thered been a break-in. Mrs B and Mr M thought the items had probably 
been lost in transit or storage.
Our investigator could see the police report confirmed there was no evidence of theft. And 
she felt it would be difficult to prove theft if Avivas agents had been given a key to enter the 
property. But she thought the items couldve been lost in transit or misplaced during the 
removals or storage. And she noted Mrs B and Mr M had received a few items which they 
said didnt below to them, including a towel and some clothing. 
Based on what shed seen our investigator thought the items did exist and may have been 
lost or misplaced by Avivas agents. She felt Mrs B and Mr M had been very consistent 
throughout the complaint. 
And theyd provided photos where possible to show they owned the items that were missing. 
So she thought Aviva should put things right by reimbursing Mrs B and Mr M for the value of 
their lost items plus 8% simple interest. 
Aviva didnt agree. The police report had confirmed no theft had taken place. So its asked 
for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mrs B and Mr M have experienced. They returned from 
holiday to considerable water damage across their home. And that mustve been very 
upsetting. Aviva placed the family in temporary accommodation so its agents could carry out 
the necessary repairs. And it appointed a claims manager to look after the process.
Mrs B and Mr M both work full time. And they have children of school age. So it wasnt 
practical for either of them to be on site while the repairs were carried out. They provided a 
set of keys to the claims manager so the repairs could take place as quickly as possible. In 
effect Mrs B and Mr M placed their trust in Aviva and its agents to care for their property and 
their possessions.
Aviva says its agents carried out a comprehensive catalogue of everything that was taken 
from the house. And its provided a spreadsheet showing photos of each item removed and 
its original location. But Mrs B and Mr M said they never received a check-list of what was 
being removed while it was happening. And even though Aviva says its returned everything 
that was removed, some of their clothing and personal items are still missing.
Mrs B and Mr M said some family heirlooms arent listed as being removed by Aviva but they 
no longer have them. When the boxes of possessions were returned some of the more 
valuable items were loose in the box while other items, such as toys, were carefully 
wrapped. So Mrs B and Mr M feel that some of their possessions have been lost or 
misplaced by Aviva. And this has been compounded by Mrs B and Mr M finding items that 
never belonged to them amongst the boxes of returned possessions.
Mrs B and Mr M provided full access to Aviva. Its agents were able to come and go as they 
needed to continue the repairs. They would sometimes find items had been removed without 
notice from their home. And they trusted Aviva to keep an accurate record and return all of 
the items at the end of the process. When Mrs B and Mr M reported their concerns to the 
claims manager they were told to inform the police. But they were hesitant to take that step 
at first. Mrs B and Mr M felt it was more likely their items had been mislaid rather than stolen. 
But Aviva said it couldnt it couldnt pursue a claim until a police report had been received.
I understand Aviva conducted internal investigations and reviewed the photographic 
evidence. And theyd not found any evidence of expensive or sentimental jewellery other 
than some cosmetic jewellery. Aviva argue that Mrs B and Mr M are the only people who say 
the items existed and are now missing. But if Aviva only catalogued and photographed the 
items it boxed for removal that doesnt prove the items werent taken from the property 
without being added to the inventory. And if Aviva had full access to the property its unlikely 
the police wouldve found any evidence of theft as no break-in had taken place.
While I appreciate Aviva completed a comprehensive list of the items removed during the 
repairs it doesnt appear to be totally fool-proof. Aviva didnt provide Mrs B and Mr M with an 
updating inventory as items were removed from each room. And they didnt seek permission when removing personal items in addition to any larger 
items of furniture and fittings that mightve needed removing.
If Aviva had done so Mrs B and Mr M mightve been alerted to the fact that certain 
possessions were no longer in the property but hadnt appeared on the storage list. And 
Aviva hasnt been able to show it carried out a returns exercise to make sure the items it had 
included on the inventory had been safely returned. Mrs B and Mr M say items of clothing 
and a bottle of perfume on the inventory were not returned as Aviva claim. And they also 
received items that didnt belong to them, although theres no record of Aviva collecting them 
and returning them to their rightful owners.
Aviva argue it has no evidence a theft has taken place. And the police report confirms that 
position. So it says it cant consider a claim for theft on Mrs B and Mr Ms contents insurance 
policy.
But I dont think thats totally fair. The details Mrs B and Mr M provided throughout this claim 
have been clear and consistent. And theyve been proactive in chasing both Aviva and the 
police for a response. Theyve been able to provide photos showing either the lost items 
previously in their possession or photos of very similar items for reference. And theyve 
explained how each of the missing items came into their possession and what their 
approximate cost or value was. 
Items were placed in storage and Mrs B and Mr M were provided with any documentation to 
ensure clarity around what was removed and when. There are items on the list suggesting 
theyve been returned but Mrs B and Mr M havent got them. But there are also items 
returned that didnt belong to Mrs B and Mr M and this highlights to me that the process is 
open to some errors and mistakes.
I think on balance its most likely the items Mrs B and Mr M say havent been returned did 
belong to them and the fair and reasonable outcome is for Aviva to pay for the nearest 
suitable replacement.  
Putting things right
Aviva should reimburse Mrs B and Mr M for the cost of the missing items, based on the 
valuations provided below.  And it should add 8% simple interest from the date the items 
were first reported as missing (13 September 2019) until the date the payment is made.
 Art Deco Ring (actual antique, 1920's, similar ring valued at £1750
 Gold Pendant with Ruby (gift from grandparents) valued at £300
 Gold Earrings with blue stones valued at £300
 Chanel No.19 perfume valued at £100
 Green Monsoon Dress valued at £90
 French Connection Blouse valued at £70
 Wool Blazer valued at £105 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im upholding this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must pay Mrs B and Mr M a total of £2715 for the missing items 
plus interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from 13 September 2019 until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman