DRN-2352939
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a shared appreciation mortgage 
in 1998. 
What happened
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by her daughter, but for the sake of simplicity I have 
referred to the submissions as though they have been made by her directly. 
The shared appreciation mortgage (SAM) which is the subject of this complaint was sold to 
Mrs W in 1998. Given the length of time since the sale, there are limits to the evidence that 
has been provided. However, in addition to some case specific evidence, Barclays Bank has 
been able to provide some standard documents as well as an explanation of both the 
product launch and the standard sales process. 
I will now set out the key documents and explain what they showed, as far as is relevant to 
this complaint. Where available, I will also make reference to the documents that have been 
provided which relate to Mrs Ws sale.
SAMs
In 1998 Barclays Bank launched a new lending product; the SAM. Barclays Bank was not 
the actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank established a wholly owned 
subsidiary company, Barclays SAMS Limited, which acted as lender. Mrs Ws contract was 
with Barclays SAMS Limited.
A SAM is an equity release product, which provided customers with a loan that could last the 
lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured via a mortgage on their property. These 
SAMs didnt require any monthly payments from customers and no interest was added to the 
loan. Instead, at the time of repayment, the customer would have to repay the loan and a 
percentage of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged property. This percentage was 
three times the loan to value ratio (LTV) of the mortgage at the time of borrowing.
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have to repay the amount of the initial loan - with no appreciation. 
As mentioned, Barclays Bank was not the actual lender for these mortgages. It has told us 
that it acted as the lenders agent, arranging and then administering the mortgages on behalf 
of Barclays SAMS Limited. Barclays Bank has said that all activities involved in the sale 
were carried out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays SAMS Limited.
Product Launch
In early 1998, Barclays Bank sent circulars to branch managers letting them know about the 
product that was to be launched. They referred to more detailed information that was 
contained in its Mortgage Information Manual (the Manual) and a training support booklet.
As well as providing details of the repayment formula, in several places the Manual made it 
clear that the lender of the loan was a separate company to Barclays Bank. There were not 
though any directions that customers should be specifically informed of this separation. The 
Manual did direct staff to establish what level of service a customer wanted. These levels are 
set out in the Mortgage Code as being the levels of service that can be provided under the 
code by lenders and intermediaries.
These were for Barclays Bank to provide:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable for the customer 
(Level A service),
information on the different types of mortgage product available (Level B service), or
information on a single mortgage product only (Level C service).
Sale Process
Various promotional materials were used to advertise the SAMs. Unfortunately, Barclays 
Bank hasnt been able to provide this service with an example of the advert it used at the 
time and it isnt known if Mrs W saw it. 
The advert apparently directed interested parties to request a free 'Guide to Unlocking the 
Capital in Your Home' (Guide) written by the Daily Telegraphs Personal Finance Editor and 
sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been provided to us. But it isnt 
known if Mrs W saw a copy of this herself.
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits 
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page of the Guide says that it has been sponsored by Barclays Mortgages.
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three times the increase in the proportion of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this.
The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having to pay any interest on the capital unlocked from the home by 
the SAM, the owner must currently repay three times the proportion of the original 
valuation borrowed from any increase in the house price by the time it is so/d or 
transferred. So the risk with a SAM is that house prices rise substantially and the 
homebuyer finds they have given up their right to receive up to 75 percent of that 
uplift."
Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain a copy of SAM product brochure (Brochure) 
from branches of Barclays Bank and from Barclays Direct Mortgages. Again, we dont know 
if Mrs W received a copy of this Brochure.
The Brochure referred only to Barclays Bank and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company was the lender. The Brochure gave the following explanation of 
how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your property's current value for as long as you 
want without making any monthly payments, until you come to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).When you repay the loan, you a/so pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time, it really is that straightforward...
Basically, if you come to sell your home (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time... The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying that by how much the property has gained in value.
It included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work:
Original Valuation (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage of Property 
Value Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000 
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000 
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500Attached to the Brochure was an "Important Information You Must Read leaflet (Leaflet).
This included a further example of a SAM:
The Leaflet referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays... and that 
Barclays is a responsible lender".
The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred to Barclays Bank being a member of the Banking 
Ombudsman Scheme. And said that:
Barclays is committed to The Mortgage Code and The Banking Code, both of which 
set out the commitments and standards of banks in dealing with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes.
The Mortgage Code relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding our mortgage products and services and how they operate. 
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
 marketing of mortgages.
It should be noted here that the Mortgage Code didnt apply to loans that were governed by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And Mrs Ws loan was a regulated agreement under 
the CCA. However, the Banking Code did not contain this limitation and, as far as is relevant 
to this decision, contains similar provisions to the Mortgage Code.
Consumers like Mrs W, who chose to pursue the mortgage, submitted an application form. 
This application was on a Barclays Mortgages headed form.
Mrs Ws application form set out her personal details, including that she was retired and had 
a basic annual income of £6,500. It also confirmed the property details and the loan sum 
required. 
The estimated value of Mrs Ws property was £60,000 and the requested loan amount was 
£15,000. The form did not include details of the purpose of the loan, but Mrs W has told this 
service it was to buy furniture.
Attached to the application was a declaration form that consumers were required to sign. 
Mrs W signed this on 18 May 1998. The first point on this form stated: 
I apply for a Shared Appreciation Mortgage from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC"
No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information being used by the Barclays Group, without this 
group being defined.
It seems that in many cases the sales process also involved a conversation in branch. It isnt 
clear if this is what happened in Mrs Ws case. Barclays Bank has said that these 
conversations would, usually, have been on the basis of a Level C service being provided - 
i.e. that the conversation would relate to Barclays Bank providing information on the SAM 
only. 
A confirmation of discussion form was usually completed at the time of such discussions, 
usually confirming the level of service. The form is effectively a checklist of topics that might 
need to be discussed with the ability to confirm Y or N depending on the conversation that 
took place.
The confirmation of discussion form in Mrs Ws sale is date 28 May 1998 and has been 
typed out. The level of service provided has not been stated. But from the answers to the 
questions, it seems different types of mortgage and product may have been discussed. It is 
unlikely Mrs W would have seen this form  the indication is that it was for internal use only.
The application was considered and, if approved, an offer was sent to the customer. 
Barclays process was to send an initial Advance Copy and then a week after this an actual 
Agreement was sent, asking customers to sign and return if they wanted to take out the 
mortgage. A copy of the Advance Copy from Mrs Ws sale has not been provided by 
Barclays Bank, but the Agreement from her sale has been. The form and content of the 
Advance Copy and the actual Agreement were largely the same.
The only significant difference between the two was that the Advance Copy set out the 
customers right to withdraw from the proposed credit agreement. This gave customers a 
week to consider the terms of the loan and explained that if they did not wish to enter it, they 
should not sign the actual Agreement and should merely inform the lender or broker of their 
decision.The Advance Copy also stated: 
You should read [the proposed agreement] carefully. If you do not understand it, you 
may need to seek professional advice. If you do not wish to go ahead with it, you 
need not to. 
A week after the Advance Copy, an Agreement was sent for customers to sign and return if 
they wanted to take out the mortgage. Mrs Ws Agreement is signed, though the date of the 
signature is not legible on the copy provided.
The Agreement, itself dated 24 June 1998, listed the lender as Barclays SAMS Limited. The 
Agreement confirmed the amount of credit being provided (A) as £15,000 against a property 
value of £60,000. This meant the borrowing was 25% of the LTV; the maximum amount that 
could be borrowed via this product. The Agreement also stated that a valuation fee (B) of 
£160 was payable on redemption and that there was a legal fee (C) of £305. 
The offer stated the applicable APR as 2.5%, but clarified this by saying: 
The APR is based on the total charge for credit which includes fees, in calculating 
the APR we have not taken into account the Shared Appreciation Amount (if any) 
since this will not be known at the date of the Agreement, or any variation of fees B 
and C. The rate of interest under this Agreement is zero.
The Agreement then explained the shared appreciation amount, as follows:
And later gave the following, generic, example:
Mrs Ws Agreement stated that the loan needed to be drawn down by 31 July 1998. 
The Agreement also included the following:
You confirm that you have read and understood this Agreement (including the 
Conditions and any special conditions), in particular, you confirm that we have 
recommended that you obtain independent legal advice on the meaning and effect of 
this Agreement and the Mortgage.
A copy of the Advance Copy was also sent to a customers solicitors, along with a request 
for a report on the title of the property and Instructions to Solicitors. These Instructions 
directed, in part, solicitors to confirm that their clients understood the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage.
Barclays Banks system indicates Mrs Ws solicitors wrote to the bank on 14 July 1998 with 
the completed Report on Title. The points that Mrs Ws solicitor would have agreed to in 
completing this included that they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage had been explained to Mrs W. They requested the loan 
amount be released, which it seems is what happened.
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that in order to redeem the SAM she is required to pay what she 
considers to be a disproportionate amount. She had little financial experience when the 
SAM was sold to her. And she is unhappy Barclays Bank did not share expert 
knowledge from the council of mortgage lenders forecasting substantial property value 
increases.
Barclays Bank said that the information provided during the sale clearly set out the terms of 
the SAM. And that no advice was given by the bank. Barclays Bank has said that customers, 
including Mrs W, were instructed to seek their own financial and legal advice. And that 
Mrs Ws solicitor had confirmed that the details of the SAM, etc. were understood by Mrs W 
prior to the loan being drawn down.
Barclays Bank has said that it does not have control over house prices and could not have 
predicted the changes in the market since the sale of this SAM. It said it was also unable to 
vary the terms and conditions of the mortgage or lower the amount repayable.
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered that parts of this complaint about Barclays Banks actions in the 
sale of the SAM do fall within our jurisdiction. He explained that a predecessor to this 
service, the Office of the Banking Ombudsman (OBO), would have considered such 
complaints. And that this service has the power to consider these complaints as well.
However, the investigator did also find that whilst this service was able to consider the 
banks actions in relation to the sale, we are unable to consider any issues connected to the 
fairness of the product or the terms of the SAM itself. Such concerns would need to be 
raised with Barclays SAMS Limited and the investigator explained that this service does not 
have the jurisdiction to consider such a complaint against this entity.
In relation to the sale of the SAM by Barclays Bank, the investigators opinion was that no 
advice had been provided to Mrs W by the bank. And the information they had been given at 
the time was clear on the terms of the SAM.
Ultimately, the investigator did not uphold the complaint about the sale of the SAM. Mrs W 
responded, disagreeing with this outcome. As such, this complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account, amongst other things, the relevant law, regulations and industry 
practice. 
Before I can consider the merits of this complaint, I need to confirm whether it is a complaint 
that falls within the jurisdiction of this service. Based on the evidence available on this case, 
as well as the other information I have been provided with, I consider that there are aspects 
to this complaint that do fall within the jurisdiction of this service. But that there are also parts 
of the complaint that I am unable to consider.
Are the relevant sale activities of Barclays Bank within the scope of this service?
The ability of this service to consider complaints stems from the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated rules have been incorporated into 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook, particularly the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints (DISP) section of this Handbook. DISP sets out the extent of this services 
jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these rules and so can only look at a complaint if allowed 
by the rules.
This part of this complaint concerns events in 1998; before the start of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services compulsory jurisdiction on 1 December 2001. But, as DISP 2.3.2G 
explains, we can consider complaints about acts and omissions that took place before this 
date, if that complaint could have been considered by one of our predecessor schemes. 
If such a complaint does fall within the jurisdiction of this service, article 7 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (the Ombudsman Transitional Order) requires, in part, that 
when considering such a complaint, we need to do so on the same basis as the former 
scheme would have.Effectively, this means that although Mrs Ws SAM was sold to her prior to the creation of 
this service, and the rules that govern our jurisdiction, we are able to consider a complaint 
about this sale if such a complaint would have been considered by a previous scheme. But 
that, if we are able to consider the complaint, we need to do so on the same basis as the 
former scheme would have.
At the time Mrs Ws SAM was sold, Barclays Bank was a member of the OBO scheme. And I 
consider the OBO would have considered a complaint about Barclays Bank providing 
information about a credit agreement secured on land by a first charge mortgage. And that, 
as Barclays Bank provided such a service to Mrs W during the sale of her SAM, the OBO 
would have considered this complaint.
As such, I consider that this service can consider a complaint about the sale of Mrs Ws SAM 
by Barclays Bank. However, this ability is limited to considering the information and any 
advice provided about the product. And it would not extend to considering the terms of the 
SAM itself.
Jurisdiction over the terms and fairness of the loan
A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a SAM were unfair would need to be 
considered against the lender itself. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary.
As has been previously explained, the lender of Mrs Ws SAM was Barclays SAMS Limited. 
It is Barclays SAMS Limited that is responsible for the terms of the SAM. 
I appreciate that Barclays SAMS Limited is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMS Limited is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include setting the terms of the credit agreement. And 
this applies also to the relationship between the borrower and the lender.
Having established the parts of Mrs Ws complaint I consider fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service, I shall now outline my findings in relation to the merits of her complaint.
Did Barclays Bank advise or pressure Mrs W to take out the SAM?
As has been noted, the Manual does envisage a situation where a Level A mortgage 
intermediary service might be provided. And there was no guidance, that I have seen, that 
Barclays Bank branch staff should not carry out an advised sale of the SAM. They would 
have, in other situations, carried out advised sales in relation to Barclays Banks own 
mortgage products. So, I consider that some SAMs may have been sold by Barclays Bank 
during an advised sale.
The question here though, is whether Mrs Ws SAM was taken out following such advice 
from Barclays Bank. There is no persuasive evidence that any advice was given to Mrs W by 
Barclays Bank. Barclays Bank has said that this was not an advised sale. And Mrs W has 
not provided any evidence, including testimony, that advice was given or that she thought 
she was being advised.
It isnt clear whether Mrs W contacted Barclays Bank about the SAM, or if the bank raised 
this option with her first. But it seems she was seeking finance for a purchase, so most likely 
approached the bank. It also seems more likely than not that she was given at least a week to consider the terms 
of the mortgage, and to decide whether she wanted to proceed with it. From the timeframes 
involved in her sale, it does not seem that she was either rushed into entering the 
Agreement or in drawing down the loan. So, I think she would have had the opportunity to 
decide not to go ahead with the SAM. Overall, there is no evidence of Barclays Bank 
pressurising Mrs W into the Agreement. 
Having considered all of the circumstances of this case, I do not consider it is more likely 
than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mrs W to believe they were 
providing, advice in relation to the sale of this SAM. And I do not consider Mrs W was 
pressurised into taking it out either.
But I am mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility to provide clear information.
Did the information provided allow Mrs W to understand the SAM?
I am persuaded that the sale was more likely than not conducted on a non-advised basis. 
This means all Barclays Bank was required to do was provide appropriate information to 
allow Mrs W to make her own decision. 
In terms of the activity in relation to the sale, I am required to take into account the approach 
OBO would have taken had a complaint about this activity been referred to them. This would 
likely have included taking into account the content of the Banking Code.
One of the key commitments in the Banking Code was for members to give information on 
services and products in plain language. And to offer help if there was any aspect the 
consumer didnt understand. Help should also have been provided to make sure customers 
understood the financial implications of mortgages and other lending. The Banking Code 
also required members to ensure all advertising and promotional material was clear, fair, 
reasonable and not misleading. So, I have taken approach into account when considering 
this complaint.
As Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what would happen to 
the value of Mrs Ws property. Mrs W has referred to forecasts from the council of mortgage 
lenders, but has not provided any evidence of what these were. Barclays Bank did forecast 
that there would be an increase in property values over the coming years  the example 
used in the Brochure was an annual increase of 4.5%. But I have not been provided with any 
evidence that Barclays Bank was aware that house prices would rise as steeply as they did 
in the early 2000s. They did set out, in the Guide, that such a rise was a potential risk that 
customers faced though. 
Barclays Bank also did not know how long it would be until the loan was redeemed. This 
meant that all that could reasonably be provided was the formula for the calculation and 
some examples of possible outcomes.
As set out above, the Brochure set out the mechanism for how the shared appreciation 
amount payable on redemption was calculated as follows:
The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much the property has gained in value.It then provided several examples of how this might work in practice. In my view, this 
information provided a reader with a reasonable level of information to allow them to 
understand the basic mechanism behind the mortgage. And I dont consider that the 
language used was unclear or misleading. Further written examples of how the SAM worked 
were provided in the Leaflet.
We dont know whether Mrs W saw the Guide, the Leaflet, or the Brochure. But she was 
provided with the Agreement. This included its own example of what might happen, and 
showed a property increasing by 16.7% over a two-year period. 
I do note that the examples in these documents used different figures and different lengths 
of time before repayment. But I dont think this in itself made the arrangements less clear. If 
anything, these differences gave the reader more opportunity to see possible outcomes. 
I also note that the figures used in these examples are significantly different from the 
ultimate appreciation that has accrued on the value of Mrs Ws property. But, as mentioned, 
Barclays Bank was not able to say how the housing market would develop in the years 
following the sale. And the examples used showed a range of possible outcomes and the 
information provided made it clear that the ultimate appreciation would depend on how long 
the mortgage was held and what might or might not happen in the future.
I have also considered the wording used in the explanations. I have taken into account 
Barclays Banks comments that customers were directed to clarify anything they didnt 
understand through independent legal advice, and that Mrs W did use a solicitor who was 
sent the Instructions. But I am also mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility
to provide clear information.
The Agreement that Mrs W signed said that:
The Total Loan shown at A is to be repaid in one lump sum and the Shared 
Appreciation Amount will be payable where the Property value before redemption of 
the Mortgage is greater than the Original Property Valuation
This uses a number of terms which have specific definitions. But I consider that these 
definitions were clearly provided within the Agreement. So, whilst a customer would be 
required to consider the document carefully, I dont consider the language used to have 
been inappropriate. There were some unknowns, but these were highlighted by additional 
wording.
The Brochure also stated that branch staff could help if customers didnt understand any 
aspect of the SAM. It isnt possible for us to know what information Mrs W was provided with 
verbally. I do think that the examples and explanations provided to Barclays Bank branch 
staff, in the Manual and training material as well as the customer facing material, would most 
likely have made them aware of the mechanism involved in the SAM. And given this, I dont 
think it is more likely than not that Mrs W was given incorrect information about this verbally.
Ultimately, because of the nature of the loan, definitive figures could not be provided. But I 
do not consider that this in itself mean the information provided in the promotional material 
was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading. And the written information provided with 
the loan agreement would, in my view, have allowed Mrs W to understand the financial 
implications of the SAM.Summary
Mrs W has referred to other customers apparently having received settlements in relation to 
SAMs in court. I am unable to comment on the circumstances of these court cases, and I am 
not sure if the parties involved included Barclays Bank. My role here is to consider the 
actions of Barclays Bank and decide whether their response to Mrs Ws complaint was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint. 
In summary, I do not consider it more likely than not that Barclays Bank advised or 
pressurised Mrs W in relation to the sale. I also do not consider that the information provided 
to Mrs W at the time of the sale was not clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading. So, I do 
not consider Barclays Bank mis-sold this product to Mrs W. And it follows that Barclays 
Banks response to Mrs Ws complaint was fair and reasonable.
Whilst I note Mrs Ws concerns over the fairness of this product, this service is unable to 
consider a complaint about this point in the circumstances. Such a complaint would need to 
be made against an entity which does not fall within the jurisdiction of this service. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman