DRN-3626928
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds (LVs) handling 
of a claim he made under his specialist motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise Mr W is unhappy that LVs approved repairer had 
incorrect information about the policy limit and excess for his windscreen cover.
Mr W is also unhappy with the amount LV is being charged by the approved repairer. He 
says this is significantly more than he could obtain a private repair for.
And additionally, Mr W is unhappy with poor service and communication from LV and its 
agents.
LV accepts there was an administrative error which resulted in its repairer having incorrect 
information about the excess and limit. It has apologised, agreed to waive the policy excess 
and to absorb the remaining costs so that Mr W doesnt need to contribute anything toward 
the cost of repair. And it has offered to pay a further £50 compensation for the impact of the 
errors. 
LV has also offered Mr W the details of two additional approved repairers Mr W can use if he 
remains unhappy to deal with the first approved repairer.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She agreed that the service Mr W received 
hadnt been good enough. She explained that she wouldnt expect LV to share a breakdown 
of the costs from the approved repairer as the rates between them would be commercially 
sensitive. Overall, she thought by agreeing to cover the full cost of the claim, offering the 
option of alternative repairers, waiving the excess and paying £50 compensation that LV had 
done enough to put things right.
Mr W didnt accept our investigators opinion. So as no agreement has been reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr W has raised several concerns and questions throughout the complaint, I wont 
necessarily be providing a specific answer to each and every point. Instead, Ill focus on the 
points I believe are key to delivering a fair and reasonable answer to the issues at the heart 
of the complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to Mr W, rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service and my role within it.
Having carefully considered the evidence and arguments provided, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that things have gone wrong in this case. LV accepts that its approved 
repairer had incorrect information about the limit and excess which resulted in Mr W being 
asked for a significant contribution toward the repair  in error.
Mr W was keen to understand how the error happened and what was being done to ensure it 
didnt happen to others. While this isnt all, necessarily, information I would expect LV to 
share, LV has explained that the issue was caused by an administrative error on its part. It 
agreed that all policies through Mr Ws broker could increase the windscreen limit to £1,000 
but this wasnt updated correctly on its matrix. LV has said it is looking into the mechanisms 
between it and Mr Ws broker in regard to how the information is uploaded onto their 
databases. In the meantime, LV said it would confirm the correct details of Mr Ws cover to 
the approved repairer of his choice.
It also isnt in dispute that the communication and customer service from the approved 
repairer hasnt always been of the highest standard. The approved repairer has apologised 
directly for this, in addition to LV. The approved repairer also explained that feedback was 
being given internally regarding the communication issues.
To resolve the complaint, LV has offered to waive the excess and ensure that Mr W isnt 
asked for any contribution to the windscreen repair. It has also offered £50 compensation.
In providing an explanation, apologising and offering alternative suppliers to carry out the 
repair, I consider that LV has done enough to resolve the error it made. So, all that remains 
is to consider the impact the error had on Mr W, and whether LV has also done enough to 
put that right.
Mr Ws correct excess is £90 and correct limit is £1,000. The approved supplier said the cost 
of repairing/replacing the windscreen was around £1,200. That means if everything had 
gone as it should have done, Mr W would still have been asked for a contribution toward the 
repair costs, in addition to paying the excess. But LV has offered to waive the excess and 
absorb any additional cost so that Mr W isnt required to make any payment toward the 
claim. This is more than it is required to do under the terms of the policy. In addition, it has 
offered a further £50 compensation.
I appreciate Mr W disagrees with the amount being quoted by the approved repairer. But as 
our investigator explained, the rates between the repairer and LV are commercially sensitive, 
so we wouldnt expect LV to share a breakdown. I am, however, satisfied that the amount 
quoted is what the approved repairer would have charged.Taking everything that happened into account, including those communication issues and 
delays which can be solely attributed to LV or its agents, I think LVs offer is sufficient to 
fairly compensate Mr W for the impact of its, and its agents, errors. So, I wont be directing 
LV to increase its offer to Mr W.
As I understand it, Mr W has been awaiting the outcome of his complaint from our service 
before going ahead with the repair. If this remains the case, Mr W should contact LV to let it 
know which approved repairer he wants to use. Alternatively, Mr W can use any repairer of 
his choice, but in that case the most LV would contribute toward the cost would be £100  in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to waive the 
excess and absorb any repair costs above the £1,000 policy limit. It has also offered an 
additional £50 compensation to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So, my decision is that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr W £50, 
if it hasnt already, and that it should settle Mr Ws claim in line with its offer  should Mr W 
decide to proceed with a repair from one of its approved repairers.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman