DRN-1303277
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to the inadvertent disclosure of Ms Ss 
personal bank statements to her brother and his solicitor.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms S and TSB, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Following Ms Ss father passing away, TSB sent bank statements to her brothers solicitor, in 
the belief that these statements related to Ms Ss father, who in turn notified her brother. In 
the event the statements did not actually relate to her father rather they were of Ms Ss 
personal account. TSB have acknowledged that they fell into error and have explained the 
cause was human error. They made an offer to pay Ms S £356 which our investigator 
thought was insufficient and suggested £500 would be reasonable. TSB accepted our 
investigators view and increased their offer.
Ms S however didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. The issue essentially boils down to what I think is the appropriate level of 
compensation for Ms S, since TSB accept there has been a failure in the level of service Ms 
S was entitled to receive.
Ive thought carefully about what a fair and reasonable level of award might be, and in so 
doing Ive considered not only the level of awards this service has made for trouble and 
upset in similar cases, but also, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to 
have had on Ms S.
I have taken account of the fact that Ms Ss personal details were disclosed to her brother, 
and t it would appear these details have then subsequently been published on social media 
by her sister. That is most regrettable, and I certainly empathise with Ms S. However, I do 
not consider that the publication of her personal details can be a criticism laid at the door of the TSB. Such publication was not reasonably foreseeable, and although it is an entirely 
unreasonable action for her sister to have taken, if indeed she did, it was not caused by 
TSB. Whilst the disclosure ought not to have occurred, the correct and appropriate action 
would have been to return the statements to the bank, once it was apparent they had been 
disclosed in error.
I acknowledge Ms S has incurred legal costs from 2 firms of solicitors, but this appears to be 
in relation to an action her brother is bringing against her and concerning her fathers estate. 
I do not consider that this is an issue which is causally related to the disclosure of the 
statements, since it relates to his allegations, (which are denied), that Ms S received monies 
from her father which now ought to be returned to his estate. That action is such that it would 
most likely have been brought against Ms S irrespective of the disclosure of her statements.
Having said that I do accept, irrespective of the relationship which exists between Ms S and 
her siblings, that it was a serious error on TSBs part. Putting all of this into the balance I 
think what TSB initially offered was too low and I agree with our investigator that it should be 
increased. In my view I do think £500 is a fair and reasonable sum and enough to put 
matters right.
Putting things right
TSB has already made an offer to pay Ms S £356 to settle this complaint, and I think that this 
should be increased to £500 in total.  
My final decision
So, my final decision is that TSB should pay Ms S £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman