DRN-2959455
The complaint
Mr L complains about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to turn down his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr Ls claim was for jewellery, watches, mobile phones, and cash.
The policy provides cover for up to £1,500 for personal belongings that are lost or 
stolen, with a maximum of £300 for any single item, and a maximum of £500 for all 
valuables combined (unless extended personal belongings cover was taken out). 
Personal belongings are defined in the policy as Your luggage and its contents, 
your valuables and anything you wear or carry when travelling. The policy definition 
of valuables includes mobile phones, jewellery and watches. 
However, the policy says it wont pay for unattended personal belongings. 
Unattended is defined in the policy as Any property that you cant clearly see and 
where you cant stop it being taken without your permission, unless it is in a locked 
room or safe.
The policy also says it wont cover valuables which are not kept: with the insured; in a 
locked safety deposit box; stored in a safe; or hidden from view in locked personal 
accommodation (where there is no safety deposit box available). 
As the jewellery, watches and mobile phones were unattended when they went 
missing, and werent in any of the above listed places, Im satisfied that UKI was 
entitled to turn down that aspect of Mr Ls claim.
The policy also provides cover for lost or stolen money during a trip (up to £500). 
However, the policy says it wont cover money which is not kept: with the insured; in 
a locked safety deposit box; stored in a safe; or hidden from view in locked personal 
accommodation (where there is no safety deposit box available).
As the money wasnt kept in any of the above places, Im satisfied that UKI was 
entitled to turn down that aspect of Mr Ls claim.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman