DRN-3012905
The complaint
Ms R has complained that Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.Tv (CPG) lent 
to her irresponsibly and has also treated her unfairly in other ways. 
What happened
Ms R was given a loan of £3,000 by CPG in November 2017.  This was due to be repaid in 
36 monthly instalments of around £293. The total amount payable, including interest, was 
just over £10,582. The loan was secured against a vehicle that Ms R owned.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. He didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint against 
CPG. Ms R didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Ms Rs complaint.
There are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did CPG complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time?
Did CPG act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
CPG needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Ms R irresponsibly. This 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks before it lent to Ms R to satisfy 
itself that she could repay the loan in a sustainable way. The lender was required to carry 
out a borrower focussed assessment - sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, 
the repayment amounts and Ms Rs income and expenditure. But there was no set list of 
checks CPG had to do.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough: 
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
CPG carried out some checks before it provided the loan to Ms R. This included asking for 
details of her income and expenditure, payslips, and bank statements. CPG says it was not 
its practice at the time to carry out credit checks when assessing loan applications. 
Ive seen a summary of the information gathered by CPG, including the pay slips, application 
form and bank statements Ms R provided to CPG at the time.  
CPG thinks that the checks it carried out before it agreed to lend to Ms R were reasonable 
and proportionate, and that the loan was affordable for her. On the face of it, given the 
information that Ms M provided, it would seem that she had sufficient disposable income to 
afford the loan. And I dont think the bank statement that Ms R provided ought reasonably to 
have caused CPG any additional concerns about her financial position. 
But Ms R was applying to CPG for a costly loan, repayable over an extended period. I think 
CPG was aware that Ms R had a second bank account, from which the loan repayments 
would be made. But it doesnt appear to have looked into this account. CPG appears to have 
relied heavily on what Ms R told it about her regular expenses  without further verification of 
her monthly expenditure or querying the expenditure declared on her loan application form. 
Ms R did not declare any expenditure for rent, mortgage, household bills, telephone, child-
care, clothes, or any creditors  yet she appeared to have the need to take a costly loan 
repayable over three years.
I think in the circumstances, CPG ought reasonably to have realised that for its
checks for this particular customer to be reasonable and proportionate, it needed a thorough 
understanding of her current financial situation - to ensure that she could sustainably repay 
her loan over the whole loan term. 
So I think CPG should have gone further on this occasion and carried out more in-depth 
checks to establish Ms Rs true financial position  for example by asking to see bank 
statements from the account which she intended to use to repay her loan.
However, from the evidence Ive seen, its not clear to me whether better checks by CPG 
would have uncovered anything that would have shown that Ms R might have difficulty 
repaying her loan sustainably. 
Ms R has told us that she was struggling financially. She was asked to provide bank 
statements from her second bank account by this Service, but she hasnt been able to do so 
and the deadline to provide this information passed some time ago. 
Ms R has provided information from her own credit report to us and a list of creditors. This 
includes a number of accounts that defaulted after she had taken the loan, as well as some 
defaults prior to taking the account. However, generally, the information a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender might only see a portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. New credit commitments can take some 
time to appear on a credit report and so dont always appear in any reasonable and 
proportionate checks that are carried out at the time. In any event, CPG has confirmed it was not its usual practice to carry out credit checks at 
the time and as Ive previously explained, there was no set list of checks that CPG had to do. 
Its possible that CPG might have become aware that Ms R had regular commitments to 
other creditors that she hadnt disclosed on her application form if it had carried out more in-
depth checks and requested further bank statements. But Ms R hasnt been able to provide 
statements from her second account, so I cant say if this is likely to have been the case, or 
whether this information ought reasonably and fairly to have led CPG to make a different 
decision about lending to Ms R. 
So although I think CPG should have done more to check Ms Rs true financial position 
before it agreed to lend to her, I cant fairly say that better checks ought reasonably to have 
led CPG to conclude that it shouldnt lend to Ms R or that to do so would be irresponsible or 
unfair. I cant fairly say that CPG lent to Ms R irresponsibly.
Did CPG treat Ms R unfairly in some other way?
I understand that CPG made attempts to repossess Ms Rs vehicle because she was unable 
to maintain her loan repayments.
Ms R acknowledges that she did receive a default notice from CPG, but she says that 
repossession was stayed when she was able to make some repayments on her loan. She is 
unhappy that CPG subsequently attempted to repossess her vehicle without further 
warnings being given. Ms R is also unhappy about how she says CPG has treated her since 
it was made aware she was struggling to repay her loan. CPG says it has shown 
forbearance to Ms R and tried to work with her to find a reasonable resolution.
From what Ive seen, I think Ms R was made aware when she took the loan, and later by the 
default notice served, that if she did not maintain repayments on her loan the lender might 
repossess her vehicle, as it was security for the lending. Ms R says CPG has not accepted 
her offer of reduced payments, but I can see that the lender did offer to remove the interest 
accrued on the repayment arrears and it asked for Ms Rs reasonable proposals about a 
revised repayments schedule. Ms R says she was vulnerable when she took the loan and 
didnt realise what she was doing at the time. I am sorry that Ms R has found herself in 
difficult circumstances but I havent seen anything to suggest that she made CPG aware that 
she might be a vulnerable customer when she applied for her loan and I think its likely she 
was aware at the time that she was taking a high cost loan and the implications of this. 
I appreciate from what Ms R has told us that she now finds herself in a very difficult financial 
position.  However, I cant fairly say that I think CPG has treated Ms R unreasonably or 
unfairly. If Ms Rs loan is still outstanding, I would expect CPG to continue to be mindful of its 
obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically and to try to arrange a repayment plan 
that is affordable for Ms R, in her present circumstances. 
I know Ms R will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure her I have 
carefully considered everything that both she and CPG have told us and all the evidence that 
has been provided, including all the points she has raised with this Service. If I havent 
referred to all the issues that Ms R has raised it is because I have focussed in my decision 
on those matters which I consider to be material. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything which makes me think that CPG treated Ms R unfairly in any 
other way. And Ive not seen enough evidence for me to say that I think its likely that, if CPG 
had carried out better checks when Ms R applied for the loan, it ought reasonably to have 
come to the conclusion that it was inappropriate to lend to her. Having considered everything 
very carefully, I am not upholding Ms Rs complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Christian Paul Gachet trading as Easylogbookloans.Tv. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman