DRN-1922514
 
The complaint
Mr M says MYJAR Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M had two instalment loans with MYJAR. The first loan for £350 in January 2017 and 
then a second loan for £1,250 in August 2017.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr M asked 
that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Before lending to Mr M, MYJAR asked him for some information about his income and 
expenditure. For both loans Mr M said his income was £2,100 per month. Mr M said his 
expenditure included housing costs of £500 for loan 1 and £400 for loan 2. He also said he 
had credit commitments of £300 when applying for loan 1 and £450 for loan 2. MYJAR also 
carried out a credit history check and this doesnt appear to have suggested Mr M was 
currently in financial difficulty.
I think MYJARs checks were proportionate for loan 1. For loan 2, given the significant 
increase in borrowing and the increase in the term of the loan, I think MYJARs checks could 
have gone further  in particular, I think it probably wouldve been proportionate to take a 
more detailed look at his typical monthly expenditure. But Ive not seen any evidence from 
Mr M which would suggest more detailed checks wouldve likely shown loan 2 was 
unaffordable.
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ms complaint about these loans.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint against MYJAR Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman