DRN-4433938
The complaint
Mrs E is unhappy with the way in which Legal and General Assurance Society Limited 
handled a claim made for the critical illness benefit under a decreasing life and critical illness 
insurance policy (the policy). And its later decision to decline the critical illness claim and 
void the policy.
Although Mrs E is being represented in this complaint, Ive referred to her throughout as 
shes the policyholder named on the policy booklet.
What happened
Mrs E applied for the policy in late 2020 via an insurance intermediary. When applying for 
the policy she was asked a number of questions  including about her health and medical 
history. 
Towards the end of 2021, Mrs E made a claim on the policy for the critical illness benefit as 
she was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis (MS). Legal and General declined the claim in 
2023. Thats because Mrs E had experienced numbness, pins and needles and dizziness 
which, Legal and General says, werent adequately disclosed when applying for the policy. It 
also voided the policy (including life insurance cover) but did refund Mrs E for the premiums 
shed paid for the policy.
Mrs E complained to Legal and General. It maintained its decision to decline the claim and 
void the policy. However, it did accept that it delayed refunding the premiums as it 
mistakenly believed that this was a joint policy. It paid Mrs E £250 compensation. This was 
on top of £300 it paid Mrs E for delays in handling the claim since July 2022.
Unhappy, Mrs E asked the Financial Ombudsman Service to look into her concerns. Our 
investigator considered what had happened and didnt think Legal and General had to do 
anything more to put things right. So, she didnt uphold Mrs Es complaint. Mrs E disagreed 
so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer (in this case Legal and General) has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. 
Legal and General says Mrs E failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when answering a medical question about whether (in the last 5 years) 
shed seen a doctor, nurse or other medical professional for numbness, persistent tingling, 
pins and needles or dizziness.  
I know Mrs E will be very disappointed and I have a lot of empathy for her situation. But Im 
satisfied Legal and General has acted fairly and reasonably by declining her claim for the 
critical illness benefit and voiding the policy. Ive set out my reasons below. 
Did Mrs E make qualifying misrepresentation?
When applying for the policy, Mrs E was a number of questions about her medical history 
including: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
paralysis, numbness, persistent tingling, pins and needles, memory loss, dizziness, 
balance problems, tremors or facial pain (other than dental pain)?
Im satisfied that this is a clear question and Ill refer to it as the medical question. The 
application reflects that Mrs E answered no to this question.
When reviewing Mrs Es claim, Legal and General concluded that shed answered the 
medical question incorrectly. She shouldve have answered it yes. Im satisfied that this was 
fair and reasonable. Thats because:
The claims targeted report completed by Mrs Es GP in November 2021 contains the 
question: when did your patient first seek advice for their condition/presenting 
symptoms and how long had the symptoms been present before seeking advice? 
The GP answers: first presented2019...pins and needles left foot, left buttock 
numb. MRI lumbar spine arranged. MRI2019. Referred to neurology based on 
results
The consultant neurologists report dated January 2020 reflects Mrs E mentioned left 
hand tingling in the last month. And in April 2020, the consultant neurologist reports 
that the numbness in Mrs Es arms had got better since the last couple of months. 
At a review with her consultant neurologist in May 2020, its reflected that Mrs E 
continues to have a different sensation in her right hand now, previously she had left 
arm altered sensation. 
The consultants neurologist letter dated April 2021 confirming the diagnosis of MS 
reflects Mrs E had some dizziness. This lasted for about seven days in total.  A 
letter dated 19 November 2020 from Mrs Es consultant neurologist reflects that Mrs 
E had recent transient vertigo (in) September 2020. Shed been admitted to hospital 
presenting with dizziness for four days when lying down or getting out of bed.
Ive gone on to consider whether Legal and General has fairly concluded that Mrs E had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA by answering the medical question 
incorrectly. And Im satisfied it has. Ive listened to the call Mrs E and her wife had with the insurance intermediary when 
applying for the policy. She does mention some tingling in her back. Theres also a comment 
that the pins and needles wasnt persistent. 
When considering whether Mrs E made a qualifying disclosure, Legal and General asked 
Mrs E why she answered the medical question in that way that she did. The call note dated 
30 June 2022 reflects that Legal and General didnt receive a specific reply because Mrs E 
didnt want to discuss without legal input. Legal and General also spoke with Mrs E in 
September 2022 and its reflected that she wanted Legal and General to listen to the sales 
call. Subsequently, Mrs E did email Legal and General with a transcript of the relevant parts 
of the call with the insurance intermediatory that she thought was relevant.
I asked our investigator to contact Mrs E to ask why she didnt declare the dizziness which 
she attended hospital for in the two months leading up to when she applied for the policy.
She said at that point she hadnt yet been diagnosed with MS and the dizziness had been 
diagnosed by the doctor as vertigo which is an unrelated symptom of MS. She was advised 
to go to hospital as she was under investigation at this stage and no matter what the 
symptoms were, she was asked to visit her consultant instead of her GP. 
So, even if I concluded that Mrs E had taken reasonable care in the way she answered 
questions about seeing a doctor, nurse or other health professional about numbness, 
persistent tingling and pins and needles during the last 5 years, Im satisfied that she didnt 
take reasonable care when not disclosing her dizziness.  
Mrs E may not have known the reasons for the dizziness, or that it was connected to MS at 
the time. But ultimately, she had experienced and sought medical attention for the symptoms 
being asked about in the application. 
I dont think it was reasonable of Mrs E to have overlooked the symptoms shed experienced 
in the circumstances of this case, particularly given the time between the dizziness occurring 
and the date of applying for the policy. 
Legal and General has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mrs E had answered 
this question correctly, it would have offered the policy on different terms. It wouldve 
declined to offer critical illness cover at that time and the life cover wouldve been more 
expensive. So, the answer to this question mattered to Legal and General.
Declining the claim and cancelling the policy
Legal and General concluded that Mrs Es misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. 
Taking into account Mrs Es explanation about why she answered question in the way she 
did, when considered against the medical evidence, I dont think shes been able to give a 
credible explanation supported by the facts for the misrepresentation having occurred 
(particularly in relation to the dizziness part of the medical question). Nor do I think there are 
any reasonably credible mitigating circumstances to explain why she answered the medical 
question in the way that she did. 
Im satisfied that Legal and General has fairly concluded that Mrs Es misrepresentation was 
deliberately or recklessly made. And as the question was asked before agreeing to insure 
Mrs E, I think she knew that the questions being asked were relevant to Legal and General  
or didnt take sufficient care about whether or not it was relevant to Legal and General.Ive looked at the actions Legal and General can take in line with CIDRA. Under this 
legislation its entitled to cancel the policy and doesnt have to pay any claims as it can treat 
the policy as if it never existed. Thats what Legal and General has done here, and I dont 
think its acted unfairly and unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by doing so. 
Legal and General could have also chosen to keep the premiums paid for the policy. It didnt 
do that here; it reimbursed Mrs E for the monthly premiums shed paid for the policy since 
the date it started. I think Legal and General acted fairly by doing this. 
Delays
Legal and General has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. It accepts that 
there were times when it unreasonably delayed assessing Mrs Es claim and progressing it 
as quickly as it should have. This led to Mrs E having to chase Legal and General for 
updates, not receiving call backs as requested and not having all of her emails responded to. 
Legal and General apologised and offered Mrs E £300 compensation in recognition of the 
delays since July 2022 (the date of a final response letter about delays up until that point 
which doesnt form part of the complaint Im deciding). It accepts that Mrs E shouldve been 
more proactively contacted with updates.
I can see that this was a worrying time for Mrs E, which would have been exacerbated by the 
delays caused by Legal and General and Mrs E having to chase it up. But I think £300 fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
Legal and General has also paid Mrs E further compensation in the sum of £250 to 
represent delays in refunding her the monthly premiums she paid for the policy. I think thats 
reasonable and fairly reflects the upset the delays caused. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman