DRN-2741144
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down an accidental death claim 
made by the estate of Mr W under an accidental death insurance policy.
Mrs W is represented by Mr N.
What happened
The late Mr W held an accidental death insurance policy. In October 2019, Mr W suffered a 
fall at home and was admitted to hospital. He underwent a CT scan. The hospital noted that 
Mr W suffered from cardiac cirrhosis and stopped one of the medications he took. He was 
also noted to suffer from Acute Kidney Injury (AKI). The hospital additionally found that Mr W 
suffered from mobility issues and so he was transferred into a rehabilitation unit for 
treatment. While Mr W was an inpatient at the hospital, he had a second fall, although this 
wasnt witnessed by the hospital staff. Mr W was discharged from hospital, but was 
readmitted in November 2019, suffering from cardiac cirrhosis. And sadly, on 26 December 
2019, he passed away due to cardiac failure. 
Mr N made a claim on Mr Ws accidental death insurance policy on behalf of Mr Ws estate. 
Mr N and Mrs W considered that Mr Ws death was caused by the initial fall hed suffered in 
October 2019 and by the consequent stopping of his medication.
Aviva considered the available medical evidence. It noted that Mr Ws death certificate 
stated that the direct cause of his death had been aspiration pneumonia. It also listed a 
number of contributory causes, including cardiac cirrhosis, cardiac failure and acute kidney 
disease. The policy only covers accidental death which is directly caused by an accident. So 
Aviva asked Mr Ws GP to confirm whether his death had been directly related to his fall. 
The GP wasnt able to do so, although he did suggest there was every possibility that the 
deterioration in Mr Ws function after the fall may have been a contributory factor to his 
deterioration and death. Based on the available medical evidence, Aviva didnt think Mr Ws 
death was directly related to his fall. So it turned down his claim.
Mrs W and Mr N were unhappy with Avivas decision and so they asked us to look into this 
complaint on behalf of Mr Ws estate.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy made it clear 
that while accidental death claims would be covered; claims which were due to illness or 
injury wouldnt be. She didnt think the available medical evidence suggested Mr Ws fall in 
October 2019 had been the direct cause of his death. So she thought it was fair for Aviva to 
rely on the medical evidence to turn down Mr Ws estates claim.
Mrs W and Mr N disagreed. They maintained that Mr Ws fall had been the cause of his 
death. They said that while this wasnt stated on his death certificate, they felt Aviva had a 
moral responsibility to pay the claim based on the number of years Mr W had paid premiums 
to it. They considered Aviva was relying on technicalities not to pay the claim and werent 
looking at the bigger picture.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs W and Mr N, I think it was fair for Aviva to 
turn down the estates claim. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mrs W and Mr N for the sad loss of Mr W. I 
dont doubt how difficult and upsetting bringing this complaint mustve been for them. Its 
also important that I make clear that my role isnt to decide what caused Mr Ws death. My 
role is to consider all of the evidence to decide whether it was reasonable for Aviva to 
conclude that this claim wasnt covered.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr Ws policy and the available medical evidence to decide whether Aviva treated 
the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of Mr Ws policy, as this formed the basis of his contract with 
Aviva. The policy says: If an insured person suffers an accident that directly results in their 
death this insurance will pay a lump sum benefit to their estate.
Aviva has defined what it means by an accident. The policy sets out this definition as: a 
single, unexpected, unforeseen and unintentional incident which is not a symptom of disease 
or illness.
The policy also sets out the things that Aviva doesnt cover. It states: This insurance is not a 
life, healthcare or income protection insurance policy. It does not provide cover in the event
of death caused by illness or disease.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ws initial fall in October 2019 was an accident, as defined by the 
policy terms. But in order for this claim to be valid, Aviva needs to be satisfied that Mr Ws 
fall directly resulted in his death. Based on the medical evidence its seen, it doesnt think 
this was the case. So Ive carefully considered all of the available medical evidence to 
decide whether this was a fair conclusion for Aviva to draw.
First, Ive considered Mr Ws death certificate which sets out what was considered to be Mr 
Ws cause of death. The direct cause of death is listed as aspiration pneumonia. Part two of 
Mr Ws death certificate sets out causes which contributed to his death. These are listed as: 
cardiac cirrhosis, diastolic heart failure; chronic kidney disease; diabetes mellitus and 
hypoglycaemia. Theres no mention on the death certificate of Mr Ws fall or the injuries he 
sustained being the cause of or linked to the cause of his death. So I dont think it was unfair 
for Aviva to conclude that the medical practitioner who certified Mr Ws death didnt consider 
his death was caused accidentally.
Aviva also considered the medical evidence from the time of Mr Ws admission and follow-up 
evidence from his GP. I think it was appropriate for Aviva to review this evidence when 
assessing this claim. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws medical records relating to his admission in 
October 2019. It seems he suffered a head contusion and a cut to his arm. He underwent a 
CT scan to check for a serious head injury, but no intra-cranial injuries were found. The 
treating hospital noted that Mr W suffered from a number of other medical conditions and he 
underwent treatment for some of these while he was an inpatient. The notes say: this is a slow decline and theres not much to correct medically. While Mr W was moved into 
rehabilitation to help him with his mobility following the accident, it doesnt appear that the 
hospital considered the injuries he suffered in the fall to be very serious, or life threatening. 
Instead, I think the notes are more suggestive that Mr Ws health was already in a state of 
decline when he had the fall.
Mrs W and Mr N say that Mr W had a second fall while he was in hospital  and I agree that 
the notes state that Mr W had an unwitnessed fall on the ward. The records show that Mr W 
suffered a laceration to his forehead and a cut on the bridge of his nose. Mrs W and Mr N 
say that Mr W didnt receive a scan following this fall and it would seem this was the case. 
But theres no suggestion from the medical records that the treating doctors considered this 
fall had caused serious or life-threatening injuries. And its clear Mr W was discharged from 
hospital following both falls. So based on this evidence, I think Aviva was reasonably entitled 
to consider that Mr Ws death wasnt a direct result of his accident.
Aviva also got in touch with Mr Ws treating doctor and his GP to ask for further information. I 
think this was a reasonable and sensible approach for Aviva to take. The consultant couldnt 
provide a comment on Mr Ws cause of death but stated that he clearly had a lot of serious 
health issues. Avivas notes set out Mr Ws GPs response. The GP: is unable to confirm 
that Mr Ws death was directly related to his original fall that happened back in October 
2019, however there is every possibility that the deterioration in his overall function following 
his fall could have been a significant contributory factor to his deterioration and his death, 
with evidence of worsening cognition along with mobility issues.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr Ws GP said. Its clear he thought there was a possibility 
that his original fall couldve contributed to Mr Ws deterioration and death. But the GP 
couldnt point to a direct link between Mr Ws fall and his sad death. And the medical 
evidence doesnt show the accident was directly related to his death, instead it states that Mr 
Ws death was down to illness. So I think Aviva considered this claim fairly. And based on 
the available medical evidence, I dont think Aviva acted unfairly by turning down this claim.
Mrs W and Mr N have suggested they may ask the coroner to amend Mr Ws death 
certificate to reflect that they believe his death was caused by the fall. Its open to them to try 
and do this if they wish to do so. They may then pass any amended certificate onto Aviva for 
it to consider. If theyre unhappy with any further assessment of this claim, they may be able 
to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman