DRN-3408103
The complaint
Mr D complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) says his old central heating boiler 
was beyond economic repair and has only offered to pay him £250 towards the cost of a 
replacement under his home emergency insurance policy.
References to IPA include the agents it used in connection with Mr Ds claim.
What happened
Mr D notified IPA of a problem with his boiler in August 2021. IPA says it engineer reported a 
fault with the pump and heat plate exchanger. I understand the engineer told Mr D it would 
cost over £1,000 to repair his boiler and meant it was beyond economic repair under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
Mr D has complained to IPA about this. He says IPAs engineer just googled the fault code 
the boiler was showing, did no investigation work on it and then wrote it off. And he doesnt 
think IPAs offer to pay him £250 towards the cost of a new boiler is fair.
IPA didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint and so he brought it to us. The investigator who looked at 
it didnt think IPA had acted unfairly in relying on the findings of its engineer that the boiler 
was beyond economic repair. And he thought IPAs offer of £250 was in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ds policy.
Mr D disagrees. He reiterates that the engineer who came to look at the breakdown did no 
work on the boiler and didnt investigate the error code.
Mr D has also complained to us about how his boiler was serviced over the years. For the 
avoidance of doubt, my decision here is only about his complaint about his claim following 
the boiler breakdown.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer IPA has made of £250 to settle Mr Ds claim is fair. I know 
this will disappoint Mr D but I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
Mr Ds home emergency insurance policy includes cover for his main heating system and for 
the repair or replacement of his boiler. It says if, in IPAs opinion, Mr Ds boiler is beyond 
economic repair, it will contribute a maximum of £250 towards the cost of Mr D replacing it 
with a new boiler. It says the boiler is beyond economic repair where the cost of repairs 
exceeds the current value of Mr Ds boiler, taking into consideration its age and condition, or 
where spare parts arent readily available. Mr Ds policy also says Mr D can get the £250 
contribution if he gives IPA a copy of his receipt for the replacement boiler within 60 days of 
the call out.
As Ive noted, IPA says its engineer reported a fault with the pump and heat plate exchanger 
on Mr Ds boiler that made it beyond economic repair. Mr D disputes this. Again, as Ive 
noted, Mr D doesnt think IPAs engineer carried out a proper investigation of the boiler 
breakdown. Mr D also told our investigator that the engineer who fitted the new boiler didnt 
see why the old one couldnt be repaired.
My role isnt to decide if Mr Ds boiler was beyond economic repair. Its to decide if IPA has 
acted fairly and reasonably in declaring it as such. Mr D hasnt given us any expert evidence 
from an engineer to support his view that IPAs decision was wrong. Mr D has told our 
investigator he didnt do this because it was hard to get an engineer out at the end of a 
Covid lockdown and there was a four or five week wait for an appointment. Mr D also didnt 
get a written report from the engineer who, when fitting his new boiler, told him he saw no 
reason why the old one couldnt be repaired.
Because Mr D hasnt got his own expert evidence, theres very little to suggest IPAs 
engineers findings were unfair and unreasonable. Mr D isnt an expert and so, while Ive 
considered what hes said carefully, it isnt enough for me to conclude IPA has acted unfairly 
and unreasonably in relying on its experts findings that his boiler was beyond economic 
repair. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy where a boiler is beyond economic repair are 
clear. The most IPA is required to contribute to the cost of a replacement boiler is the 
amount it has already offered Mr D  which is £250. I attach to this decision a copy of the 
invoice Mr D has sent us for the installation of the new boiler, which I understand IPA has 
asked to see before it makes the payment of £250.
My final decision
Inter Partner Assistance SA has offered to pay Mr D £250 to settle his complaint and I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay Mr D £250.
Inter Partner Assistance SA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr D accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.*
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman