DRN-3075436
The complaint
Mr P complains about the poor repairs and service he experienced, following a claim under 
his home emergency policy with AWP P&C SA (AWP).
 
What happened
Mr P boiler broke down and he contacted AWP. It accepted the claim and sent an engineer 
who carried out an initial inspection. He found that both a pump motor and pressure relief 
valve (PRV) needed to be replaced. A leak was found that led to the expansion vessel to fail. 
The engineer later returned and replaced the pump but not the PRV. He was unable to get 
the boiler working due to an electrical fault and advised that an electrical engineer was 
required. There was still a leak coming from the overflow pipe which wasnt fixed. 
Mr P noticed water stains as a of the leak. The leak wasnt stopped until a few days later by 
which time, Mr P said that several of his possessions became damaged. 
AWP sent another engineer to carry out the electrical repairs on the boiler, but he was 
unsuccessful in restoring power to the boiler. A few faults were noted such as the filling loop 
being partially open which caused a build-up of pressure. The auto air vent, expansion 
vessel and PRV were not working. So, AWP sent another engineer. 
He noted that the motor pump had been incorrectly wired and this had caused the electrical 
issue which in turn caused a leak. This engineer didnt get the boiler to completely work and 
another engineer was sent. That engineer deemed the boiler beyond economical repair 
(BER). 
Mr P said that he had been without heating, hot and cold water for several days. He had to 
purchase alternative heating costing £91.46 to keep his family warm and ultimately had to 
buy a new boiler. 
He said that AWP were responsible for causing additional damage to his boiler, due to the 
poor workmanship it carried out. So, he raised a complaint to AWP to recover his costs of 
the supply and install of the new boiler, a smart thermostat and an additional radiator, the 
total cost of which was £3,750. He also wanted AWP to pay for the damage caused to his 
property and possessions.
Following some delay, AWP accepted that aspects of its customer service was poor. It said 
that it was unable to cover the cost of the replacement boiler, the damage to the property 
and his possessions, as these werent covered under the policy. It offered to reimburse Mr 
Ps additional heater that he had to buy as well as offering £450 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Mr P accepted the offer but only as an initial payment of what he wanted AWP to pay. But to 
date, AWP has not paid this. Consequently, Mr P referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. His view 
was that Mr P had upgraded to an enhanced boiler and smart thermostat that wasnt a like 
for like replacement, so he assessed that a like for like replacement wouldve cost around 
£1,500. He recommended that AWP pay £1,500 towards the cost of the boiler. An increased 
compensation award of £600 for the trouble and upset caused, as well as £300 for the 
damage to Mr Ps property.
AWP didnt respond to the view. Mr P did. He said that a like for like replacement boiler 
wouldve cost him around £2,500 and that the £300 for the damage to his property wasnt 
enough, due to the level of damage. So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I uphold this complaint, for the following reasons: 
AWP was asked to provide its response to our investigators view and any further 
evidence, but no response has been received. Mr P has provided a consistent 
account of the events that happened. In this case, despite the lack of response from 
AWP, I find I can decide on this complaint and I think it fair that Mr P has a resolution 
to the issues he raised, despite the lack of engagement from AWP.
AWP appear to have accepted that its customer service fell well below the standard 
that it wouldve liked. Although, having reviewed the final response, this appears to 
provide little detail on the specific areas of customer service that AWP was 
unsuccessful in. 
However, Im satisfied that AWP caused damage to Mr Ps boiler and in turn the leak 
that happened caused damage to his ceiling and property. I agree with our 
investigator that the boiler and heating system that Mr P installed (once his boiler had 
been deemed BER) was a significant upgraded system. 
Taking all this information into consideration, I think that it would be unfair for AWP to 
reimburse the full cost of the new boiler for two main reasons. Firstly, the boiler was 
in excess of 10 years old and its likely that it would need to be changed. Secondly, I 
have researched the costs of purchasing and installing a system boiler (which 
wouldve been a like for like boiler replacement for Mr Ps old boiler) and it costs 
£2,000. Mr P also provided evidence of the cost of a new boiler excluding fitting of 
£1,050. So, I think its fair that AWP reimburse £2,000 towards the cost of the new 
boiler Mr P installed. 
Im satisfied that the damage caused to the ceiling and property were as a result of 
the leak from the boiler. Mr P has provided quotations and costings to replace the 
affected ceiling and possessions. Given that AWP accepted its poor service, I think 
its fair that it pays for the costs to repair the ceiling and the damage property of 
£1,388.96. 
AWP has already agreed to refund Mr P the cost of the extra heater that he 
purchased of £91.46, that Mr P said he hasnt yet received. AWP were invited to provide comments about the proposed resolution, but no 
response was received. 
Finally, given the poor level of service that Mr P experienced, I agree with our investigator 
that AWP ought to pay compensation of £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
 
Putting things right
I direct AWP P & C SA to put things right as I set out below. 
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
To put matters right, AWP P&C SA ought to pay:
£2,000 towards the cost of Mr Ps replacement boiler
£1,388.96 towards the cost of repairs to his ceiling and property. 
£600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
£91.46 for the cost of the temporary heater.
AWP P&C SA must pay the above amounts within 28 days of the date on which we
tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman