DRN-3028455
The complaint
Ms E complains that Aviva failed to help her when she experienced two leaks at her home.
She wants Aviva to pay her compensation for her lost work time, to reimburse her for the
costs of a handyman she had to engage, and to pay for the damage to her home, which she
feels was made worse by Avivas delay.
Ms E has held home emergency insurance for several years. Her cover is underwritten by
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) and administered through a third-party company, H. Since
H was acting as agent for Aviva, in this decision I will describe all actions by H as being the
actions of Aviva. 
What happened
In late August 2020, a hot water pipe burst in Ms Es bathroom. She isolated the water
supply, but the leak continued. She tried to contact Aviva but was on hold for a long period
so she ended the call.
Ms E then contacted a local handyman to attend her home to fix the leak. In the meantime,
water had penetrated the kitchen below and had soaked the electrics.
She called Aviva again and this time was able to speak with an electrical engineer who
talked her through shutting off the electricity in the downstairs of her home so that it could
dry out.
Aviva booked an appointment to attend Ms Es home 2 days later to inspect the pipe and
electrics.
On the date of the appointment, Ms E waited for Aviva but no one attended. Aviva did not
make contact with Ms E to say it would not be attending.
Ms E then called out a handyman to look at the electrics. 
Two days later, Ms E experienced another leak in the bathroom, this time from the cold
water pipe. Ms E called Aviva and was again on hold for more than an hour, unable to speak
to anyone.
Ms E called out a handyman again and he repaired the leak. This leak had caused further
damage to the room below.
Ms E lost faith in Aviva and cancelled her direct debit.
Aviva contacted Ms E around two weeks later to find out what had happened. Ms E
submitted a complaint about the service she had received.
Aviva sent holding letters to Ms E but did not respond to her complaint within 8 weeks. Ms E 
therefore referred her complaint to us.
Aviva sent Ms E its final response to her complaint in December 2020. Aviva asked her to
forward the invoices for the handyman callouts for it to consider reimbursement. Aviva also
offered Ms E £100 compensation for the failed appointments and being unable to contact
Aviva. Aviva rejected Ms Es request for Aviva to cover the damage sustained to her home
as it considered that this was caused by the leak, rather than by Aviva.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and upheld Ms Es complaint. She felt that Aviva
had provided a poor service in not answering Ms Es calls, and not attending the
appointment it had made to look at the pipes and electrics. She felt that Aviva ought to
reimburse the costs of the handyman, as evidenced by an invoice (or if no evidence was
available of Ms Es costs, should pay the cost it would have spent on sending an engineer
out to Ms E). The investigator also considered that Aviva should pay to Ms E £150
compensation to reflect the poor customer service she received.
Ms E is unable to obtain invoices from the handyman and Aviva has explained that it would
pay its own contractors around £50 per call out. Aviva has therefore paid around £100 to Ms
E to reflect the costs she incurred of two handyman callouts.
Ms E did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. Ms E said that the 
reimbursement made by Aviva falls far short of the costs she incurred, which was closer
to £150 per call out, on three occasions. She also explains that she was prevented from
working while the electrics were switched off in her home awaiting inspection. 
I issued a provisional decision in relation to this complaint in June 2021. In that provisional 
view I explained that I agreed with the assessment of the investigator, but that I thought that 
Aviva ought to also refund Ms Es premiums to her for the year when her issues arose as I 
did not consider that she had experienced any real benefit from the cover. 
That decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to provide 
comments and evidence in response. 
Ms E has responded, accepting the majority of my decision, and also giving details of a third 
handyman call out, which she commissioned after Aviva did not attend for her booked 
appointment. 
Aviva has responded, initially querying the period of premium refund, and then disagreeing 
with my provisional decision. Aviva argues that Ms E has derived benefit from the cover 
because it has paid her the equivalent cost it would have paid if it had provided engineers to 
attend Ms Es home when she called. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful for Ms E correcting my understanding and giving details of the additional 
handyman call out. 
I understand Avivas objection to my provisional decision, but I remain of the view that there 
was minimal benefit to the policy cover. 
The cover ought to have provided a helpful response when needed, and peace of mind. I 
accept that Aviva has agreed to pay Ms E around £49 for each occasion she called out a 
handyman (although Aviva has currently only refunded two call outs), and as I set out before, Ms E was provided with a video call to help her turn off her electrics.
I do not agree that these reimbursement payments are benefits under Ms Es policy. These 
payments are being paid as compensatory payments after Aviva failed to provide the service 
offered by the policy, and they were not calculated under the terms of the policy cover.  The 
fact that they have arisen as a consequence of Ms E having a contractual relationship with 
Avivia does not mean that these payments were a benefit or outcome of the policy operating. 
Putting things right
For these reasons, I remain of the view that Ms Es complaint should be upheld and Aviva 
ought to do more to compensate Ms E. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision, with the 
exception of correcting that Ms E had three handyman call outs which should be 
compensated, rather than two as I previously understood. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Es decision and 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Refund to Ms E her premiums paid for the insurance period from her renewal in 
February 2020, up until she cancelled her agreement;
Reimburse Ms E for her costs incurred in engaging a handyman. If costs cannot be 
evidenced, then Aviva ought to pay to Ms E the cost it would have paid to its 
engineers to attend three call outs; and
To pay to Ms E £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman