DRN-4376979
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2023, Mr P was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI. He paid a deposit of £300, was given a part-exchange allowance of £72.22, and 
the agreement was for £13,707.78 over 60 months; with 59 monthly payments of £287.73 
and a final payment of £288.18. The agreement also included two additional products loans 
totalling £438. At the time of supply, the car was almost six years old, and had done 79,098 
miles.
The car was supplied by a dealership Ill call B but was sent to another dealership in the 
same group, whom Ill refer to as D, which was nearer to Mr Ps home, for collection. When 
Mr P arrived at D to collect the car, he raised an issue about scratches on the bonnet and 
other body panels. He said that D arranged for him to return the car at a later date for the 
damage to be resolved.
After collecting the car, Mr P found further issues with worn tyres and the rear windscreen 
washer not working. He also said that there was no evidence provided that B had replaced 
the timing belt and water pump as agreed, and that the car was still dirty inside, despite him 
having paid for a full valet. He contacted B on 23 February and 2 March 2023 about this.
B arranged for the car to be inspected at Ds premises, and this inspection took place on 11 
March 2023. The inspection confirmed that one tyre, the rear washer system, and a front 
wheel arch needed replacing. B offered to replace the existing worn tyre (a premium brand) 
with a new budget brand tyre, but Mr P was unhappy with this. He wanted two tyres 
replaced, on a like-for-like basis, and he was unhappy that the issues with the car hadnt 
been identified when B had an MOT done, just before the car was supplied to Mr P.
After several unsuccessful attempts to resolve matters with B, Mr P complained to RCI. 
Following this, B agreed to replace two tyres, but Mr P received no further contact about the 
other issues with the car. RCI didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, because B denied the car had 
ever been inspected. So, Mr P brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
for investigation.
Our investigator said the evidence, which included a further inspection that had taken place 
on 8 August 2023, showed there were faults with the car. And he thought the issues with the 
tyres, paintwork, and wheel arch were present or developing when the car was supplied to 
Mr P. Which made the car of an unsatisfactory quality.
Because of the issues with the car, and the delays in repairs being arranged, the investigator 
said that Mr P should now be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund of the deposit he 
paid. The investigator also said that RCI should refund Mr Ps costs that have been incurred 
as a result of the quality issues with the car, as well as 5% of the payments hed made; plus 
an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr P agreed with the investigator, but RCI didnt respond. Because of this, this matter has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
While we were waiting for RCI to respond to the investigators view, Mr P paid out an 
additional £68.36 for a replacement tyre on the car, as one of the already worn tyres had 
further worn to the point where it was illegal for the car to be driven.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr P was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless RCI can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr P to show it was present when the car 
was supplied.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr P took possession of it, or that the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and 
reasonable to ask RCI to put this right.
I appreciate that both B and RCI have said Mr P never had the car inspected at Ds premises 
in March 2023. However, Ive seen that, on both 6 and 10 March 2023, B asked Mr P to take 
the car for inspection at D. And Ive seen an SMS message from D to Mr P, dated 11 March 
2023, which confirms your vehicle is currently going through our service process and giving 
him specific contact details. 
Ive also seen that, in an email of 3 April 2023, B agreed to replace the tyre and look into the 
rear washer not working. In emails the following day, B agreed to replace both worn tyres 
and to deal with the issues with the bodywork. On 3 May 2023, they also provided Mr P with 
the evidence of the work thatd been carried out on the timing belt.
While the report from this inspection hasnt been provided, Im nevertheless satisfied by the 
evidence Ive seen that the car was inspected by D on 11 March 2023. And the subsequent 
emails between Mr P and B show me that faults with the car were found, specifically relating to the tyres, the paintwork, and the rear windscreen washer. Its also clear from these emails 
that work was done on the timing belt just before the car was supplied to Mr P.
Ive been provided with a copy of a report on the car, dated 8 August 2023, which Mr P 
obtained at the cost of £40. This confirms the damage to the paintwork, that tyres were worn 
down to the legal limit, that the wheel arch liner was damaged beyond repair, and that the 
repairs to the timing belt had been completed with non-manufacturer aftermarket parts.
This report confirms the same issues that Mr P complained about from shortly after the car 
was supplied to him. And RCI havent provided any evidence, for example a report from an 
independent engineer, that shows me the issues with the car werent present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mr P. As such, Im satisfied that its more likely than not the 
issues were present upon supply. While Ive taken into consideration the age and mileage of 
the car, Im also satisfied that the level and nature of the damage made the car of an 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P.
Section 24(5) of the CRA says a consumer who has  the right to reject may only exercise 
[this] and may only do so in one of these situations  (a) after one repair or replacement, the 
goods do not confirm to contract. This is known as the single chance of repair. And this 
applies to all issues with the goods, and to all repairs i.e., its not a single chance of repair for 
the dealership AND a single chance of repair for RCI. 
However, section 23 of the CRA states:
If the consumer requires the trader to repair or replace the goods, the trader must 
(a) do so within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to 
the consumer
Given that, in their emails to Mr P in March 2023, B agreed to repair the car, and these 
repairs havent taken place, its arguable that RCI failed to comply with Section 23(2)(a) of 
the CRA. So, in these circumstances, Mr P should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
Mr P has been able to use the car while it was in his possession. Because of this, I think its 
only fair that he pays for this usage. However, given the issues with the car, especially the 
tyres, Im also satisfied that Mr Ps usage and enjoyment of the car has been impaired. So, I 
also think its fair that RCI refund some of the payments Mr P made. And I think 5% of the 
payments made since the car was supplied fairly reflects the impaired use caused by the car 
not being of a satisfactory quality.
The investigator also recommended that RCI refund to Mr P the extra expenses he incurred 
by being provided with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality. At the time of the 
investigators view, this was the £40 inspection cost. However, I think that this should also 
include the cost Mr P has since incurred in replacing the tyre, to ensure the car remained 
road legal.
Finally, its clear that Mr P has been inconvenienced by what has happened, and by having 
to try and get the agreed repairs resolved. So, I think RCI should compensate him for this. 
The investigator had recommended RCI pay him £200, which is in line with what I wouldve 
directed had no recommendation been made. So, I see no compelling reason not to adopt 
this as part of my final decision.
Therefore, if they havent already done so, RCI should:
end the agreements with nothing more to pay;collect the car at no cost to Mr P;
remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement from Mr Ps credit file;
refund the £372.77 deposit and part-exchange contribution Mr P paid;
refund 5% of the payments Mr P has paid,
reimburse Mr P the £108.36 hes paid for the extra expenses hes incurred, as 
detailed above;
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the refunds/reimbursements, calculated from the 
date Mr P made the payments to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr P an additional £200 to compensate him for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused by being supplied with a car that wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires RCI to take off tax from this interest. RCI must give Mr P 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ps complaint about RCI Financial Services Limited. 
And they are to follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman