DRN-3234892
The complaint
Mr Rs unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited handled his motorhome 
insurance claim.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr Rs motorhome was in a collision with a third-party. So he claimed on his 
RSA motor insurance policy. RSA instructed one of its contractors to handle the claim. For 
ease I refer to it as E. E contacted the company that sold Mr R the motorhome, with the 
intention of doing the repairs. I refer to that company as S. Mr R complained to RSA about 
that. He said he hadnt given his consent for the contact. He felt data protection rules had 
been breached. And he was unhappy with RSAs updates about the progress of his claim. 
In July 2021 RSA issued a response to Mr R. It apologised for not explaining that E would be 
dealing with part of the claim on its behalf. It paid Mr R £75 compensation for that mistake. It 
said it hadnt breached data protection rules as it had passed on his details to progress the 
claim made under his insurance policy. 
Mr R wasnt satisfied with RSAs response so came to this service. After that happened RSA 
called him to discuss his continued concerns. In August 2021 RSA issued a further 
complaint response. It responded to a number of additional issues raised by Mr R. RSA 
explained it had authorised repairs to the motorhome, but Mr R had then withdrawn his 
claim. It said the policy broker had cancelled the cover as there was, after Mr R had 
disposed of the motorhome, no vehicle to insure. RSA explained a pro-rata refund of the 
policy premium had been paid to him. 
Our investigator didnt agree RSA had acted incorrectly or unfairly by sharing information 
about Mr R with E. He felt it had acted reasonably by apologising and paying £75 
compensation for not making Mr R aware they would be using one of their contractors for the 
claim. He thought the pro-rata refund of the premium was fair. Mr R didnt accept the 
assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
Mr Rs also complained to the broker who arranged the cover. As this complaint is against 
the insurer, I havent considered any of his concerns about the brokers actions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs provided a wide range of complaint points. As this is an informal service, Ive only 
addressed here those I consider to be the most significant. However, Id like to reassure him 
and RSA that I have considered everything they have provided. 
RSA arranged for E to assess Mr Rs claim for damage to his motorhome. It seems E 
contacted the firm Mr R purchased the vehicle from  S. That seems to have been with the 
intention of it doing the repairs. Mr R say he didnt give consent for either E or S to be 
involved or contacted. So data protection rules have been breached. 
RSA says these firms were involved, and information passed to them, in pursuit of Mr Rs 
claim. His policy terms do explain that different parties may need to be involved if he makes 
a claim. Having considered everything, I cant say RSA acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
involving these firms in the way it did. Their involvement seems a reasonable and standard 
part of settling a motor insurance claim. 
It wasnt explained to Mr R that E would be involved in the claim. RSAs apologised for that 
and paid him £75 compensation. That seems fair and reasonable to me. Its enough to 
recognise the impact of the failure in communication. 
It seems the motorhome being out of use, following the collision, caused some distress to 
Mr R. I cant see that RSA caused any unnecessary delay with the claim. So I cant fairly say 
it was responsible for his experience. 
It seems the policy was cancelled by Mr Rs broker, rather than by RSA. Mr R says he didnt 
ask for the cancellation. The broker was acting on his behalf, rather than RSAs. So I cant 
consider if its action was unreasonable or unfair in this complaint against RSA.  
Having considered everything provided, including all Mr Rs complaint points, Im not going 
to require RSA to do anything further. Overall, I think its treated Mr R fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman