DRN-4088610
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Mr B has explained that his friend recommended him a company for cryptocurrency trading 
and sent him a Facebook link to an advert. Mr B completed an online form and was then 
contacted by several different investment brokers. He ended up using a broker from a 
company Ill call Z  who turned out to be fraudulent.
Here are the transactions made (and received) as part of the scam:
Date Merchant Payment Method Amount
09/02/2021 C Debit card -£250.75
16/02/2021 N Bank transfer -£2,000.00
16/02/2021 N Credit £194.87
22/02/2021 N Bank transfer -£3,000.00
02/03/2021 N Bank transfer -£10,000.00
24/03/2021 N Bank transfer -£9,435.00
24/03/2021 N Bank transfer -£2,491.00
Total loss £26,981.88
It appears C acted as a payment processor. N is a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange who 
Z directed Mr B to set up a wallet with, as a way to purchase cryptocurrency to transfer onto 
their platform.
Most payments were made to load money onto Mr Bs account with Z in order to trade. But 
the final two payments were tax payments which Z told him were needed before he could 
withdraw his funds. By that point, Mr B was suspicious. When he looked Z up, he found lots 
of negative reviews  and realised he had been scammed.
When contacted about the scam, Lloyds wouldnt agree to refund Mr B. So he (with support 
from a professional representative) referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint as he didnt think Lloyds could have stopped the scam.
Mr B appealed the investigators view as he thinks Lloyds could have done more to protect 
him. I reviewed the case and issued my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think it 
should be upheld  and inviting both parties to submit further evidence or comments.
Mr B (via his representative) has responded to confirm that he is willing to accept the 
provisional decision. Lloyds hasnt responded with anything further by the deadline I set. So I 
can now proceed to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received anything new in response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from that outcome. Im not upholding this complaint for the following reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Lloyds is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mr B was 
scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the starting 
position is that hes liable for them.
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account 
relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so 
should have looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before 
making the payment. If Lloyds failed to do so appropriately, and that failure led to a 
fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Lloyds didnt identify the first payment as suspicious. I wouldnt have expected it to. It 
didnt go direct to the scammer, and the size of the payment was in line with Mr Bs 
normal account activity. So I dont think Lloyds ought to have been alert to a fraud 
risk at that point.
It did identify the next payment  for £2,000  as suspicious. So Ive considered 
whether it did enough in response to the fraud risk identified. And if not, whether its 
likely that appropriate intervention would have prevented the loss. 
Lloyds called Mr B to discuss the payment. It asked whether the account with N, 
which the money was being transferred to, was his own and whether he could see 
and log into it. Mr B confirmed it was his account which he was in control of. But I 
understand that, by this point, Z were using remote control access of his computer to 
assist with the payments.
Lloyds ran through what scams involving cryptocurrency might look like. It explained 
they often start with a message on social media  Facebook was named specifically 
 and the broker will then be completing trades on behalf of the investor. It asked if 
anything like that had happened to Mr B. He said hed found the agent through a 
friend.
Lloyds also explained that often its not clear theres a problem until trying to 
withdraw the funds. For example, the investor might be told they need to pay a fee. 
Although Mr B was able to make one, small withdrawal early on, he was later told he 
had to pay tax before he could withdraw his funds  which he did.
When Lloyds told Mr B that, if something went wrong, it was unlikely hed get his 
money back, he confirmed he understood that. And he said: If it were to end up a 
scam, I know thats at my risk.
Mr B also said Im quite happy with the level of risk when asked if he felt he was 
being offered unrealistic returns.At the end of the call, Lloyds explained it could either process the payment, or 
decline it so that Mr B could go away to do further validation and checks before 
deciding whether to proceed. He opted to put the payment through.
Overall, I do think theres more Lloyds could have probed Mr B about  and more 
relevant warnings it could have given. But I have to consider whether further 
appropriate intervention was likely to have succeeded.
Having listened to the intervention call, particularly noting Mr Bs comments about the 
risk, Im not persuaded its fair to hold Lloyds at fault for not uncovering the scam at 
that point. It had already shared warnings and information relevant to the scam Mr B 
fell victim to, and he decided to proceed. Im not persuaded theres more it ought to 
have mentioned which would have prevented him from proceeding.
Lloyds didnt intervene further with the remaining payments Mr B made to N. But I 
think it should still have been monitoring for signs of fraud risk; it wasnt reasonable 
to assume that further payments to N were definitely safe if they otherwise appeared 
uncharacteristic.
I think Lloyds ought to have been concerned, and intervened further, when Mr B 
transferred £10,000 to N. Although he had a history of paying N by that point, it was 
still a relatively new payee. And looking at Mr Bs account history, making a payment 
of that size was very uncharacteristic for him.
However, for similar reasons to those set out above, Im not persuaded Lloyds would 
likely have uncovered the scam if it had intervened appropriately. It had already given 
him relevant information about the signs this was a scam, and hed decided to 
proceed.
When prompted, Mr B opted not to perform further checks on Z. And while his 
representative has told us he looked them up prior to investing and saw positive 
reviews, Ive also found a number of negative reviews pre-dating these payments. So 
with that knowledge, and the knowledge he already had from Lloyds initial 
intervention call, Im not persuaded theres much more it ought to have warned him 
about which would have stopped him from making the payment.
Additionally, Mr Bs testimony makes clear that the £10,000 payment was for trading. 
It was only the subsequent payments which were allegedly tax payments required 
before the funds could be withdrawn. So I think that would have made it less obvious 
to Lloyds that it was a scam. 
And by the time of the last two payments, I wouldnt reasonably expect Lloyds to 
have intervened again. By then, payments of those size to N looked more usual for 
Mr B  so would have looked less like a fraud risk.
Overall, Im not persuaded Lloyds ought to have stopped the scam from happening. 
So I dont consider it fair to hold it liable for Mr Bs loss on the basis that it didnt do 
enough to protect him.
Ive considered if there are any other reasons why Lloyds ought to refund Mr B. As 
our investigator explained, hes not entitled to a refund in line with the provisions of 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Thats because, although Lloyds 
is a signatory, the code doesnt apply to card payments  which the first payment 
was.Although the remaining payments were transfers, the code also doesnt apply to 
them as it only applies to transfers to another person. Whereas the transfers went to 
Mr Bs own account with N.
I also dont think Lloyds could have done more to recover the funds. We know, by the 
nature of the scam, that the funds were moved on from Mr Bs account with N  
otherwise he would have been able to recover them directly. So it couldnt recall 
those payments.
It also appears the first payment was made via a payment processor, who likely 
provided the service expected of them by paying money to the requested payee. 
Meaning there wouldnt be reasonable prospects for a chargeback claim to succeed.
That said, there isnt much information about C to show what role they played. But 
even if there was a link between Z and C, Ive still not seen enough to persuade me 
that Mr B would have been able to provide the level of evidence that would have 
been needed to support a successful chargeback claim. Such as evidence of any 
such link, and evidence that he had been unduly blocked from withdrawing money 
relating to that particular card payment.
This is especially the case because Mr B was able to withdraw almost £200, via his N 
account, shortly after the card payment. And from what Mr B has told us and Lloyds, 
it seems this money originated from that first card payment  suggesting he was able 
to withdraw those funds, or at least the amount he requested from those funds.
In conclusion, although I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, Im not persuaded its 
fair to direct Lloyds to refund him for his losses  which were ultimately caused by the cruel 
actions of the scammer.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman