DRN-4003579
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and closed his accounts. He says this 
caused him unnecessary stress and worry for which he should be compensated.
What happened
Mr A had two accounts with Barclays. In May 2022, Barclays applied blocks to his accounts 
and reviewed how Mr A was operating them. Whilst it did this Barclays removed the funds  
from the accounts and showed the accounts as to reconcile. It subsequently made Mr As 
current account appear that it was £500,000 overdrawn.
Mr A discovered that he was unable to use his accounts when he tried to log on to his 
internet banking. Fearing hed been the victim of fraud he contacted Barclays to try and find 
out what was happening with his accounts. And where his money had gone. Barclays told Mr 
A that it had placed his accounts under review. But wouldnt give Mr A much information. 
Barclays completed its review on  9 June April 2022, removed the block and released Mr As 
balances to him the same day.
Barclays subsequently decided to close Mr As accounts and wrote to him giving him two 
months notice that hed need to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr A complained to Barclays. He pointed out that hed been a loyal customer for 20 years 
and had always maintained his account properly. He explained that the banks actions had 
caused him a great deal of stress and that he missed out on social events as he wasnt able 
to access his funds. So, he said Barclays should pay him compensation for the trouble and 
upset it caused by blocking his accounts. In response, Barclays said it hadnt done anything 
wrong and had blocked Mr As accounts to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr A asked us to investigate his complaint. He said the block on his accounts and lack of 
access to his funds caused him a lot of problems. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation about why it blocked his accounts. He said that the banks actions made him feel 
humiliated, and criminalised. And caused him a great deal of worry which led to him not 
being able to sleep. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr As complaint. He said whilst he appreciated Barclays 
actions had caused Mr A trouble and upset, he thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong. He looked at all the evidence and was satisfied that Barclays had acted in line with 
their legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr As accounts. And had closed them 
in line with the account terms. So, he didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A disagreed. He doesnt accept Barclays were doing what it had to do under its 
regulatory duties. And that it was absurd to place his account overdrawn and not leave him 
some funds to use.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if 
it contains information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. Some of the information Barclays has provided is information that we 
considered should be kept confidential. This means I havent been able to share a lot of 
detail with Mr A, but Id like to reassure him that I have considered everything.
I appreciate that Mr A is upset that Barclays blocked his accounts. I can also understand that 
this was no doubt stressful for him especially as the banks actions made it difficult for him to 
sleep and take part in social events. But for me to uphold this complaint, I must be satisfied 
that the bank has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain 
why.
I want to make it clear that I understand why what happened concerned Mr A. Ive no doubt 
it wouldve come as quite a shock to him, and he wouldve been very worried to find out he 
couldnt access his money and his accounts had been blocked.  But as the investigator has 
already explained, Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory responsibilities they must 
meet when providing account services to customers. They can broadly be summarised as a 
responsibility to protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial 
crime.
Having reviewed all the evidence Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it restricted Mr As accounts. 
I appreciate that Mr A wants to know more about why Barclays did what it did. But Barclays 
isnt obliged to tell Mr A why it blocked and reviewed his accounts, and I dont believe it 
would be appropriate for me to require it to do so as much as hed like to know. 
Looking at the terms of the accounts they permit Barclays to restrict access to accounts. So, 
although I understand not having access to his accounts caused Mr A trouble and upset it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr A compensation since I dont believe Barclays 
acted inappropriately in taking the actions that it did when it blocked Mr As accounts.  
Whilst Barclays are entitled to restrict a customers account, Id expect them to do so in 
timely manner. Mr As accounts were blocked on 26 May 2022 and the review was 
completed on 9 June 2022. Given everything Ive seen I cant say there were any undue 
delays.
I note Barclays has explained that the reason Mr As current account appeared to be 
£500,000 overdrawn was because of the measures it put in place to prevent Mr A from using 
the account. I can that this action was prompted by further funds that came into Mr As 
account on 8 June 2022, which the bank needed to review to comply with its obligations. Ive 
thought about the impact this had on Mr A. Mr A says he was shocked and first thought hed 
been the victim of fraud. Hes said he was so upset he couldnt sleep. But its clear to me 
from the evidence, that Mr A was well aware his accounts were under review. Barclays told 
him on 26 May 2022 what it was doing. So, Im not persuaded to award further 
compensation for this. 
Ive next gone on to consider whether Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr As accounts. 
Its generally for banks and financial businesses to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr As account. Ive reviewed 
the terms and they explain that Barclays can close an account for any reason by giving two 
months notice. 
Having looked at all the information available to me, including Barclayss actions and the 
information its provided Im satisfied that Barclayss decision to close Mr As accounts was 
reached legitimately and fairly. Ive reviewed the terms and conditions and circumstances of 
this complaint, and Im satisfied Barclays acted in line with them, so, it was entitled to close 
the accounts as it has already done. Barclays have provided Mr A with the full notice period, 
so I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly in taking the actions it did. Ive considered 
whether Barclays need to offer any compensation in regard to the closure. But from what Ive 
seen the decision to close Mr As accounts was reasonable.
In summary, I appreciate that it was upsetting and stressful for Mr A when Barclays blocked 
his accounts and removed his money. So, I realise Mr A will be disappointed by my decision. 
But it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont 
believe Barclays acted inappropriately in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman