DRN-1976446
 
The complaint
Mr N says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about an instalment loan Mr Lender provided to Mr N in 2017. Mr N 
borrowed £400 that was to be repaid in six instalments. Mr N says the loan wasnt 
affordable, and that Mr Lender shouldnt have arranged it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators 
conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr N could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold Mr Ns complaint and Ive explained why below. 
This was the first loan Mr N had taken out with Mr Lender. As Ive already said, I might 
expect less thorough checks to be reasonable and proportionate in the early stages of a 
lending relationship.
Mr N borrowed £400 that was to be repaid in six instalments - the highest instalment amount 
being £149.33. Keeping in mind this was Mr Ns first loan with Mr Lender, I think 
proportionate checks shouldve included obtaining details of his income, normal living costs 
and regular financial commitments (including other instalment loans).
Mr Lender has provided evidence to show that it asked for this information from Mr N. He 
told Mr Lender he had a net monthly income of £2,400 and expenditure of £1,800. I 
understand that following a review of Mr Ns circumstances, Mr Lender agreed to lend an 
amount that was lower than hed originally applied for. Based on what Mr N had told Mr 
Lender about his income and expenditure, the business was satisfied that the loan 
repayments were affordable for Mr N.
When I take all of these points into account, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Mr 
Lender to arrange the loan for Mr N. Im satisfied that the financial information Mr Lender 
asked for was proportionate in the circumstances. And based on what Mr N told Mr Lender 
about his finances, I dont think the business wouldve concluded it shouldnt have arranged 
the loan, or that it needed to carry out more detailed checks of Mr Ns financial position. The 
loan was affordable for Mr N, based on the proportionate checks that Mr Lender carried out. 
In response to Mr Ns original complaint, Mr Lender offered shopping vouchers as a gesture 
of goodwill. But I understand that offer has now been withdrawn. As Im not persuaded that 
Mr Lender has done anything wrong, I wont be asking it to reinstate the offer. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman