DRN-3326087
The complaint
Mr F complains about late payment markers on his credit file, which he says were unfairly 
reported by Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
Mr F has a credit card account with Barclaycard. He cleared the account balance in 
November 2019. He says the card was then cancelled, but two transactions were made on it 
in December 2019. In early 2020, Mr F received a text message from Barclaycard asking 
him to make a payment to the account. He called Barclaycard on 3 February 2020. 
Barclaycards agent gave Mr F details of the transactions, which had been made to a 
business which Ill call P. Mr F recognised the transactions but said they should have been 
made on another card. He wanted to clear the balance over the phone, but Barclaycard was 
having technical issues at the time, so this wasnt possible. He said he would call back the 
next day.
Mr F says he couldnt get through to Barclaycard on the phone over the next few weeks. He 
made payment on 17 March 2020 over the phone. During that call, Barclaycard refunded the 
interest and charges which had been applied to his account. Mr F says he was also told that 
no late payment markers had been or would be recorded. 
But, in 2021, Mr F found out that late payment markers had been recorded on his credit file. 
He complained to Barclaycard. It sent its final response in March 2021 and partially upheld 
the complaint. It apologised that Mr F hadnt been able to make payment during his first 
phone call because of its system issues and credited his account with £25 as an apology. 
But it said it had reported the account correctly to the Credit Reference Agencies, so it didnt 
agree to remove the late payment markers.
Mr F wasnt happy with Barclaycards response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
continued to correspond with Barclaycard. In December 2021, it sent him an email which 
indicated that it was going to remove the late payment markers. But Barclaycard hasnt done 
so and has since confirmed that its position on the complaint remains as set out in its final 
response letter.
Our Investigator didnt think Barclaycard had done anything wrong by reporting the late 
payments to the Credit Reference Agencies. But he thought it had made mistakes in its 
handling of the situation, particularly the contradictory messages about whether it was going 
to remove the late payment markers. He recommended that Barclaycard pay Mr F 
compensation of £100. 
Mr F didnt accept our Investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an Ombudsman. He says that £100 is insulting and that Barclaycards mistakes are costing 
him thousands of pounds. He is also unhappy about the way Barclaycard has dealt with the 
Subject Access Requests which he has made in connection with this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr F is unhappy about the way his Subject Access Request is being dealt with. 
But Im not making any findings about that here as it doesnt fall within the scope of this 
complaint. 
Mr F says there were two mistakes by Barclaycard which led to the late payment markers 
being recorded on his credit file. Firstly, he says that the payments to P shouldnt have been 
made, as his card should have been cancelled. Secondly, he says that Barclaycard couldnt 
take his payment when he called because of problems with its system. He says that these 
issues led to the late payment markers being recorded, in turn affecting his ability to obtain 
credit and causing him distress and inconvenience. Ill look at each of these issues in turn.
Im satisfied that Mr F cleared his account balance in November 2019. He says he destroyed 
the card after that and told Barclaycard this. Ive no reason to doubt that Mr F destroyed his 
card. But that isnt the same thing as the account being closed. I havent seen any evidence 
that Mr F asked Barclaycard to close the account. So I cant conclude that it did anything 
wrong by keeping the account open. 
Mr F says the card was associated with his account with P and that the December 2019 
transactions went through in error as they should have been on a different card. Its Mr Fs 
responsibility to check which card is linked to his account with P. Its not for Barclaycard to 
change the card details on Mr Fs account with P. So I dont find that Barclaycard is at fault 
for the transactions being made on his Barclaycard account.
Its not in dispute that Mr F was unable to make payment when he called Barclaycard on 3 
February 2020 because of problems with its system. That was before the payment due date. 
So there were no adverse consequences for Mr F of payment not being made that day, other 
than the inconvenience to him.
Mr F says he wasnt given any strict timelines for when he needed to pay. Ive listened to the 
call of 3 February 2020. The agent told Mr F that payment was due on 7 February 2020. His 
January statement also showed the payment due date as 7 February 2020. So Im satisfied 
that Mr F was given a timeframe to pay.
He asked during the call whether any late payment fees had been charged. None had, as 
the payment wasnt late at that point. I think this shows that Mr F was aware that making a 
late payment could lead to adverse consequences. This was later confirmed by his February 
statement, which showed that interest and a late payment charge had been added.
Mr F says he tried calling Barclaycard several times to make payment but was met with long 
waiting times. I dont doubt that it was difficult to get through to Barclaycard on the phone at 
that time. But Im satisfied that there were other ways Mr F could have made payment. He 
says he doesnt think he had an online banking facility with Barclaycard at the time, so 
couldnt have paid by that method. But I think there were other options he could have used, 
such as visiting a branch or using an ATM, as indicated in the statements.
If Mr F had made payment by 7 February 2020, no interest or late payment charges would 
have been payable. As his payment was made after that, interest and charges were applied 
in line with the terms and conditions of his account. Barclaycard has refunded those. But Mr 
F says he was also told that no late payment markers had been or would be recorded on his 
credit file. Having listened to the call of 3 February 2020, Im satisfied that the credit file wasnt discussed at all on that occasion. As I said above, Mr F did ask if any late charges 
had been applied and the agent confirmed there were none. 
Barclaycard has recently provided a recording of the call on 17 March 2020. Barclaycards 
agent refunded the late payment charge and interest during this call. But Mr Fs credit file 
wasnt discussed at all. I find it likely that the late payments had already been reported to the 
Credit Reference Agencies by that stage. The February payment was more than a month 
overdue by that time and the March payment date had also been missed. This is confirmed 
by Mr Fs statements. On the evidence available, I dont find that Mr F was told there would 
be no impact on his credit file.
I dont think Barclaycard acted unfairly by reporting the late payments to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. Thats because the payments werent made on time and Barclaycard 
has a duty to report accurate information about Mr Fs account. Im satisfied that Mr F knew 
when the payments were due and there were various ways he could have paid (not just by 
phone). Barclaycard chose to refund the interest and charges, which I think was fair. But I 
dont think it needs to go further and amend the late payment markers.
However, I find that Barclaycard gave Mr F inconsistent information about how his complaint 
was being resolved. Barclaycards email of December 2021 said But we will first ask for the 
fees to be refunded and the late mark removed. But its final response to the complaint 
(and its position since) was that the information had been reported correctly to the Credit 
Reference Agencies and couldnt be amended. I can appreciate the frustration and 
disappointment this contradiction caused Mr F and I think Barclaycard should pay him some 
compensation to acknowledge this. I think £100 is a fair amount here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. My final decision is that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay Mr F compensation of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman