Complaint
Mr M complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) hasnt paid a fair settlement for his 
claim following the theft of his car. 
Background 
Mr M has brought his complaint to our service through a representative. But Ill refer only to 
Mr M by name in this decision, even when referring to arguments put forward by his 
representative.
Mr Ms car was stolen around six weeks after he first bought it in August 2019. When Mr Ms 
car was recovered it was declared a total loss. Mr M is unhappy that the settlement paid by 
esure is less than the price he paid for his car. He feels the amount doesnt take into account 
the modification to his car which he says would increase its value.
esure has explained that its settlement of Mr Ms claim was based on the market value of 
Mr Ms car. The amount it paid was the average market value, taken from four recognised 
motor industry trade guides, less the policy excess. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. She thought esure had paid a 
reasonable settlement for Mr Ms car after considering the recognised industry guidelines, 
the modifications and the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy.  
Mr M didn't accept our investigator's opinion. So, because no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings 
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the loss of Mr Ms car will have been distressing. I can also understand 
Mr Ms disappointment, as he believes that he hasnt received a fair valuation. But I should 
explain that my role is not to value Mr Ms car. What I need to decide is whether esure has 
settled his claim fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms and conditions of his policy.
esure accepted Mr Ms claim following the theft of his car. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ms policy say that his car is insured on a market value basis. Market value is defined in 
the policy as: 
the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your car for on the open market 
immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is based on the cars 
of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition and mileage at the time of the 
DRN-1422590accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor trade guides including: Glasss, 
Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you purchased the car. 
Mr M complains that he paid more for his car than the amount offered by esure. Although 
this may be frustrating, I dont agree that this means esure has acted unfairly. I say this 
because the policy clearly states how the market value will be assessed and that it might not 
be the amount the car was purchased for.
esure valued Mr Ms car at £22,084. In reaching this value, esure says it relied on four of the 
same recognised industry guides our service typically uses when assessing a fair market 
value. It says these valuations were:
Glasss - £21,570
Parkers - £22,415
CAP  £21,206
Cazana - £23,146
esure took the average of these four valuations and paid that amount, less the policy excess, 
to Mr M. This approach is consistent with what our service typically says is fair in similar 
complaints. 
Our investigator checked the valuations esure carried out before she issued her 
assessment. I have also checked these and the figures returned are within range of the 
valuations esure has quoted. So, aside from Mr Ms point about the modifications to his car 
which Ill address below, I think the approach taken by esure and the value reached are in 
line with the terms of the policy and fair and reasonable.
Mr M is unhappy that esure hasnt factored in the modifications to his car, which he says 
would increase the market value. He says he was charged an extra premium for the 
modifications for this reason.
esure says the modifications on Mr Ms car may not increase the market value but may 
increase its risk  which explains the increased premium. While modifications to a car might 
be a desirable feature for some buyers, and so potentially increase the amount they might 
be prepared to pay, theyre just as likely to have the complete opposite effect on other 
potential buyers. So, I dont think esures decision not to increase its valuation of the car, due 
to the modifications, is unfair or unreasonable. 
It follows that I wont be asking esure to increase the value it placed on Mr Ms car. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, I don't uphold Mr M's complaint about esure Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Adam Golding
Ombudsman