DRN-4506249
The complaint
Mr W complains that American Express Services Europe Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W was approved for an American Express credit card in March 2008, and then three 
credit limit changes as follows:
Date Credit Limit
March 2008 £2,400
July 2010 £2,900
August 2011 £2,200
June 2018 £5,500
Mr W says the credit card, and the unsolicited credit limit increases caused him to accrue 
debts that he is still repaying. He says he was at or near his credit card limit when the limits 
were increased and making little more than minimum repayments. Mr W says that American 
Express should have carried out credit checks as that would have shown he already had a 
high level of borrowing relative to his income. He adds that his physical and mental health 
have been affected by the associated stress combined with difficult family circumstances.
American Express said Mr W could have opted out of the automatic credit limit increases, or 
requested a decrease, at any time. It said it takes into consideration income, account 
management and other internal and external data before setting credit limits.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld in part. Although there was 
limited information available about the checks carried out by American Express between 
2008 and 2010, he found it likely that proportionate checks would have shown the initial 
lending and first credit limit increase to be fair based on the available evidence. However, he 
said American Express should have had an understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances 
for the large credit limit increase in 2018. He was not satisfied that American Expresss 
checks went far enough and that, had it carried out proportionate checks, it was likely to 
have found that further lending was unaffordable. He said that American Express should 
remove all interest and fees that have been applied to balances above £2,900 and remove 
all adverse information recorded after July 2018.
Mr W responded to say, in summary, that hed like a refund of all interest charged after 2018 
as American Express should have realised he was in financial difficulties and offered to 
freeze interest at that time. He added that the limit increase had had profound implications 
for his financial decisions in the longer term.
American Express accepted the investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account Opening and Credit Limit increase in July 2010
As both parties have accepted the investigators findings on the affordability of the initial 
credit limit and first increase, I wont consider that element of Mr Ws complaint further here.
Credit Limit increase in June 2018
As American Express has accepted the investigators view with regard to the credit limit 
increase in June 2018, I wont consider the affordability aspect further here. I will, however, 
consider what Mr W has said about the interest payments from 2018 onwards.
Whilst I understand that Mr W was in financial difficulties in 2018, and further checks by 
American Express would have shown that, I dont find its reasonable for all interest to be 
refunded from that time. I say that because:
Credit limits up to £2,900 were found to be fair, so the interest was correctly applied 
based on the terms and conditions of the account;
In the lead up to the credit limit increase in June 2018 there was no indication from 
Mr Ws management of his American Express account, that the level of debt was 
unsustainable:
oHe consistently paid more than the minimum amount throughout 2017;
oHe cleared his account balance in July 2017;
oFrom then until June 2018, any charges were repaid in full each month;
Although Ive seen evidence that Mr W requested an interest freeze on his account in 
2016, neither he, nor American Express, has a record of any communication 
indicating financial difficulty in 2018;
In summary, I find American Express was irresponsible to have increased Mr Ws credit limit 
above £2,900 when it did, but I cant see it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. American Express Services Europe 
Limited should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied on 
balances above £2,900;oAs the account is now closed, this should be refunded to Mr W along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. American Express should also remove all adverse 
information regarding the account after June 2018 from Mr Ws credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires American Express to deduct tax from any award of 
interest. It must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman