DRN-2920872
The complaint
 Mrs S complains that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited (2 Plan) failed to follow her
investment instructions and she lost out. 
What happened
Mrs S said she became concerned about the impact of COVID 19 on markets and therefore
her investments. She had two pension policies with different insurance companies and
wanted to prevent any fall in value.
Mrs S said her husband contacted 2 Plan on 25 February and following a conversation a
meeting was held on 27 February 2020. The meeting was to discuss the fall in markets due
to COVID 19. She said she told 2 Plan she wanted to move her money into cash, but it
didnt, and she lost out.
2 Plan said it followed the instructions it was given in a timely manner and didnt think it had
done anything wrong. 2 Plan said it was first contacted on 25 February with concerns about
the market reaction to Coronavirus. A meeting was arranged for 27 February. At that
meeting the valuations that were available showed one of Mrs Ss policies had fallen a few
hundred pounds between 24 and 25 February but details of her other policy werent
available at the meeting.
The 2 Plan adviser understood the outcome of the meeting to be that Mrs S wanted to wait
and monitor the position. The following morning her husband texted 2 Plan to say he wanted
to move into cash. 2 Plan clarified that this related to both of his policies, but no reference
was made to Mrs Ss policies. Following a further call from Mrs S, funds in one policy were
moved into cash some days later. The adviser asked for instructions how to proceed with the
second policy, but there was no reply until 16 March. It wasnt possible to contact the
provider that day, so an email was issued the following day and they replied advising of their
requirements, but no reply was received from Mrs S who needed to deal directly with the
provider herself. It said it had responded to requests promptly and diligently and held two
appointments. It didnt uphold the complaint.
My first provisional decision.
I issued a provisional decision in this case. In short this considered when I thought Mrs S
intended to instruct her policies should be moved to cash. I have not set out the details of my
argument as further information about the policy values mean that my initial considerations
and conclusions are no longer relevant. However, in short, I concluded that on balance I
thought Mrs S thought she had given instructions to stop her two policies on 27 February.
I thought 2 Plan made a mistake and shouldve acted to move her policies into cash or cash
like funds following the meeting on 27 February 2020. Where a mistake is made the
law would seek to put Mrs S back in the position, she wouldve been in but for the mistake.
I proposed to direct that 2 Plan should calculate the difference in value in both of Mrs Ss
policies had they been moved into cash or cash like funds in those timescales.
Mis sold policy
I noted also that Mrs S had complained that she thought her instructions to change
investments could be implemented instantly so there shouldnt have been any delay before
the money was moved. She said the time needed to make the change was never explained
to her and her policies mustve been mis sold.
I said it was typical of many such policies that they are invested in investment funds which 
are subject to valuation and dealing only once per day. Any instruction to change will
typically take several days. There are daily cut off times before which time instructions need
to be received by the investment manager for dealing on that day.
Mrs S said her policies mustve been mis sold as they couldnt be encashed immediately.
However, I said that in advising on an investment the ability to immediately encash
wouldnt typically have been something I would expect the adviser to have considered,
unless Mrs S had expressly said this was a requirement. So, it would seem unlikely to me
that the policy was mis sold solely on that basis.
Distress and inconvenience
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. This was intended to reflect the
impact on Mrs S not to punish 2 Plan. I could understand that this situation was
disappointing for Mrs S and frustrating as she was clearly nervous about investment loss. On
balance I thought an award of £350 is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs S said in the light of the call on 25 February she and her husband thought they were in
an overall positive position, but they didnt have copies of the valuation information referred
to in the call or in the meeting. They were concerned that the differences in values were
greater than had been reported and that would have made a difference to their actions. Their
decisions were based on the overall impact on both of them, not just on their individual
positions.
2 Plan didnt agree. It said Mrs S had two policies. It said Mrs S was fully aware that her
pensions were not protected and they were provided with a valuation update on 25 February
2020 as follows:-
Response 16:32
Whilst the funds aren't "protected" we have taken a cautious approach. (Mrs Ss first policy)
is down £83 and yours.. is down £733 (1% compared to a market drop of over 3%) whilst
your new plan is up by £1,185. Hopefully this has helped to put your mind at rest but if you're
still nervous we should meet up and discuss. Kind regards
It set out further detailed arguments to show that Mrs S didnt intend to give instruction to
encash at the meeting. Due to further information this is no longer directly relevant to my
conclusions, so I have not set out those comments further.
Further information
Following the comments from Mr and Mrs S I asked 2 Plan to provide copies of valuations
for each of Mr and Mrs Ss policies and details of the values shown on their system for the
dates from 25 to 28 February 2020. 
From the information it was clear there was a mismatch between the valuation figure
shown by the 2 Plan system and that of the insurance company such that 2 Plan information
shows the values to be higher than those presented by the insurance company.So, the statement on 25 February 2020 that Mrs S was around £84 down wasnt correct as 
the insurance company valuation showed the value was lower, so the fall was around £160.
Also, Mrs S said her decision was based on the impact across all of the policies for her and
her husband. They were told that her husbands policies were overall up in value.
However, the insurance company valuations for his policies showed that the value on
25 February 2020 was around £2,000 lower than the value on the 2 Plan system on 25 
February 2020 and the policy must therefore have been overall down in value compared to 
the 2 Plan system values on 20 February 2020 and 25 February 2020.
So, it seemed the reassurance provided on 25 February 2020 that Mr and Mrs S were 
overall up wasnt correct and overall both policies were lower in value than the 2 Plan 
system on 25 February 2020 and by the date of the meeting on 27 February 2020 had fallen 
further.
Mr S made contact on 25 February 2020 to express concerns about the impact of the
Coronavirus on markets. I had seen copies of the communication from that day. Mr S made
contact after 4pm and said he had read that pension investments had dropped due to foreign
investments collapsing and he thought the FTSE dropped. He asks if his and his wifes
investment are ok?
Mr Ss adviser replies within 15 minutes to say we have seen a significant drop in FTSE this
week, mainly affecting blue chip stock due to the global outbreak of corona virus. It's
affecting all economies and not necessarily a sign of collapse. Earnings figures from the US
today are looking good. I'll run some updated values when the markets close and hope this
is a short term affect until the virus is under control.
Mr S replies to say he wants his funds protected and the adviser replies to say that Whilst
the funds aren't "protected" we have taken a cautious approach.  your SW is down £733
(1% compared to a market drop of over 3%) whilst your new plan is up by £1,185. Hopefully
this has helped to put your mind at rest but if you're still nervous we should meet up and
discuss.
Mr S said we need to meet up as definitely not wanting to end up with more negative which
is all I can see this virus creating.
2 Plan say the information supplied via its system is standard across the industry and the
differences compared to the insurance company values are due to timing differences in
updating underlying fund values. While that may be the case, Mr Ss policies were each
invested in only one fund so there was only one to update.
Given the importance of accurate information to allow Mr and Mrs S to decide, I thought 2 
Plan might reasonably have double checked the values with the insurance company to make 
sure it was providing up to date information on the call or before the meeting. Also, It didnt 
tell her the values were a few days old.
Mr S was clear that he was definitely not wanting to end up with more negative. The reality
was that at the time of the exchange on 25 February 2020 the position was already more 
negative than presented.
Even if 2 Plan hadnt checked at the time of the exchange on 25 February 2020 it could have 
done this immediately afterwards. Given the market volatility reported in the press, which 
alerted Mr and Mrs S, and the concern he expressed in his text, I thought this would have 
been a reasonable thing to do. But it didnt and instead it gave Mrs S misleading information 
and she and her husband delayed action until the meeting.The Financial Conduct Authority has various principles that apply to the service provided by
2 Plan. Principle 7 says that
a firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Based on the information presented I didnt think the information provided was clear and not
misleading. I said that because it didnt check the values were accurate and up to date and it
seems it did have access to the insurance companies to enable it to do this (for one of Mrs
Ss policies and for both of Mr Ss policies). Further it didnt give any warning that the
information was historic and not recently available information from the insurance company.
I noted that Mrs S could have checked the 2 Plan system, but we know at the time she had
complained she couldnt get access to the system. Further we now know the system wasnt
showing the most up to date information so there was little benefit in doing this. Also, Mrs S 
was asking and being provided with information by her adviser, so had no need to double 
check it herself.
2 Plan also said this matter wasnt the subject of the original complaint. But this service has
power to investigate a complaint more widely than that set out in the original complaint. The
rules governing this service say DISP 3.5.1
The Ombudsman will attempt to resolve complaints by whatever means appear to him to
be most appropriate, including mediation or investigation.
The purpose of this provisional decision was to allow 2 Plan to make comments that can be
considered to ensure both parties are being treated fairly and reasonably and as required by
DISP rule 3.5.4.
My second provisional decision
I thought 2 Plan made a mistake for the reasons given and supplied misleading information
upon which to allow Mrs S to decide. I thought Mrs S delayed encashment in reliance on the 
information. Mrs S was therefore entitled to be put back in the position she would have been 
in had she been given information that was more up to date and not misleading.
I thought that had Mrs S been given the most up to date information on the 25 February 
2020 she would not have waited until the meeting but would have given an instruction to 
move into cash on 25 February 2020. I said that because Mr Ss text message while 
discussing the position for both Mr and Mrs S, said he wanted to avoid being more negative. 
I thought it was reasonable to conclude that Mrs S would have given an instruction to move 
into cash on 25 February and not later.
I reconsidered my proposed award for distress and inconvenience and remained of the
view that the amount proposed was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I proposed to uphold this complaint and make an award of £350 for distress and
inconvenience and an award for loss calculated on the following basis.
My aim in awarding fair compensation was to put Mrs S back into the position she would 
likely have been in, had it not been for 2 Plans error. We knew the exchange on 25 
February 2020 took place around 4pm, so I thought the earliest an instruction to move to 
cash could have been acted on by 2 Plan would have been 26 February 2020. Given Mrs 
Ss concern I thought it was reasonable to assume that it would have been actioned before 
12 noon on 26/2/20. So, I proposed to make an award for loss on that basis.I noted that for Mrs Ss policy ending 1779 no cash option was available and based on the
evidence from 2 Plan Mrs S didnt respond quickly to the suggestions for action on this 
policy.
I noted also that it was invested in two funds one a property fund and the other a defensive
managed fund. It appeared from publicly available information, that the property fund was
subject to some provider restrictions between 30 March 2020 and September 2020 which 
based on comments from Mrs S affected her ability to change this investment. This meant
she didnt in fact make any changes in either of the investments for that policy. I have seen a
statement from the policy showing the value at 19 March 2021 and charges for the period
from March 2020 to February 2021. This seems to show that the fund remained in the same
two investment funds throughout this time.
On the basis that it doesnt seem either investment fund within the policy ending 1779 was 
changed, I think it is reasonable to conclude that it would not have made a difference to Mrs 
Ss actions had she decided to encash this policy on 25 February 2020. I say that because 
even after it was clear in early March 2020 that she wanted to encash and was 
communicating with 2 Plan to do so, she did not immediately move to take steps to change 
the funds in that policy before the restrictions imposed on 30 March 2020. Nor did she make 
changes to her second investment fund in that policy, that doesnt appear to have been 
restricted, at that time.
Given that 2 Plan had suggested some non-cash funds it should have been reasonably
possible to move both funds before 30 March 2020 or at least the unaffected fund. But that
didnt happen. So, I didnt think the delay caused by 2 Plan stopped Mrs S from changing her
investment. On that basis I didnt think it would have made a difference had she given
instructions to move to cash on 25 February 2020 for the policy ending 1779 and the delay 
had not affected any move to cash.
However, Mrs S did instruct 2 Plan to act on her second policy ending 2877. Any loss Mrs S
has suffered on policy 2877 should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the
pension for the provider of policy ending 2877 on the date it would have been disinvested. 
For those purposes it should be assumed the insurance company would have received the 
instruction before 12 noon on 26 February 2020 and subtracting the value of the pension 
from this notional value when it was actually disinvested. If the answer is negative, theres a 
gain and no redress is payable. If it is positive this is the amount of Mr Ss loss.
The amount of any such loss should be adjusted by reference to the investment return. The 
amount of any further contributions paid into the policy after 25 February 2020 and any 
investment return thereon should be disregarded for these purposes.
Mrs S said she agreed with the decision to compensate her for loss on the policy ending 
2877. She felt a fair figure for distress and inconvenience would be £500 given the time 
taken to resolve the problem and the impact on her heatlh. She didnt agree with the 
decision about her other policy which had reduced in value but didnt give further reasons. 
2 Plan did not respond.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and in the light of the absence of any reply from 2 Plan I have not changed 
my mind. I note Mrs Ss comments about distress and inconvenience. This amount is to reflect the impact on Mrs S not to punish 2 Plan. I remain of the view that £350 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint  
Putting things right
 2 Plan should pay Mrs S an amount for her financial loss on the policy ending 2877 and an 
amount of £350 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct that 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited should within 30 days of this service 
informing it that Mrs S has accepted my final decision pay Mrs S the following:-
1. £350 for distress and inconvenience.
and
2. Any loss Mrs S has suffered on policy 2877 should be determined by obtaining the 
notional value of the pension for the provider of policy ending 2877 on the date it 
would have been disinvested. For those purposes it should be assumed the 
insurance company would have received the instruction from 2 Plan before 12 noon 
on 26 February 2020 and subtracting the value of the pension from this notional 
value when it was actually disinvested. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and 
no redress is payable. If it is positive this is the amount of Mrs Ss loss.
The amount of any such loss calculated under 2 above should be adjusted by 
reference to the interest rate paid and/or investment return (if any) on the policy 
ended 2877 policy that would have applied if it had been moved into cash following 
the instruction on 26 February 2020 and further reflects any subsequent change in 
investments after that date and up to the day before the date of payment of this 
compensation to Mrs S. The amount of any further contributions paid into the policy 
after 25 February 2020 and any investment return thereon should be disregarded for 
these purposes.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ss pension plan. The
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mrs S hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from her plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss
adequately reflects this. 
If the amount awarded for distress and inconvenience is not paid to Mrs S within 30 days of 
this service informing 2 Plan that Mrs S has accepted this decision the amount of such 
award shall be further increased from the date of my final decision to the date of actual 
payment by simple interest at the rate of 8% simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman