DRN-2620590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained about XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limiteds decision 
to decline their claim under their holiday home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P owned a property which they let out to holidaymakers.
In June 2019, the tenant of the property reported a strong smell of oil. Mr and Mrs P 
arranged for an engineer to attend. The engineer confirmed that the oil pump had failed, 
causing oil to fill the boiler combustion chamber and overflow into the oil tray. The engineer 
carried out a repair but a strong smell of oil continued to pervade the property. The current 
tenant left the property one day early due to the smell and Mr and Mrs P cancelled bookings 
for the next three weeks until the smell had subsided.
Mr and Mrs P made a claim under the policy for the cost of the repair and for loss of rent for 
three weeks and one day.
After obtaining further information and speaking to the engineer, XL Catlin declined the 
claim. It said the fault with the boiler was due to wear and tear and thus the cost of repair 
wasnt covered under the policy. While there was cover under the policy for damage due to 
an escape of oil, it understood that all the oil had collected in the oil tray and thus hadnt 
escaped or caused damage. It explained that cover for loss of rent was only available if the 
property was uninhabitable due to an insured peril and, since no such peril was operative in 
this case, Mr and Mrs P could not claim for this.
 Mr and Mrs P complained to XL Catlin about its decision. They considered that the boiler 
repair should be covered under the policy. They also said that even if the oil had been 
confined to the oil tray, it wasnt normally supposed to be there and could therefore 
reasonably be said to have escaped. They nonetheless provided a statement from the 
engineer confirming that some of the oil had overflowed the tray onto the floor and they said 
this was responsible for the continuing smell in the property. They said although the cost of 
cleaning up the oil by the engineer had been negligible and thus hadnt formed part of their 
claim, it was nonetheless eligible for cover which, in turn, meant their claim for loss of rent 
was also eligible.
XL Catlin wouldnt change its decision. Mr and Mrs P therefore referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He considered it 
had been fair for XL Catlin to decline the claim for the cost of repair of the boiler on the 
grounds that this was due to wear and tear. However, he considered there had been an 
escape of oil and Mr and Mrs P could legitimately have claimed for the cost of cleaning this 
up. He considered that the escape of oil had meant the property could not be let. He 
therefore considered that XL Catlin should accept Mr and Mrs Ps claim for loss of rent.
XL Catlin didnt accept the investigators findings. It said the oil didnt escape the oil tray and 
there was no resultant damage to the property. In this regard, it noted that damage wasnt 
defined under the policy but that the majority of dictionary definitions stated that it involved 
physical harm and loss in value or usefulness. It therefore considered that there was no 
eligible claim for loss of rent, particularly as the volume of leakage (20 litres) would not have 
posed a health threat. It furthermore questioned to what extent the smell meant the property 
was uninhabitable and what steps Mr and Mrs P had taken to mask or eradicate this.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me deal first of all with the claim for the repair of the boiler.
The engineer confirmed that the boiler was over ten years old and the problem was due to a 
fault on the oil pump which he had therefore replaced.
The policy states that cover is excluded for the following:
Any loss or damage  caused by wear and tear or any other gradually operating cause, 
mechanical or electrical breakdown, fault or failure.
Im satisfied from this that XL Catlin is not liable for the cost of repair of the boiler.
Now let me deal with the claim for loss of rent.
The policy states that cover is provided for the following:
The rent you would have received but are unable to recover while the holiday home cannot 
be lived in following loss or damage which is covered under the events insured under 
numbers 1 to 11 in Section 1  Buildings  Standard Cover
This means that for Mr and Mrs Ps claim for loss of rent to be eligible for cover, the reason 
the property cannot be lived in must be due to an event which itself was eligible for cover 
under the policy.
The policy provides cover for the following:
loss or damage caused by  escape of oil from a fixed domestic oil-fired heating 
installation or smoke damage caused by a fault in any fixed domestic heating installation
Im therefore satisfied that Mr and Mrs P were covered for loss or damage caused by an 
escape of oil from the boiler.
XL Catlin said that according to the engineer, although there was a flood of oil within the 
boiler, none of the oil escaped the boiler tray. It therefore considered that there had been no 
escape of oil and hence no loss or damage caused by an escape of oil. On this basis, it 
concluded that no eligible claim existed for the event with the boiler and hence no claim 
could be made for loss of rent.
Mr and Mrs P argued that the oil was not normally supposed to be in the oil tray and, on this 
basis, could be said to have escaped. However, I dont consider I need to reach a decision 
on this point, as I shall explain below.While the engineer initially said that no oil had escaped the oil tray, he later clarified in 
writing that some oil overflowed the tray onto the floor behind the boiler. He needed to clean 
up this spillage. The time he spent on doing this was likely to be minimal and was absorbed 
within his overall cost of repair. As such, it was unlikely to be worth Mr and Mrs P claiming 
for the cost under the policy because it would be less than the £100 excess. Mr and Mrs P 
offered to ask the engineer to separate out the cost in his invoice but XL Catlin didnt take up 
this offer. Nonetheless, while the cost of cleaning up the spilled oil was likely to be minimal 
and didnt in itself give rise to a claim, I consider that it nonetheless represents a loss which 
would be covered under the policy.
The current tenant moved out of the property a day early due to the smell of the oil and 
Mr and Mrs P compensated him for this. I consider it likely that the property remained  
uninhabitable for the next three weeks due to the smell of oil, not least because I can see no 
reason why Mr and Mrs P would otherwise cancel bookings which were already in place.
It is difficult to know the extent to which the smell that pervaded the property was due to the 
oil which overflowed the tray and seeped into the floor as opposed to the oil which flooded 
the combustion chamber but ultimately didnt escape the oil tray. However, given that XL 
Catlin cant prove it wasnt wholly or mainly due to the oil which overflowed the oil tray (and 
which was a covered loss), I consider it should accept and settle the claim for loss of rent.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited to accept Mr and Mrs Ps claim for loss of 
rent and settle this in accordance with the policys remaining terms and conditions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
David Poley
Ombudsman