DRN-3747367
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him poor customer service when he 
experienced issues with mobile banking. 
What happened
On 1 May 2022, Mr F wrote to his local branch asking for assistance with issues he was 
experiencing using his banking app which hed recently downloaded on his iPad. 
Mr F explained the banking app never opened at the first attempt and frequently required 
three or more attempts. He was also unable to use his secure key to access his online 
banking as he needs to generate a code using the banking app, rather than the secure key 
which he used in the past.
When Mr F didnt receive a response, he wrote to his local branch again on 22 May 2022. 
He then sent another letter to raise a complaint on 13 June 2022. HSBC replied to Mr Fs 
letter on 12 June 2022 and asked him to visit a branch with identification to resolve the 
issues with his online and mobile banking.
HSBC tried to speak to Mr F regarding his complaint on 12 July 2022. But Mr F didnt wish to 
proceed with the call due to concerns that there had or couldve been a breach of his data. 
So, HSBC issued their final response letter. 
In summary, HSBC explained that they couldnt divulge any information during the phone 
call until Mr F had completed their outbound security process which they have in place to 
safeguard customers, their account and themselves from fraud and financial crime.
HSBC explained that Mr Fs secure key is now accessed via the banking app, so the 
physical secure key is no longer compatible following a recent upgrade to their digital 
security platform. They told Mr F that he could switch back to the physical secure key, but he 
wouldnt be able to use the banking app going forward.  
They also said they were aware of intermittent occurrences of the banking app running 
slowing and not launching as theyd expect. They explained that their IT team were working 
hard to find fixes as soon as possible but they couldnt provide any timescales or notify him 
when the issues were resolved. They accepted it impacts the usability of the banking app 
and apologised for the inconvenience caused.
They said that they were able to locate Mr Fs letter of 22 May 2022 which theyd responded 
to on 12 June 2022. But they accepted their response was standardised and they couldve 
included more information to answer Mr Fs query. They apologised, assured him theyd 
record his feedback to improve their service going forward and offered him £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. Following our involvement, HSBC increased their 
offer of compensation from £50 to £150. Our investigator explained that we couldnt ask 
HSBC to change their security policies and procedures. But in summary, he agreed the 
service Mr F received couldve been better and thought the compensation offer of £150 for 
the inconvenience caused was fair and reasonable. Mr F disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has explained his concerns around disclosing personal information over a call which he 
wasnt expecting to receive. Given the increase in scam calls, its understandable that he 
wants to remain cautious. He has suggested a solution to HSBC which he believes would 
reassure customers that the caller is genuine. 
HSBC are entitled to make commercial decisions on how they carry out their day-to-day 
business. This includes deciding whether to implement Mr Fs suggestion or make changes 
to how they verify customers.
As an informal service, we cant tell banks, like HSBC, how to operate their business more 
broadly or interfere with their policy decision, such as their security process. Were also 
unable to ask HSBC to review their procedures. This is the role of the financial service 
regulator, The Financial Conduct Authority.
Focusing on Mr Fs complaint specifically, Im satisfied that HSBC followed their outbound 
call procedures. They explained that they ask for some of the customers personal 
information but provide part of the answer to help maintain confidentiality. They also 
reassured Mr F that they wouldnt ask for any details which would leave him or his account 
at risk. So, I cant agree HSBC treated Mr F unfairly.
The issues Mr F reported with his banking app in his letter of 1 May 2022, is consistent with 
the problems HSBC were aware of  the banking app running slowing or needing attempts 
to load.
Mr F wasnt able to use his physical secure key with online banking as it wasnt compatible 
after downloading the banking app. This meant Mr F had to rely on his banking app. I can 
understand why it wouldve been annoying and frustrating to come across these issues.
HSBC have now informed Mr F that their IT team are working on fixing these issues as soon 
as possible. Theyve apologised for the inconvenience caused which is what Id expect them 
to do. 
Mr F was also given the option of switching back to the physical secure key. This would then 
have given him the ability to use online banking avoiding the issues with the banking app 
while it was still being fixed. 
And although the banking app had problems with launching, Mr F was still able to use it. He 
also had the option of using telephone banking or visiting a branch, so he retained access to 
his account and could carry out any transactions as usual, albeit not using his preferred 
channel of banking.
Mr F is disappointed that HSBC wont notify him when the issues with the banking app are 
fixed. He has raised a fair question  how would he know when the issue is resolved, if 
HSBC dont update him? HSBC have explained its not feasible for them to provide updates on every error and system 
issues they experience given that it may affect some customers but not all of them. While I 
agree it would be helpful for HSBC to notify Mr F, I dont think this is unreasonable that they 
arent able to do so for the reasons theyve given.
Mr F could contact HSBC from time to time to check if the issues with the banking app are 
resolved or equally, hed become aware while hes using his banking app which I understand 
hes continued to use. I accept this would cause Mr F some minor inconvenience and 
frustration, but the impact of this is minimal and not more than the normal nuisances you 
might expect from everyday life.
HSBC have said that they didnt receive Mr Fs letter of 1 May 2022 as it was sent to a 
branch. Theyve explained they arent able to guarantee safe delivery or that these types of 
requests can always be actioned. 
Mr F has told us he wrote to his local branch as hed received a letter from HSBC in 2021 
which explained that his then local branch was closing, and his account was going to be 
administered by a different branch going forward. And since Mr Fs query was administration 
related, he wrote to the branch after not receiving a response from the online secure 
messaging and technical helpline.
I note that the terms and conditions set out that customers can contact HSBC by post  
although to their customer service centre rather than a branch. I dont think its unreasonable 
to expect that Mr Fs letter sent to his branch would be forwarded on to the customer service 
centre or another department to action if the branch couldnt deal with the request. 
However, HSBC have encouraged Mr F to complete future banking enquiries via online, 
mobile, telephone banking or by visiting a branch which he may wish to do going forward to 
avoid any problems. 
HSBC received Mr Fs letter dated 22 May 2022 which they responded to on 12 June 2022. 
Ive looked at the response provided, and I agree the information given wasnt helpful, 
particularly since Mr F didnt need to visit a branch to have his query resolved. This meant 
Mr F didnt get an answer to the problems he raised in his letter of 1 May 2022 until 12 July 
2022 which I think is an unreasonable delay causing Mr F unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. But Im satisfied HSBC dealt with Mr Fs complaint of 13 June 2022 within 
the timescales expected.
To put things right, HSBC have apologised, said theyd pass feedback to improve their 
service going forward and initially offered £50 compensation. But they later increased this to 
£150. Having considered the impact of the customer service issues on Mr F, Im satisfied 
this is a fair amount of compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.
I appreciate Mr F isnt seeking compensation but wants HSBC to take customer service 
seriously. I hope HSBC will take on board the feedback from Mr Fs complaint as they said in 
their final response letter. However, the award of £150 compensation is to recognise the 
impact of the customer service issues. Ill leave it to Mr F to decide if he wishes to accept.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr 
F £150 compensation to fairly resolve this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman