DRN-3123453
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Together Personal Finance Limited (trading as Together) 
unfairly recorded late payments for their second charge mortgage loan. They say this 
stopped them re-mortgaging. Mr and Mrs C ask that all late payments are removed from 
their credit files and for compensation of £5,000 for their time and additional interest costs. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C took payment deferrals for six months in 2020, during the Covid-19 pandemic. 
In accordance with guidelines issued by the regulator Together didnt record adverse data on 
their credit files in relation to the payment deferral. Mr and Mrs C didnt re-instate their direct 
debit in time for the payment due in November 2020 and Together recorded a late payment 
on their credit files.
Together wrongly recorded a late payment on Mr and Mrs Cs credit files for January 2021. 
Together said it would correct this and paid £75 compensation. However, Mr and Mrs Cs 
credit files werent corrected until May 2021. Our investigator said Together should pay 
another £75 for the upset this caused. He said the late payment for November 2020 was 
recorded correctly, and he didnt ask Together to remove it.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said this wasnt enough compensation for the upset and 
time spent, and £1,000 would be more suitable. They said the inaccurate data delayed them 
re-mortgaging by a month. And the late payment recorded for November 2020 made it 
virtually impossible for them to get credit.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs income was affected by the Covid-19 pandemic and social distancing 
measures brought in by the UK Government. They took a payment deferral for May to 
October 2020. They didnt re-instate their direct debit, or make a payment by other means, 
before their November payment was due. They say they were dealing with the death of a 
family member and their businesses. 
Theres no dispute that the payment due in November 2020 was late. Mr and Mrs C say its 
unfair for Together to record adverse data on their credit files given the situation at the time 
and Togethers later errors. They say it should allow a grace period.
Together gave Mr and Mrs C clear information about having to make a payment in 
November. It told them theyd need to make a payment in November when they asked for 
the second payment deferral in August 2020. Together provided a copy of the letter sent to 
Mr and Mrs C in August 2020 confirming their payment deferral. This says that once the 
payment deferral ends, payments will resume. It says missed payments may show as 
arrears on their credit file and affect their credit rating. Together wrote to Mr and Mrs C in 
October saying the payment deferral was coming to an end. 
Mrs C called Together in early November 2020. Together told Mrs C that a payment was due 
on 14 November. She said their income was still being affected by the pandemic. At this 
point Mr and Mrs C had had payment deferrals for six months and couldnt ask for further 
payment deferrals on the same basis. Together explained what support it might be able to 
offer. It said this would need Mr and Mrs C to provide a financial statement. Mrs C said she 
didnt want support that would impact on their credit files. She said they were planning to sell 
a property and use the proceeds to repay the loan. She wanted to know if there was an 
ERC. 
I think Together made it clear that a payment was due. It said it could offer support to Mr and 
Mrs C and emailed a financial statement form to Mrs C. Mr and Mrs C didnt complete and 
return the financial statement or follow up with Together to see what support it might offer. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C had a lot to deal with in late 2020. But their payment was late, 
and I dont think this was due to an error by Together. Together has to report accurate and 
up to date information to the credit rating agencies. Mrs C says other lenders have grace 
periods for late payments. Different lenders have their own criteria for when they record late 
payments. Ive checked with Together that it acted in accordance with its own criteria. I dont 
think it made an error or recorded incorrect information here, and I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require it to remove the late payment from Mr and Mrs Cs credit files.
Mr and Mrs Cs payment due in February 2021 was late. Together agreed not to record a 
late payment on their credit files as they made the payment only a few days later. 
However, Together made an error when it recorded a late payment for January 2021. This 
was due to it not correctly processing Mr and Mrs Cs request to change their payment date. 
Despite Together saying it would sort this out, Mr and Mrs Cs credit file wasnt corrected 
until May 2021.
I can appreciate how frustrating this was. And I think its right that Together pays 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience this caused. But I dont think the fact that 
Together made an error in early 2021 makes it fair and reasonable to require it to remove 
the late payment correctly recorded in November 2020.
Mr and Mrs C say their re-mortgage was delayed due to the late payment wrongly recorded 
in early 2021 and they had difficulty getting credit. However, they didnt provide evidence to 
support this or to show what financial loss (if any) they suffered as a result of Togethers 
error. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Together to pay 
compensation for any financial loss.
Together paid £75 compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by recording the 
late payment wrongly in early 2021 and, after the complaint came to us, agreed to pay a 
further £75. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Together Personal Finance Limited should pay £75 to Mr and Mrs C, in 
addition to the £75 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman