DRN-4029096
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way John Lewis Financial Services dealt with two disputes for 
purchases made using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr R used his John Lewis credit card to pay £16 for an online food order on 7 October 2022 
(transaction 1) which he didnt receive, as the order was cancelled by the merchant. On 19 
October 2022 he used his credit card to pay £17.13 for another online food order, he said 
part of the order was under cooked and not satisfactory (transaction 2).
Unable to resolve his dispute with the merchants, Mr R contacted John Lewis in October 
2022 to assist with getting the transactions refunded. John Lewis considered the 
transactions under the chargeback rules. On 1 November 2022 John Lewis advised that Mr 
R had already received a partial refund of £5.89 from the merchant in respect of transaction 
2 and requested evidence that a further refund was due. Mr R says he provided further 
evidence; John Lewis says he didnt.
On 7 November 2022 John Lewis incorrectly told Mr R it couldnt initiate a chargeback for 
transaction 1, as Mr R didnt have a valid dispute right because hed authorised the 
transaction. 
On 25 November 2022 Mr R complained to John Lewis he was unhappy his disputed 
transactions had not been resolved. On 28 November 2022 John Lewis added a credit of 
£11.24 to reimburse the remainder of transaction 2, so Mr R received a full refund for 
transaction 2. Mr R said he had been passed to pillar to post to try to resolve his disputes, 
John Lewis agreed in a call to credit Mr R £16 for transaction 1. Mr R asked for this to be 
increased to £25 to settle his complaint, which was agreed.
Mr R says he was caused further inconvenience as he was told during a call that the refunds 
would be credited in his account within a day or two, but he later received an email that said 
it would take 15 days. He complained to John Lewis, he wanted to receive further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. John Lewis didnt uphold the 
complaint.
  
Unhappy with John Lewis response Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint, he thought Mr R had been fairly compensated, he 
didnt think John Lewis needed to do anything else.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point or particular piece of evidence, its not because Ive failed to 
take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our rules allow me to do this, this reflects our 
informal, free service as an alternative to the courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Generally, where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a credit card, the 
card provider can consider the dispute under two guises- chargeback and section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974. Here section 75 doesnt apply, because the value of the orders 
didnt meet the relevant amounts. So, the only option available to John Lewis was to pursue 
chargebacks.
A consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback and a financial business has no obligation to 
progress a chargeback through the later stages  if they dont think it will be successful. So, 
broadly speaking a financial business can decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But 
wed generally consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a 
reasonable prospect of success. When a chargeback is raised, the merchant then receives 
the chargeback and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it 
contests, then John Lewis can consider this alongside what the rules of the relevant card 
scheme, by Mastercard say. 
Transaction 1 
John Lewis incorrectly told Mr R that it couldnt progress a chargeback on Mr Rs behalf in 
respect of this transaction because he had authorised the transaction, but Mr R had never 
disputed this. Rather he had said the merchant had cancelled the order and hed not 
received a refund, which is a valid chargeback reason. However, John Lewis has since 
refunded the transaction in full, so I dont think Mr R lost out due to this mistake.
Transaction 2 
As Mr R only complained about part of his food order and had received a partial refund of 
£5.89 from the merchant in respect of the order, John Lewis correctly asked Mr R to provide 
evidence that he was entitled to a refund of the remaining transaction. Mr R said he provided 
further evidence, but I havent seen anything on the case file to support this and I note Mr R 
hasnt provided any evidence to show he did respond to the request for further evidence.  
Due to the lack of evidence to show Mr R was entitled to a full refund, I dont think a 
chargeback wouldve been successful. In the circumstances, I dont think John Lewis made 
a mistake when it didnt initiate a chargeback in respect of the remaining £11.24.
Customer Services
Mr R is unhappy with how long it took to resolve his disputed transactions, the 
misinformation given and his overall customer journey. To resolve Mr Rs complaint John 
Lewis agreed to credit him £11.24 to cover the remainder of transaction 2. Which means Mr 
R received a full refund for this transaction. Given I dont think a chargeback would have 
been successful in relation to transaction 2, I think this offer was fair. Mr R asked for John 
Lewis to raise this to £25 to settle his complaint. And John Lewis credited this sum.
Mr R says that he was past from pillar to post, trying to resolve his disputes, but having 
looked at the contact notes, I dont think this was the case. I appreciate that Mr R made calls 
to John Lewis about his disputed transactions, but I dont think it took an unreasonable 
length of time for John Lewis to credit his account. I appreciate it was frustrating to be cut off 
during a call when he was making a complaint, but as I can see from the contact notes the 
agent had a problem with their system, and Ive taken into account that he has already received £25 in respect of his customer journey, and he accepted this as settlement of his 
complaint, so I think this is fair.
Mr R notes that after agreeing to accept £25 as compensation, he was given misinformation 
about how long it would get the £25 refund. He wants additional compensation for this. 
Having listened to the call with the agent, where the agent agreed to credit £25, she 
explained that once the credits are reflected on his credit card account which takes two to 
three days, she would then request a credit balance refund to his account where it takes the 
direct debit from. And I think she clearly explained that the balance refund team had a 
backlog, and it was currently taking longer for balance refunds to go through. 
The agent then sent a follow up email to confirm the current timeframe for the balance 
refund was 15 working days. When Mr R chased the refund again, the agent confirmed the 
15 working day timescale again. So, I cant agree that Mr R was given misinformation. In the 
circumstances, I dont think John Lewis should pay Mr R further compensation in respect of 
this complaint.
I can see that John Lewis credited an additional 18p to Mr Rs card, which resulted in an 18p 
balance. This was removed and Mr Rs card was reflected as nil, this was the right thing to 
do, so I dont think John Lewis needs to do anything else in relation to this.
I appreciate that Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, but this is the final stage of our 
process. And we are unable to comment further with respect to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman