DRN-3030988
The complaint
This complaint is about four mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2006. Mrs P has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of 
her late husband, Mr P, and says Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out the policies to cover one mortgage  each policy seems to have been 
cancelled and replaced with a new one when Mr and Mrs P took out a further advance. In 
some cases this seems to have been done so as to take advantage of free periods of cover. 
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which include Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances at the times of the sales as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover in each case, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information 
here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought CBSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs P paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  it didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments it had previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint about the four policies. 
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided CBS 
should have disclosed the commission it received - but that CBSs offer to refund some of 
the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think CBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out in each case. I say this because CBS has sent in documentary 
evidence relating to each sale (and where it could not provide copies of Mr and Mrs Ps 
application forms, it has provided sample copies), and in each case I can see that Mr 
and Mrs P had to confirm they wanted PPI , and couldve said no if they didnt want it. 
CBS recommended some of the PPI polices for Mr and Mrs P, but others were sold on a 
non-advised basis. However, even if I consider all of the sales as though CBS 
recommended the PPI  so that it wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for Mr 
and Mrs P - this doesnt affect my decision as, on the evidence I have, I think 
recommending the policies was reasonable. We asked Mr and Mrs P for more 
information about their sick pay and savings at the time of each sale, but they didnt send 
anything in. But as the sales were over a fairly short period of four years, and Mr and Mrs 
P seemed to remain in the same jobs throughout, Ive based my decision on the 
evidence I do have about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances at the time of the sales. This 
shows that in each case the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. 
For example Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the cover and they seemed to have had 
limited means to fall back on, so they still seem to have had a need for cover. 
In each case, there was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ps employment or occupation which 
would have made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mrs P says Mr P had had a 
medical condition, she said this was diagnosed in 2011  after the sale of the policies. 
There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems.
Its possible the information CBS gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI policies wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take each policy out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr 
and Mrs P as I concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they 
were buying from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so 
it seems like it would have been useful for them had something gone wrong. Because of 
this I dont think Mr and Mrs P would have declined the policies had CBS done anything 
more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs P would have still taken out PPI. I think the policies 
couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I 
also think the policies were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. 
And in those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policies in any event.
Mrs Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant CBS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this particular complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means CBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P and the estate 
of Mr P.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided CBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
CBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
CBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs P about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this 
case. So taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the non-
disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
CBS and Mr and Mrs P was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because CBS didnt tell them about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case 
I dont think CBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs P because it 
failed to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mrs Ps representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary it has said Mrs P and the estate of Mr P should get back all the money paid for 
the policies because CBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs P about the high commission and profit-
share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because, 
it says, that meant the policies were poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshiphave taken out the policies had they known about the level of commission and Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- A court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
- The FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mrs P and the estate of Mr P in order to remedy the unfairness caused by CBS not 
disclosing the high level of commission to Mr and Mrs P before they purchased the 
policies.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policies in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mrs Ps representative suggests, driven to conclude that Mr and Mrs P 
wouldnt have purchased the policies but for CBSs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for CBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr and Mrs P paid for their PPI policies. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr and 
Mrs P having had the policies Ive concluded above they would still have taken out if CBS 
had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share 
levels.
So I consider that CBSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As CBS has already paid Mrs P and the estate of Mr P compensation on this basis, I dont 
consider it should do anything further. 
My final decisionOverall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint or make any award in favour 
of Mrs P and the estate of Mr P for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Coventry Building Society should pay Mrs P and the estate of Mr P an amount equivalent to 
the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable). As Coventry Building Society has already paid compensation on 
this basis, I do not consider that Coventry Building Society should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and the 
estate of Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman