DRN-3290426
The complaint
X and Mr O have complained that Aetna Insurance Company Limited (Aetna) has 
incorrectly declined a claim.
What happened
Mr O has a group private medical insurance policy, underwritten by Aetna. X and their child 
are covered under the policy. 
In 2020, X gave birth to their son prematurely. Their son was admitted into an intensive care 
unit for treatment. They made a claim which Aetna declined as it said an exclusion applied.
Mr O made a formal complaint and Aetna replied maintaining its decision to decline the 
claim. Unhappy, he referred the complaint to this Service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Aetna had done anything wrong as 
it had correctly applied the exclusion and the claim wasnt covered.
Mr O disagreed and in summary, he has made the following comments:
His colleague has provided the correct terms 
Aetna cannot prove that they were using the correct terms
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say Aetna should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy schedule confirms the limits to inpatient treatment and says:
All inpatient treatment needed for acute medical conditions that begin before the 
member is eight days old, if the member was conceived by assisted conception  Not 
covered. 
The terms and conditions set out the exclusions for new-borns:
Reproduction and New-borns  Costs of  any inpatient treatment for an acute 
medical condition that begins before the member is eight days old if the pregnancy 
was achieved by assisted conception
Assisted conception isnt defined in the policy and so Ive considered the ordinary meaning 
and Aetnas internal definition, as already set out by our investigator. She confirmed two 
definitions as follows:
A pregnancy that is conceived following fertility treatment, including pregnancies 
conceived through Intrauterine Insemination, In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) or any other 
Assisted Reproductive Technology, and pregnancies conceived within one month of 
using fertility medication.
The use of medical techniques to bring about the conception and birth of a child, 
including artificial insemination, in vitro fertilisation, egg and embryo donation, and 
drug therapy.
X was prescribed a fertility drug on 7 October 2019. She underwent artificial insemination on 
25 October 2019. As X was using a fertility drug, Aetna said the conception was assisted 
and so the exclusion applied. 
Having considered the above, I agree that as X had the procedure on 25 October 2019, she 
would have taken the drugs beforehand and so I dont think Aetna unfairly or incorrectly 
applied the exclusion. 
Mr O had told Aetna that the conception date had been placed as 23 October 2019 and that 
X hadnt taken the drugs. But Im not persuaded that this means conception wasnt assisted. 
Aetna explained what it had considered. If X had the procedure on 25 October 2019, she 
would have been advised to take the drugs beforehand and so its more likely than not that 
she did take the medication. Furthermore, conception dates are estimated and are not 
guaranteed exact dates of conception. 
Based on the above, Aetna declined the claim  which I consider it did fairly, in line with the 
policy terms and conditions.
Mr O made a subject access request (SAR) to Aetna and received and reviewed a number 
of internal emails in which Aetna questioned and clarified whether the correct policy terms 
had been applied. Mr O has provided this information to this office as he believes this shows 
that the claim should be covered. So Ive gone on to consider whether the correct policy 
documents have been used.
The policy documents
Aetna has explained that the internal emails and confusion arose as a result of specific 
policy documents referring to residents of Abu Dhabi to which the above exclusion doesnt 
apply. Ive checked the documents and reviewed the email exchanges and having done so, 
Im satisfied that the correct policy terms were applied to X and Mr Os claim. X and Mr O 
were not Abu Dhabi residents and so the exclusion applies. 
Mr O has sent a further email from a colleague who provided a copy of the terms and 
conditions confirming cover. Its not clear to me whether Mr Os colleague is a resident of 
Abu Dhabi. If Mr Os colleague is a resident of Abu Dhabi, then the cover will be different to 
his. And I can only consider the information relevant to X and Mr O. 
As this is a group income protection policy, the terms of cover would have been agreed with 
Mr Os employer. Aetna has confirmed and clarified that the correct policy terms have been 
applied and the internal confusion didnt affect Mr Os claim and that the documents 
available to Mr O on his portal were the correct documents. Mr O has also expressed a number of other concerns arising from his review of Aetnas 
internal correspondence following his SAR. But as Aetna hasnt had an opportunity to 
respond to any further complaints apart from its decision to decline his claim, I cannot 
consider them. My decision is limited to the complaint about the treatment being declined, as 
set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman