DRN-2706483
The complaint
Miss S complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited havent communicated with her 
appropriately about how much she owes after her car insurance policy was declared void. 
What happened
On 23 July 2019 Miss S crashed her car into some parked cars. The circumstances of the 
accident meant Advantage voided Miss Ss insurance  and they confirmed this on 
4 March 2020. This effectively means she had no insurance cover in place at the time of the 
accident  and means any costs her insurance company have to pay out to other parties 
would need to be paid by her. Miss S has accepted this, and it isnt in dispute. What is in 
dispute though, is the amount being claimed by Advantage for this.
On 4 March 2020, when Advantage confirmed cover had been withdrawn, they told Miss S 
the other partys claim had been settled. They set out the costs as £4,378.06 and asked 
Miss S to pay this. 
On 11 May 2020 Miss S received another letter  and this said the amount owing was 
£4,278.06. But, when she added up the figures, it came to the previous figure - £4,378.06.
On 8 September 2020 Advantage got in touch and said the final breakdown was £6,838.07.
Miss S wasnt happy with the increase in the costs, and says there were multiple spelling 
mistakes, so she complained. 
Advantage replied to the complaint and said in the May 2020 letter only some of the costs 
have been paid so far  and it was 8 September 2020 where they confirmed the final costs. 
Advantage reiterated how much the costs were and said Miss S needs to pay them. In a 
separate letter Advantage accepted theyd put no care in to the letters theyd been sending 
Miss S. They said sorry for this, particularly given how important the letters were, and paid 
£75 compensation.
Miss D didnt accept this and asked us to look into things  saying that how can it be fair 
theyve just increased the amount without explaining why. She added everything about this 
claim has been confusing and shes had to keep chasing for replies to her messages.
One of our investigators looked into things and overall felt Advantage had acted correctly. 
He said Advantage had justified why the amount was correct  and felt £75 for the errors in 
communications was fair.
Miss S wasnt happy with this. She asked for evidence of the costs to be sent to her which 
we did  but she still didnt accept things, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt that in this case Advantage communications have been poor. But, if the 
amount theyre asking Miss S to pay is the full and correct amount, then I cant ask them to 
not demand repayment of that amount. I realise this will disappoint Miss S, but for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain I do think the final figure theyve asked her to pay is fair. 
In the 4 March 2020 letter, theyve said The third party claim has now been settled as a 
heading, and then says The third party claim has now been dealt with on the best possible 
terms and settlement payments have been issued. The letter goes on to say, The total 
amount we require reimbursement for is £4,378.06. So, its not difficult to see why, at this 
point, Miss S believed this would be the full amount owed.
The letter dated 11 May 2020 does make reference to potential further costs  but explains it 
as follows Weve already paid for some costs as part of dealing with this claim. The letter 
then asks for £4,278.06 - £100 less than the first letter  but the figures provided do add up 
to the previous figure of £4,378.06 as Miss S said.
After this, four months later in September 2020 Miss S is asked to pay £6,838.07 and this 
letter says Please find enclosed a final breakdown. The descriptions given for the costs 
are different from what was said in the previous letters  and Miss S is being asked to pay 
substantially more without seemingly any notification in between about whats happening.
Given these letters, its not difficult to see why Miss S doesnt have any faith in the amount 
shes being asked to pay. The March 2020 letter does say, based on my reading, that all 
costs are accounted for and this is the final total  theres no reference to there potentially 
being more costs. The second letter has the incorrect figure for the amount owing  and the 
only reference to more costs potentially being owed is where Advantage have said weve 
paid some costs. This isnt clear what costs might still be outstanding, why there might be 
more costs, and why this is different from what she was told earlier. In addition, its got a 
different figure  overall then, I think Miss S is justified questioning the accuracy and 
contents of this letter.
The September 2020 letter also doesnt properly justify why theres been an increase in 
costs or explain why theres a difference in what amount Miss S is being asked to pay is for.
Having got the evidence of the costs, the true figure appears to be even higher than the 
figure provided in the September 2020 letter. It actually comes to £8,250.32. Advantage 
though have since confirmed they wont be asking Miss S to pay anything more than this 
final letter showed - £6,838.07.
Given the confusion over the costs, and seemingly the total lack of care by Advantage in 
communicating what costs are outstanding  this seems fair.
Ive thought about the compensation Miss S has been paid as well. I think the above 
information shows shes not been given clear information about the outstanding costs at any 
stage. That isnt good enough. But I also cant overlook that effectively because of that 
Advantage are now losing out on around £1,400. With that in mind, although I do think 
Advantage have handled things poorly, it doesnt feel fair to ask them to pay further 
compensation. So, Im satisfied £75 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss S case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman