DRN-1328317
 
The complaint
Mr L says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
What happened
Mr L took out a credit card  with HSBC in 1996. At the same time he took out a regular 
premium PPI policy to cover his credit card payments if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr L. 
Mr L disagrees. He says the policy was unsuitable as he was self-employed and wouldnt 
have covered him. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC needed to make it clear to Mr L that he had a choice in taking the policy. Mr L hasnt 
provided any real specific details about the sale which is understandable considering the 
amount of time that has passed. And HSBC havent given us any of the documents from the 
time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was 
presented.
From what Mr L has told us the policy was sold during a meeting. So I think it is likely PPI 
was discussed and from what we know about how HSBC sold PPI it wouldve made Mr L 
aware that PPI was optional and that Mr L had PPI because he freely chose to take it rather 
than anything else. And if he hadnt consented to take the policy I think he wouldve queried 
why it showed up on his credit card statements.
Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice or that he didnt agree to buy it.To put Mr L in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if HSBC advised Mr L to 
take the policy. What this means is that HSBC not only had to provide information about PPI 
in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr L could make an informed choice about 
buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was 
suitable for Mr Ls needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr L for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy and although Mr L was self-employed at the time the 
policy was sold this didnt make it any harder for Mr L to claim on the policy than an 
employed person. And it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the 
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mr L says he had no other means of making his credit card payments if he couldnt 
work. The policy wouldve covered  his credit card payments for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if he lost his job.
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr L at the time. 
And if he decided he no longer wanted the policy he could cancel it.
 
I also need to consider whether HSBC gave Mr L information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if HSBC did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr L has told us about his circumstances at 
the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means Mr L isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by HSBC.
But HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mr L, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
 
what HSBC needs to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back to Mr L any extra interest he paid 
because of that.HSBC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mr L the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest (15% 
before April 1993) if Mr L paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim back the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax. 
 
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr L.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman