The complaint
Mr M and Mrs N complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unfairly declined their 
landlord insurance claim for malicious damage caused by their tenants.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
RSA declined the claim because it considered the damage to have been caused by
general wear and tear during the tenants nine-year occupancy, rather than being
caused by a one-off malicious act. Overall, Im not persuaded its decision was
unreasonable.
Mr M and Mrs N point towards an inspection that was completed by the estate agent
three months before the tenants left the property. The report notes that the property
needs decorating and the carpets are worn and stained, but the rooms are in good
or fair condition. Mr M and Mrs N have claimed for a range of damage, and they
argue the inspection report shows the damage was done maliciously after the
inspection, shortly before the tenants left.
In my opinion, some of the claimed damage is similar to that noted on the inspection
report. I also consider it likely that some of the damage wouldnt have been noted by
the estate agents due to the limitations of the inspection or the furniture that was in
the property at that time. The report doesnt offer much detail, or demonstrate the
inspection was thorough.
Importantly, based on the photos of the damage and the descriptions given, Im more
persuaded the damage is from general wear and tear over time, or from accidents,
than from malicious acts. In my opinion, the issues dont suggest the tenants
maliciously set out to cause damage.
I accept the tenants left owing a few months rent, and without claiming their deposit
back. I also appreciate that Mr M and Mrs N would have hoped for their property to
have been better cared for. I also acknowledge that RSA incorrectly declined their
claim in the first instance due to it mistakenly concluding they werent covered for
malicious damage by tenants. However, because Im not persuaded the tenants
maliciously caused the damaged claimed for, Im not persuaded RSAs further
decision to decline the claim was unreasonable.
DRN-1656969My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Mrs N. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman