DRN-4177129
The complaint
Miss M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss M held a credit card account with Halifax which she opened in 2008 with an initial credit 
limit of £2199. The credit limit was increased to £2600 in December 2014 and to £3600 in 
June 2016.
In January 2017 the credit limit was increased to £4600 and in August 2017 to £5100. In July 
2018 it was increased to £5850 and in February 2019 to £6350 and then to £6850 in 
September 2019.
Miss M complained that Halifax had lent to her irresponsibly.
Halifax reviewed the credit limit increases from January 2017 onwards. It said that credit limit 
increases prior to this were outside of the relevant complaint handling time limits. Halifax 
didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had carried out proportionate checks before 
increasing the credit limit. 
Miss M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Halifax had completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks before increasing the credit limit and that the information didnt 
suggest that the lending was unaffordable.
Miss M didnt agree. She said she hadnt been able to afford to make payments to the 
account and that a family member had done so on her behalf.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Ms complaint.
Before increasing the credit limit, Halifax needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss M could sustainably repay what she was being lent. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But checks should take into accounts factors 
such as how much was being lent, the monthly repayment and the consumers individual 
circumstances.
Halifax carried out a credit checks and looked at how Miss M was managing her account.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks were reasonable and proportionate. Ive gone on 
to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive done this by looking at Miss Ms credit 
card statements, her bank statements and her credit report. 
Credit limit increase January 2017
Ive looked at Miss Ms credit report. This shows that Miss M was repaying existing 
borrowing to one creditor at £223 per month. There was no adverse information on the credit 
report. Miss Ms bank statements show that her monthly income was around £1820 in 
November 2016 and £1528 in December 2016. Ive reviewed the credit card account. Miss 
M was managing it well. There were no missed payments and she regularly paid more than 
the minimum amount. Theres nothing in the information Ive reviewed to suggest that Miss 
M was struggling to make repayments or that she was experiencing difficulties. Based on 
what Ive seen, I think the lending decision was fair.
Credit limit increase August 2017
Ive reviewed Miss Ms credit report, credit card statements and bank statements. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss M was struggling to make repayments or that her level of 
unsecured debt was increasing. Based on what Ive seen I think the lending decision was 
fair.
Credit limit increase July 2018
Miss Ms credit report shows that she was repaying existing borrowing at £86 per month. Her 
bank statements show monthly income of £1555 in May 2018 and £1690 in June 2018. 
There was no adverse information on her credit report and the credit card account was being 
managed well.
Credit limit increase February 2019
Ive reviewed Miss Ms credit report, credit card statements and bank statements. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss M was struggling to make repayments or that her level of 
unsecured debt was increasing. Based on what Ive seen I think the lending decision was 
fair.
Credit limit increase September 2019
Ive reviewed Miss Ms credit report, credit card statements and bank statements. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss M was struggling to make repayments or that her level of 
unsecured debt was increasing. Based on what Ive seen I think the lending decision was 
fair.
Despite the credit limit increases, I can see that Miss M didnt utilise these. The highest 
balance on the account was £4030. This suggests that Miss M wasnt reliant on the card as 
a credit facility. My review of the account shows that Miss M never missed any payments 
and often paid more than the minimum amount. I havent seen any evidence that a third 
party was making payments on the account for Miss M.
Taking all of the information into account, Im unable to say that Halifax lent to Miss M 
irresponsibly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman