DRN-2587529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about a shared ownership mortgage they had with Leeds 
Building Society (LBS). They are unhappy that, after the property was sold, they didnt 
receive a 25% share of the profit from the sale, in line with their equity share.
What happened
In 2006 Mr and Mrs W purchased a 25% share in a shared ownership property, with the 
assistance of a mortgage of £47,125 from LBS. The remaining 75% was owned by a 
housing association, and Mr and Mrs W were required to pay rent to the housing association 
under a tenancy agreement. They had the option of purchasing additional tranches of equity 
in the property (known as staircasing), until they eventually owned 100% of the equity in the 
property. If they did so, the rent would decrease proportionate to the equity share.
One of LBSs conditions was in relation to a Mortgagee Protection Clause.
1. Mortgagee Protection Clause 
1.1 The lease must contain a mortgagee protection clause which will protect the 
Society against any losses it may sustain should it have to take the property into 
possession, exercise its right to complete the final staircasing and assign the lease. 
1.2 The mortgagee protection clause should provide that the amount payable by the 
Society to complete the final staircasing shall be either: 
1.2.1 the sum as calculated under the terms of the lease; or 
1.2.2 the sale price less the total sum of the following: the total principal and 
interest (which shall not exceed 12 months) due under the terms of the 
mortgage; estate agents, legal fees and other costs and disbursements 
incurred by us in completing the final staircasing and assigning the lease; and 
rent, service charge or other sums due to the Landlord or due under an 
endowment or mortgage protection policy; whichever is the lesser amount. 
2. Staircasing The lease must provide that a mortgagee in possession has the option 
to (a) assign the lease as it is, or (b) staircase to 100% and then assign. There 
should be no time limits in the lease with regard to staircasing.
Unfortunately Mr and Mrs W experienced some financial difficulties and the mortgage fell 
into arrears. Mr and Mrs W left the property in March 2018, and it was sold by LBS as 
mortgagee in possession in October 2018 for £250,000, the price to include the purchase of 
the additional 75% equity, as provided for in the Mortgagee Protection Clause.
At the date of sale, there was outstanding rent due to the housing association of about 
£8,000. This meant that the housing association was entitled to 75% of the sale price of 
£250,000 (£187,500), plus the outstanding rent. If this had been paid, it would have meant 
that LBS would have received only 21.5% of the proceeds of sale, or about £54,500. But 
after invoking the Mortgagee Protection Clause, LBS was entitled to recover its full 25%.
LBSs share of the proceeds of sale was £61,500, out of which the mortgage was repaid, as 
well as the expenses incurred by LBS, as detailed on its breakdown of costs. There was a 
loss to LBS of £349.70, which I note LBS has written off.
Mr and Mrs W are very unhappy about this. They say that, after the mortgage of £47,125 
was repaid, they should be entitled to the remaining balance, as they held a 25% equity 
share and so should be entitled to 25% of the profit LBS made on the sale.
LBS didnt uphold the complaint, explaining that it was entitled to recoup the expenses of 
sale from the proceeds, and that there had been no surplus, but in fact a deficit. Dissatisfied 
with this response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at it. 
The investigator didnt think LBS had done anything wrong. Whilst sympathetic to Mr and 
Mrs Ws situation, she was satisfied that LBS was entitled to recoup its expenses out of the 
sale proceeds.
Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive kept my summary of the complaint brief, because the details of the complaint are set out 
in correspondence between Mr and Mrs W, LBS and our investigator, so I dont need to 
repeat everything that happened here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important that I dont include anything that might lead to Mr and Mrs W being identified.
Im also not required to answer each and every point Mr and Mrs W have made, but instead 
will concentrate on what I consider to be the material issue in the complaint  which is 
whether Mr and Mrs W are entitled any part of the 25% of the proceeds of sale which LBS 
received when the property was sold.
Mr and Mrs W appear to have misunderstood the position. They believe LBS was only 
entitled to recover the amount it had advanced under the original mortgage, so £41,725, 
which was 25% of the price they paid for the property, and that anything else LBS was paid 
over and above this was profit due to Mr and Mrs W. However, that would only be correct if, 
at the point of sale, there was only the original amount outstanding to LBS, with no other 
costs, arrears, interest or expenses owed. 
Under LBSs mortgage terms and conditions, it is entitled to recover all expenses in relation 
to possession and sale of the property, including the full mortgage balance, asset managers 
fees, solicitors and estate agents costs, possession costs and any other reasonable 
expenses. So when the property was sold, it wasnt just the amount Mr and Mrs W had 
originally borrowed  £47,125  that was owed to LBS, but all the additional expenses LBS 
had incurred.
Ive seen the breakdown of this, and Im satisfied that, after including all the expenses LBS 
was legitimately entitled to recover, there was a shortfall in the amount LBS received and the 
amount it was owed of £349.70. This was explained in the final response letter, where LBS 
also clarified that there was also outstanding rent and that, if it hadnt relied on the 
Mortgagee Protection Clause, the loss to LBS would have been much greater  around 
£20,000.So after considering everything thats happened, Im satisfied that there isnt any money 
owed to Mr and Mrs W. Thats because, in addition to the mortgage, they were also liable for 
the expenses and fees which are detailed on the breakdown provided by LBS.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W were hoping for, and I can see from their 
correspondence how strongly they feel about this and the effect losing their home has had 
on them. I am very sorry if my decision adds to their distress.
But for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that LBS hasnt done anything wrong here. It 
was entitled, under the mortgage terms and conditions, to recover the full amount owed to it, 
and unfortunately this didnt result in any surplus payable to Mr and Mrs W.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman