DRN-1520878
The complaint
Mr N complains that Rothesay Life Plc ("Rothesay") suspended payment of his pension.
What happened
Mr N said he emailed Rothesay in early May 2019 as he hadnt received his annual pension 
payment. Hed received a letter from them in June 2017 saying they would be taking over his 
pension policy. He said hed made contact in August and October 2017 informing them of 
two changes of address. The 2019 annual pension payment didnt arrive and left him out of 
pocket for a holiday and needing to borrow to make up for it. He wanted Rothesay to admit 
their fault and pay him £200 compensation for the late payment.
Rothesay said it suspended Mr Ns policy and annual payment because it had received three 
items of returned mail sent to the last address notified to it in August 2017. Two letters were 
returned to sender in 2018 and one in February 2019. It then suspended the account in 
accordance with its policies. It issued a letter on 7 May 2019 to advise of the suspension 
before the next pay date of 11 May 2019. It had not been aware of any further change of 
address after August 2017 until Mr N contacted them by letter in early May 2019. It 
immediately reinstated the policy and arranged payment only a few working days later. It 
also updated its address records and confirmed this.
The investigator didnt think Rothesay need to take any action. She noted that Mr N said he 
had updated his address first to a temporary and then permanent address in August and 
October 2017. Rothesay had record of the August conversation and noted his temporary 
address but nothing further. The suspension was due to returned post from June 2018 
onwards.
She said this service couldnt comment on the internal procedures adopted by the business 
such as stopping payments following the return of post. There wasnt any supporting 
evidence to show the call to further update the address. She wasnt saying Mr N didnt make 
the call just that there wasnt enough evidence to safely say Rothesay had made an error by 
not updating the address. When Mr N made contact about the payment he was told it would 
take 7 days but it took less time to reinstate payment. It was unfortunate he needed to 
borrow money, but she could not safely conclude that an error was made by Rothesay.
Mr N didnt agree. He said if the post was returned they couldve tried to contact him by 
phone as they had mobile details. The temporary address was a property owned by his son 
in laws mother who wouldve passed on any letter. 
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen copies of the original letters and returned envelopes for the letter sent in 2018 
and early 2019 so the evidence supports Rothesays statement that three letters were 
returned which triggered a suspension of his account and payment. I have seen a file note of 
a call and listened to the associated call recording of Mr N notifying it of a new address from 
19 August 2017. The address provided is the one to which post was then sent in June and 
November 2018 and February 2019, all of which were returned to sender. 
There is no other call note or recording regarding his subsequent change of address to his 
current one. What Rothesay says is supported by the evidence supplied. I can see that it 
wouldve been helpful for Rothesay to have telephoned after the three letters were returned, 
but I cannot direct Rothesays internal procedures.
There isnt any record of a call in October 2017 to notify of a further change of address. I 
cannot explain why the letters were returned to sender even though posted to a house of a 
relative, but the evidence is clear that the letters were returned. 
Mr N also queries why he was paid in 2018 on the normal annual payment date. Having 
checked the file it appears the two letters sent in 2018 were sent after he was paid so there 
wasnt an issue when payment was made in 2018. By 2019 a further letter had been 
returned which meant his annual payment for that year was suspended.
So while I am sorry to disappoint Mr N I dont think I have evidence to show that Rothesay 
made an error and failed to update his address records which resulted in suspending his 
payment. I also note it corrected the position very quickly once Mr N made contact.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman