DRN-2004017
The complaint
Ms S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund numerous card transactions and 
cash withdrawals from 2012 to 2019.
What happened
In June 2019 Ms S complained to Barclays she didnt recognise numerous transactions 
made with her debit cards to an online payment system and marketplace (who Ill call P). 
She brought her complaint to our service.
We confirmed in December 2019 the number and breadth of transactions to P Ms S was 
complaining about. She also told us about cash machine withdrawals from 2012 to 2019 that 
she was also disputing. We shared this information with Barclays. 
Barclays confirmed to Ms S in June and July 2020 that they wouldnt be refunding any of the 
disputed transactions. They felt there wasnt sufficient evidence to show shed not authorised 
those or made them herself. During the period Ms S had an account with Barclays (2012 
onwards), they noted shed raised other fraud claims showing Ms S monitored her account 
regularly. They were also aware that Ms S had regularly checked her online banking 
throughout this period so they were surprised shed never raised her concerns prior to mid-
2019.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence and came to a similar conclusion. He wasnt going to 
be asking Barclays to refund Ms S for the disputed transactions.
Ms S was upset at this outcome and asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She 
confirmed she never used her card to get cash out nor did she have an account with P. 
However she did confirm she generally wrote her PIN on the reverse of her debit card to 
ensure she could remember it. Shed been taking medication for her health for a number of 
years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Ss complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 and 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if 
they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply including 
whether a customer has acted with gross negligence. Circumstances that could be 
considered as gross negligence would include keeping a clear written record of a PIN with a 
debit card.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by Barclays and 
Ms S. Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 18 June 2020 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. The view also contained a run-down of some of 
the disputed transactions and their timing. I dont intend to repeat this detail either. Ms S 
provided our service with a very detailed rundown of the transactions she was disputing in 
December 2019. She can be reassured that Ive taken all of these into account here.
Ms S disputed over £3,000 worth of individual card transactions with P and many cash 
withdrawals totalling nearly £18,000 over a seven year period.
Ms S has told us shes never had an account with P. Her statements show numerous 
transactions made with her debit cards to P over a seven year period. During that period I 
know Ms S was issued with at least 15 different debit cards as she reported cards as lost or 
stolen or needing replacement. Any account with P would need to be kept continually 
updated with the correct card details to ensure their continued use. I can see from Barclays 
authentication records that this must have been done. 
I do find it unusual that someone was able to get hold of Ms Ss cards so regularly  and 
during the time the cards were in her possession and being used by her for genuine 
transactions.
Im also aware that Ms S regularly checked her account online or by using mobile banking. 
This is backed up by the way her account is managed throughout the period she had an 
account with Barclays. Ive reviewed all her banking statements. Ms S carefully managed her 
finances on a monthly basis. So for example she was regularly transferring money into the 
account to ensure she could meet her direct debit payments. I also believe she was trying to 
ensure her account remained in credit to minimise any bank charges.
This makes it doubly odd that Ms S only notified Barclays in 2019 that she was disputing 
such a large number of transactions with P and cash machine withdrawals. Shes told us that 
she only noticed these when she got statements in 2019.
Although Ms S has told us she didnt have an account with P, there are reasonably frequent 
credits to Ms Ss account with Barclays from P. These often happen at the time of payments 
outwards that Ms S is disputing. There is also a note on Ms Ss customer notes with 
Barclays that confirm she does have an account with P. Its more than possible that Barclays 
made an error in noting this so Ive not relied upon this information solely. But I do believe 
credits being made to Ms Ss account from P are strange. Ms S has provided no reason why 
these would be there if she didnt have an account with P.
Ms Ss representative responded to our investigators view by saying that Ms S never 
withdraws cash from a cash machine but if that were the case I would have expected Ms S 
to have noticed these withdrawals much earlier. Knowing the value Ms S is disputing  about 
£18,000  I think its hard to believe she wouldnt have noticed these withdrawals much 
earlier than she did.
Some of the cash machine withdrawals that Ms S disputed were on cards Ms S had only 
recently been sent. This suggests that if someone else was using her card, they had access to her cards on a regular basis and knew that new cards were being supplied. This clearly 
suggests that any fraudulent use was being carried out by someone close to Ms S. No hint 
of who this could be has been given to us.
Ms S has had a chequered history with her Barclays account. Before it was closed in May 
2020 by Barclays, Ms S had used more than 15 different debits card (and this included more 
than one different PIN being provided). Ive seen nothing to suggest Barclays provided any 
safety tips to her about keeping her cards and PIN safe which Id expect to see based on the 
difficulties she was having keeping her cards secure. This is particularly relevant when I 
consider that its been confirmed to us Ms S wrote her PIN on the back of her card.
I can also see that Ms S had raised more than 20 different disputes with Barclays previously 
(on nine different debit cards). This again adds to the evidence that Ms S was paying 
attention to the status of her account. I wonder again as this was evidently true why Ms S 
didnt raise her concerns about these disputes much earlier. 
Based on all the evidence Ive seen, I believe its more than likely Ms S authorised the 
transactions with P and the cash machine withdrawals.
It may also be worth adding that as Ms S wrote her PIN on the back of her debit cards, its 
more than likely Id not be asking Barclays to repay her for the cash machine withdrawals 
even if I believed theyd been done without her authorisation. Her actions are most likely to 
amount to gross negligence.
Overall Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Ss complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman