DRN-3494959
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable investment advice by Trade Facts Ltd (trading 
as Galvan at the time) to invest in Contracts for Difference (CFDs). He says that his advice 
caused him a financial loss. 
I refer to Galvan and, where relevant Trade Facts, throughout this decision
What happened
In September 2015 Mr S opened a CFD trading account on advice from Galvan. Galvan 
recommended trades until around April 2016, when his balance was too low to continue 
trading. 
In November 2020 Mr S complained. In short, he said he had been given unsuitable advice 
to invest in CFDs, and the risks werent properly explained to him. Galvan looked into his 
complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. It said that the CFDs which were 
recommended were in FTSE100 companies, and Mr S wouldve needed to agree to each 
trade. It said that client accepted the commissions and charges it levied, and these were 
clearly explained. It said that the high risks of trading CFDs were explained to Mr S and he 
accepted those risks. 
Mr S remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint, and thought it should be upheld. In 
short, she said that at the time Mr S clearly had limited investment experience  and only in 
shares and bonds. She said that this experience would not have given Mr S the knowledge 
he needed to understand the risk of this type of trading. Furthermore, she considered that Mr 
Ss attitude to risk wasnt in line with the risk that trading CFDs represented. She considered 
the fact that even though Galvan described CFDs as limited risk, Mr S still initially declined 
to go ahead. He only did so having received additional communications from Galvan. 
Galvan didnt agree. In short it said:
Although Mr S declined to open his account in 2013  he requested 5 reports from 
Galvan until he agreed to invest in CFDs in 2015. 
It didnt constantly approach Mr S  as above, Mr S requested reports which would 
also have required him to agree to being contacted by Galvan.
As Mr S had previous experience investing in stocks it believed he had enough 
knowledge to be aware of the risk he was willing to take when investing in CFDs. As 
Mr S had chosen a medium-low attitude to risk, his account was capped at £96,250 
which was 25% of his liquid assets. 
It also didnt agree with the compensation the investigator had recommended. It said 
that the proposed compensation calculation is incompatible with the product that Mr 
S was trading. 
It said that Mr S traded for almost a year without ever raising a complaint, even 
though he would have needed to give his consent to every trade that was placed on 
his behalf. It said that for someone who was active as Mr S on the account, if he had 
had concerns about the performance, he would have cased trading or raised queries. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
In September 2015 the Conduct of Business (COBS) rules on suitability explained that firms 
needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a decision 
to trade, is suitable for its client (COBS 9.2.1). 
The rules explained that (COBS 9.2.2):
 
(1) A firm must obtain from the client such information as is necessary for the firm to 
understand the essential facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing, 
giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, that the 
specific transaction to be recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
a. Meets his investment objectives;
b. Is such that he is able financially to bear any related investment risks 
consistent with his investment objectives; and
c. Is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his 
portfolio. 
At the time of the advice, Mr S was a retired business manager, with an average yearly 
income of £45,000  made up of £15,000 investment income and £30,000 pension. He had 
around £385,000 of liquid assets and said that his attitude to risk was medium low. Galvan 
said that he had earmarked £5,000 for speculative high-risk investment and that he had 
been trading shares and bonds for over 20 years. 
In looking through the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded it was fair and 
reasonable for Galvan to have concluded that trading CFDs was suitable for Mr S. In fact I 
think its clear that Mr S had doubts about investing, and the notes from his conversations 
with Galvan demonstrate this. In 2013 in the space of a month, Mr S tells Galvan the 
following:
trades shares, bought Chemrgin & Go Ahead Group on the back of our 
recommendation. Mr never heard of CFDs
Mr keen but wants to do a bit of reading up. Sent strategy email. Mr agreed to 
respond to this.
Mr keen but cautious. Med low but lots of liquid cash
Mr still mulling this over, keen but cautious, explain limited risk, mr going to have a 
think.
Mr still thinking, put off by risk. Explained limited risk / activity, mr going to have 
another think but basically decided against it. In May 2015, Mr S appears to have requested a report from Galvan  and as part of that, 
Galvan called Mr S six times between 20 May 2015 and 16 June. The notes show:
2nd pitch, suit & account open, suggested 5k start. Shown platform, needs to move 
funds around
Decided against it. Wasted my time. Claims is about time, knows thats why we 
provide service we do. Mentioned warnings online. Poss read bad review.
Eventually in September 2015, Galvan called Mr S again. This time he confirmed that no 
changes in relation to suitability. Galvan confirmed in its notes that given his risk profile, his 
account had been limited to 25% of his liquid assets - £96,250. It confirmed that his 
suitability had been assessed in 2013 and in June 2015, and that by September nothing had 
changed. A few weeks later, on 29 September 2015, Galvan reduced the commission it was 
charging Mr S as he had expressed unhappiness about the charges. There was no further 
comments of note until April 2016, when his balance was too low to trade.
 
I acknowledge Galvans distinction between cold-calling and what it did in this case, which 
is follow up a lead based on someone requesting one of its reports. Equally, when looking 
at the contact with Mr S, its clear to me that trading CFDs was not something he was 
considering  and not something he felt comfortable with. As late as June 2015 it was clear 
that Mr S still had misgivings about investing in CFDs  and from his earlier conversations, 
Im satisfied the high risk nature of CFD trading was very much the reason he wasnt 
interested. 
It wasnt for Galvan to persuade Mr S to do something he wasnt comfortable doing, or to 
convince him to take more risk than he was willing to take. And I agree with the investigator 
that, in addition to this clearly being outside his risk tolerance, Mr S also had no experience 
in CFDs. He had never traded them  and didnt even know what they were until he spoke to 
Galvan. In that regard, it isnt clear to me how Galvan was reasonably satisfied, by 
September 2015, that Mr S had the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of his portfolio 
(COBS9.2.2(c)). 
In my view, and as evidenced by Galvan itself, nothing had changed in Mr Ss 
circumstances. Theres no evidence that he had, since 2013, begun trading CFDs or knew 
anymore about them. Theres no evidence that his appetite for risk had increased or that he 
was now comfortable taking a speculative risk with his money  in fact the evidence shows 
that he was still medium low. 
I acknowledge Galvans point about the limited risk account being something offered by the 
broker  but I agree with the investigator that for an investor who had no experience of 
investing in CFDs, this would also have been confusing. A limited risk account didnt in 
reality make this a limited risk investment  there was still very much a high likelihood that 
all of Mr Ss investment would be lost. It simply meant, at the time, that he wouldnt lose 
more than his deposit. In my view, the high likelihood that he would lose all of his investment 
is not what Mr S meant when he explained he had a medium low attitude to risk. 
And having looked at Galvans own definition of medium low, Im satisfied Mr S would not 
have fully understood what he was being recommended he invest in:
You are a moderately conservative investor who is prepared to accept a small amount of 
risk. You may have some understanding of investment markets; however you are only 
prepared to put a limited part of your investment capital in stock market investments.Im satisfied that this definition would not have clarified to Mr S that these were not stock 
market investments  they were in fact high risk, leveraged trades, which exposed him to 
potentially significant fluctuations in the value of his investment, and to exceedingly high 
commission. 
Finally, whilst I acknowledge that Mr S appeared to have significant liquid assets, I think its 
important to note that Mr S was not on a particularly high income, and he was retired. Thats 
not to say that an investment of £5,000 was not affordable  but I wouldve expected Galvan 
to consider his financial circumstances, his ability to replenish the £5,000 in the event that he 
lost it all, and what that meant in relation to the suitability of the advice it gave him. Ive seen 
no evidence that this was considered. In my view, had the suitability of investing CFDs been 
properly considered, this aspect wouldve made it even clearer that it wasnt fair and 
reasonable for Galvan to conclude that it was suitable for Mr S to be investing in this type of 
high risk trading. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied that Galvans decision to advise Mr S to invest in 
CFDs wasnt fair and reasonable. I say this bearing in mind Mr Ss repeated reluctance to go 
ahead, lack of experience or knowledge about the product, reliance on retirement income 
and incompatible attitude to risk. This means that Galvan needs to do something to put 
things right. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
S as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. Ive considered Galvans comments about this carefully, but Im not persuaded to 
change the investigators proposed redress. 
The purpose of the method of redress set out below isnt to replicate the investment Mr S 
could or would have made at the time had he been given suitable advice. Its to 
compensate Mr S for the fact that he invested in an unsuitable investment. In other words, 
Im satisfied that, with suitable advice, Mr S would have invested differently even if it is not 
possible to say precisely what he would have done differently. 
However, it is possible use some assumptions about Mr S from what we know about him at 
the time. For example, its clear that Mr S had experience in shares and bonds, and thats 
what he was predominantly investing in. Its also clear that he had a medium low attitude to 
risk, which by Galvans own definition limited the types of investments he ought to have 
been advised to buy at the time. The purpose here is to, overall, compensate Mr S for the 
investment he wouldve made  the fact that the proposed remedy is incompatible with 
what Mr S was being advised to invest it is because that advice, for the reasons given 
above, was unsuitable. 
Given this information, I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Trade Facts Ltd (trading as Galvan) do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Trade Facts Ltd must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Trade Facts Ltd should also add any interest set out below to the compensation 
payable.
Pay to Mr S £200 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by being given 
unsuitable advice to invest in something which carried a high risk of capital loss  
and seeing those losses materialise.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
CFD trading 
accountNo longer in 
forceFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
account 
closed 8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Trade Facts 
Ltd should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Trade Facts Ltd should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Trade Facts Ltd totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
As an end date Ive specified when the account was closed. To be clear, what I intend is 
for compensation to run until Trade Facts ceased advising Mr S  either because there was 
no cash to trade with (so the date of the last refund or cash withdrawal), or because his 
account was closed. Therefore this is the end date that needs to be used when calculating 
compensation. 
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth with a small risk to his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. 
It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mr S' risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean that Mr 
S would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr S could have obtained from investments suited to his 
objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Trade Facts Ltd must pay the compensation 
Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman