DRN-2127985
The complaint
Miss C and Miss D complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) recorded information about 
them on a fraud prevention database in connection with a mortgage application. They say it 
was wrong to have done so, and they want the information removed.
What happened
Miss C and Miss D applied for a buy-to-let mortgage for a new property purchase in June 
2017. The application included the following questions:
Please tell us if the property will be let to a relative 
Will there be any existing tenants on completion
Miss C and Miss D answered no to both questions. BOI accepted their application and 
issued an offer in early July 2017.
A few weeks later, Miss Cs and Miss Ds solicitor got in touch with them, because the 
sellers solicitor had told her that Miss Cs parents were living in the property Miss C and 
Miss D were buying. She pointed out that the mortgage was subject to the property not being 
let to family members, and asked what the position was. Miss C and Miss D said Miss Cs 
parents were planning to move out after completion, but they could move out sooner if this 
was a problem. Miss C and Miss D then told BOI about the tenants and suggested taking the 
mortgage in Miss Ds sole name instead. 
A few days later, BOI withdrew its mortgage offer. It said it had decided to do so because it 
couldnt grant a buy-to-let mortgage to a borrower whose relatives were living in the 
mortgaged property.
Miss C and Miss D went ahead and bought the property with other means. In 2019, they 
found that BOI had recorded information on a fraud prevention database following the 
mortgage application. They complained. BOI said there were discrepancies in the 
information they had provided in their application, and it wouldnt remove the entry from the 
database.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and concluded BOI had reasonable 
grounds to make the entry. Miss C and Miss D disagreed; they felt strongly that this wasnt 
fair and said it means they face long-term implications.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer was subject to a number of special conditions, including that:
The borrowers obtain full vacant possession of the property on completion;
The property was not let to a tenant who was a close family member, including a 
parent; and
The borrowers or any close family members agree not to live in the property at any 
time during the mortgage period.
BOI issued the mortgage offer on the basis of the information it was given in Miss C and 
Miss Ds application. I think it acted reasonably in withdrawing the offer. It was provided with 
information which showed that the special conditions Ive listed above wouldnt be met, and 
the terms of the offer provided for it to withdraw the offer in these circumstances. 
Miss C and Miss D say they answered the questions on the mortgage application correctly, 
as they hadnt realised at the time that the property couldnt be sold with vacant possession, 
given that Miss Cs parents had a tenancy agreement in place until early 2018. It appears 
that there may well have been some confusion about the tenancy agreement. I have also 
noted what Miss C and Miss D have said about not charging Miss Cs parents rent and the 
plan for them to move out after the purchase. 
However, I think its quite clear that the plan was for Miss Cs parents to stay in the property 
in the short term. So they were to be tenants, even if not paying ones. That isnt the basis on 
which Miss C and Miss D applied for the mortgage, and it was contrary to the special 
conditions in the offer. 
Miss C and Miss D have said that they understood the mortgage offer and its requirements. 
But they didnt contact BOI to clarify the situation on receipt of the offer, despite the special 
conditions Ive listed. It was only when their solicitor queried the existing tenancy agreement 
that Miss C and Miss D looked into other ways to proceed with the purchase.  
In the circumstances, I can understand why BOI had concerns about the information it had 
been given. Lenders should only record information on fraud prevention databases where 
they have reasonable grounds to do so. Having weighed up all the evidence and arguments 
carefully, I dont consider BOI acted unfairly in recording the information it did here. In the 
circumstances  while I realise Miss C and Miss D will be very disappointed  I cant fairly 
require it to remove that information.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Miss D 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman