DRN-3273749
The complaint
Mrs B complains that that Everyday Lending Limited irresponsibly lent to her when she
couldnt afford the loan
What happened
In December 2019, Mrs B took out a loan with Everyday for £2,000 payable over 24 months
with a monthly repayment of £185.78. But said she struggled to make the repayments
having to borrow from family and friends. Mrs B said this caused her many sleepless nights
and has affected her credit history. She complained to Everyday.
Everyday said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks to determine Mrs Bs
financial position at the time of the loan. And on the evidence, theyd seen the loan was
affordable as after their repayment they said Mrs B was left with nearly £800 in disposable
income.
Mrs B wasnt happy with Everydays response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Everyday should have done further checks. And if they had they
would have seen Mrs B was earning less than the monthly salary amount theyd used in their
affordability calculation. And that although the loan was to be used for debt consolidation
the amount of the loan was insufficient to clear fully the existing loan commitment Mrs B had.
He said he didnt think the loan was sustainable for Mrs B. And that it had increased her
indebtedness. So, he said Everyday had acted irresponsibly in lending to her.
Everyday didnt agree they said their checks had been proportionate and had showed the 
loan was affordable for Mrs B. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 that said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mrs B would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs B
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mrs B required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether she could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mrs B. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mrs B herself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mrs B had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
her.
Everyday said Mrs Bs credit file didnt show she was having any difficulty in repaying
her existing financial commitments. It showed she had a couple of loans, several mail order
accounts and credit cards. Everyday also saw Mrs Bs latest bank statement and payslip for
the preceding month, November 2019, that showed Mrs Bs monthly salary of £1,450.44. As
Mrs B said she was living with her parents Everyday didnt make an allowance for rent. Her
monthly credit commitments they calculated to be £374.59 and for day to day living
expenses they used a standard industry percentage calculation compared to Mrs Bs income
that allowed for monthly outgoings of £339. Everyday understood the loan was to be used
for consolidation of borrowing, and this would suggest Mrs Bs credit commitments would be
reduced. Everyday calculated this reduction to be £244. Taking all of this into account they
said this would have left Mrs B with a disposable income, after taking the new loan
commitment of £185.78 into account, of £795.06 disposable income. Based on their
affordability assessment Everyday deemed the loan was affordable.
Ive looked at the information that Everyday would have seen. From Mrs Bs credit file, I can
see that she had recently opened up several mail order accounts, had three current
accounts and had a new loan taken out in March 2019 for £8,000. Her credit cards had low
credit limits and she had utilised these close to the limit. There was some reference to pay
day loans, but these werent recent. But there is an account in debt collection. So, it does
bring into question why Mrs B would need this loan when it wasnt enough to pay off her
existing loan. And her credit card limits were low enough for her to clear with the disposable 
income she appeared to have. So, I agree with our investigator I think Everyday should have
done more to establish Mrs Bs true financial situation.
Mrs B provided us with three months bank statements prior to her loan application. And I
can see from these her usual monthly take home salary was for each month £1,103.65. But
Mrs Bs payment to the credit union, around £244, is deducted straight from her salary. This
meant her remaining credit commitments were around £131. Mrs B has said she pays £250
for board as she lives with her parents. But I think Everydays calculation of other outgoings
using statistical data is a fair estimation for Mrs Bs living expenses - £339.. Taking this into
account, I think Mrs B would have around £450 disposable income. So, if Everyday had
seen the additional information I still think they would have considered the loan as affordablefor Mrs B. And I havent seen anything to suggest Mrs B wouldnt have been able to sustain
the repayment. Her bank account didnt fall into any overdraft, and she was maintaining her
repayments for her credit commitments. I havent seen any evidence of spending that would
question her ability to be able to sustain her repayments. So, I dont think Everyday acted
irresponsibly in lending to Mrs B.
From what I can see Mrs B fell into difficulty in keeping up her repayments around
September 2020 when she fell ill. But I can see that Everyday tried to help during this
difficulty time by providing a payment holiday, extending the loan period. And not adding any
additional interest onto the missed payments. Mrs B has now settled the loan account.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. But I think from what Ive seen the loan
was affordable and Everyday hasnt acted irresponsibly in lending to her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs B said shed told Everyday she was repaying a large repayment for a home collection 
loan at the time she took out the loan with them. And that shed had other successful 
complaints about irresponsible lending upheld. Mrs B provided details of her lending history 
for me to consider.
Everyday hasnt asked for any further comments or evidence to be considered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to change my thinking. Ill explain why.
Mrs B has shown a history of loans that shed taken out over several years. And I can see 
she had been in a cycle of debt. But from the information shes given I can see the loans 
from one lender were settled in 2017, before she applied for the loan with Everyday. I can 
also see evidence of home collection lending shes mentioned on her credit file, information 
that would have also been seen by Everyday. The credit fie shows these loans were settled 
between 2015 and 2018.
Mrs B said she was making a large repayment for a home collection loan at the time she 
took out the loan with Everyday. Mrs Bs credit file didnt show any evidence of this. And I 
havent seen any evidence of such a loan on the bank statement seen by Everyday or the 
banks statements Mrs B has sent to us. 
Everyday reviewed Mrs Bs credit file at the time of her application to understand her credit 
history and existing commitments. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan 
to have a credit history showing other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and 
these things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a 
loan application. As it can give the borrower the opportunity to repair their credit history by 
maintaining the new loan repayments.
Based on the information Everyday gathered, they concluded Mrs B would be left with 
disposable income after making her Everyday loan repayments and so they deemed the 
loan affordable for Mrs B.
Overall, given that this was Mrs Bs first loan with Everyday, the loan amount was relatively 
low with a short period of indebtedness. And shed said the loan was for consolidation which 
should have reduced her outgoings. I dont think there was anything in the information Everyday gathered that ought to have led it to a different lending decision. So, I dont think 
Everyday was wrong to lend to Mrs B.
I know Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Everyday has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in lending to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman