DRN-4265642
The complaint
Mrs D complains that The Enterprise Fund Limited trading as GC Business Finance (GCBF)
was irresponsible to lend to her.
What happened
GCBF agreed a loan of £13,000 for Mrs D in March 2019. The total amount owed was 
£15,136.28 to be repaid over five years. The first repayment of £297.25 was due in June 
2019, followed by 58 repayments of £251.52 plus a final payment of £250.87. 
I understand that Mrs D met her payments on time until early 2021. She didnt make
payments for three months and wasnt charged interest in this time. Following this Mrs D
made reduced payments and GCBF stopped charging interest on the loan in late 2021. As of
December 2022 Mrs D had repaid almost £5,800 and was making monthly payments of
£41.71.
In October 2021, Mrs D complained to GCBF about a letter shed received which showed via
the envelope window that the enclosed content was regarding a defaulted debt. She said the
information was clearly visible to third parties and this had a serious impact on her mental
health. Mrs D also complained that GCBFs assessment of her ability to meet her loan
repayments hadnt been robust enough, given the financial difficulties she was having.
GCBF didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. It told her that its letters had been correctly
addressed and that it had responded positively to her when she explained her circumstances
by putting her payments on hold. GCBF didnt comment on the affordability of the loan in its
response.
Mrs D referred her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt
recommended that it be upheld. They found that GCBF had carried out a reasonable
assessment prior to lending to Mrs D which didnt raise any concerns about her ability to
afford the repayments. They also found that GCBF wasnt responsible for the incorrect 
formatting of the letter sent to Mrs D which resulted in her information being visible to third
parties.
Mrs D didnt agree with these conclusions and asked for her complaint to come to an
ombudsman to decide and it came to me. I sent out a provisional decision on 26 June 2023 
explaining why I thought Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. I shared my reasoning and the 
information Id relied on and allowed some time for either party to provide further comments 
or information they wished me to consider when making my final decision. Mrs D agreed with 
my decision and Ive had no response from GCBF. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter again, and having no comment or new information to consider, 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out again in this final 
decision my reasons for upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
The complaint concerns a personal loan taken out in Mrs Ds name to be used to set up a 
business. Mrs D needed to complete a personal budget as part of her application. The 
Enterprise Fund Limited website1 explains that: This budget is designed to help us 
determine whether or not you will be able to meet your monthly Start Up Loan repayments. 
As a responsible lender, it is important that we believe you can afford a loan before offering 
you one and a Start Up loan is a personal loan that you invest in your business, you are 
ultimately responsible for making the monthly loan repayments, regardless of the state of 
your business.
Mrs D intended to use the loan to purchase a franchise and provided GCBF with the
franchise agreement, a business plan and budget. As Mrs D was ultimately responsible for
the loan repayments irrespective of how her business performed Ive started by reviewing
how GCBF assessed the affordability of the loan for her.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about personal lending - including all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. In summary, GCBF
needed to treat Mrs D fairly and with due regard to her interests when making its lending
decision. It would not be lending fairly if it targeted customers with regulated credit
agreements which are unsuitable for them, by virtue of their indebtedness, poor credit
history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
GCBF was required to carry out a creditworthiness assessment and to pay proper regard to
the outcome of that assessment in respect of affordability risk. In other words, GCBF needed
to check that Mrs D could afford to meet her repayments for the term of the loan, without
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse
consequences. The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks should be carried out
but GCBF needed take into account the nature of the credit (for example the amount
borrowed or the term) and Mrs Ds particular circumstances.
GCBF recorded Mrs Ds monthly net income from employment as £1,766 and checked this
against her recent payslip. It also recorded that she received child related benefit of £136 a
month and child maintenance payments of £898. GCBF recorded Mrs Ds expenses as
£1,965 and estimated that she had £835 spare each month.
GCBF also checked Mrs Ds credit file but couldnt provide a copy of the information it
gathered. It explained that it graded credit file information into four bands  one for declines,
one for good credit not requiring additional information and two for applications where
additional information was required before making a lending decision. GCBF considered that
it would need additional information from Mrs D before deciding to lend to her based on what
it saw on her credit file. I understand it checked Mrs Ds bank statements for the period 
20 September 2018 to 19 January 2019 before accepting her for credit.
It seems to me that on the face of it GCBF carried out a reasonable creditworthiness
assessment. It asked Mrs D about her income and expenses and gathered evidence of
these. However, I dont think it paid proper regard to the outcome of that assessment in
Mrs Ds case.
Ill begin by saying that I dont think GCBF should have automatically relied on Mrs Ds
maintenance payments as forming part of her income for the loan term. These payments
1 https://www.startuploans.co.uk/personal-survival-budget-templatewere being paid to Mrs D directly and there was no guarantee that they would continue to be
paid at this level throughout the loan term even if Mrs Ds children were eligible. Mrs D told
us her two children were in their mid-teens when the loan was taken out, and I can see
evidence of this on later bank statements. It was entirely possible that Mrs D could lose a
third of the money she had coming in before the loan had been repaid.
As the loan was for business purposes, it may be that Mrs D could supplement any loss of
her existing income with income derived from her new business. However, I dont think
GCBF could fairly rely on the performance of the business to mitigate the affordability risk to
her of not managing to meet her loan repayments over five years. Afterall, she was
responsible for meeting the loan repayments irrespective of the status of her business.
GCBFs assessment of Mrs Ds expenses included transfers of £1,150 and £600 into shared
accounts for bills, loan repayments and other expenses. Mrs D was also making payments
from her account for regular costs such as food shops, petrol, child-related expenses and
credit repayments amounting to upwards of £400 a month. Disregarding Mrs Ds
maintenance payments means the loan repayments were unaffordable from the beginning.
Mrs D provided a recent copy of her credit file and I can see from this that she had
considerable existing debts when this loan was agreed. These included a hire purchase
agreement, two loans, four credit cards and three mail order accounts. The hire purchase
and loan repayments amounted to £525 a month and Mrs D was paying approximately £150
to £200 towards her revolving credit. Agreeing this credit potentially committed Mrs D to
spending £1,000 a month on debt repayments  more than half her income from
employment. I dont think GCBF treated Mrs D fairly or with due regard to her interests when
it agreed to lend to her under these circumstances.
Ive concluded that GCBF was irresponsible when it agreed this loan for Mrs D.
As mentioned Mrs D had problems meeting the loan repayments. Her credit file shows she
took on more debt in the years after this loan but was unable to sustain her level of
borrowing and by mid-2022 Mrs D had defaulted on almost £17,000. I think agreeing this
loan for Mrs D impacted adversely on her financial situation and Ive set out below what
GCBF needs to do to put things right for her.
Mrs D also complained about communications shed received from GCBF regarding her
account. Shes provided evidence by way of a video and photo that a letter she received
showed via the envelope window that the enclosed content was about a defaulted debt. Part
of her address wasnt visible in the envelope window and the missing detail had been
handwritten on the envelope.
GCBF provided copies of two letters sent to Mrs D (in June and October 2021) regarding her
account being defaulted which are correctly addressed. It said that the formatting of the
address was correct and that it sends its letters to another company for printing and posting.
GCBF said that there may have been a formatting issue after it sent the letters externally for
printing and posting which caused the misalignment of the letter contents within the
envelope window.
A letter which isnt correctly formatted for the envelope in which it is actually sent may give
rise to problems with delivery and/or potential data protection breaches. It seems in this case
that the letter was delivered to Mrs D and Im unaware that anyone else acquired or made
use of the content. Nevertheless, Mrs D explained that she and her husband have separate
finances and he was unaware of her situation in its entirety. She said that the state of the
letter had a massively detrimental effect on her wellbeing and caused damage to her
marriage. She said I feel like Im currently in a crisis situation which is spiralling out ofcontrol, and as a direct result I am also experiencing some severe mental health difficulties
which I am getting professional support with.
As GCBF will know it needed to ensure that it didnt act in a way likely to be publicly
embarrassing to Mrs D and should have taken reasonable steps to ensure that third parties
did not become aware that she was being pursued in respect of a debt. I appreciate that it
used the services of another company in its communications process but it remained
responsible for its communications and the impact of these. Mrs D wouldnt have received
these communications but for the loan, which Ive found to have been unfairly agreed.
There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of
errors. We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when
making this decision. This approach (which is set out on our website) says that an award
between £100 and £300 might be fair where there has been a mistake which results in an
impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some distress, inconvenience,
disappointment or loss of expectation. I think an award in this range would be appropriate
here.
Putting things right
Ive concluded that GCBF was irresponsible to have agreed this loan for Mrs D. As Mrs D 
had the use of the money she borrowed I think its fair that she repays this but she shouldnt 
have to pay any interest, fees or premiums associated with the loan.
To put things right for Mrs D, GCBF should:
Cap the amount she needs to repay at the capital amount she borrowed, this being 
£13,000;
Consider all payments shes made as payments towards this capital amount;
Remove any adverse information about this loan from Mrs Ds credit file, once 
settled;
Pay Mrs D an amount of £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
its communications have caused.
If GCBF sold this debt it needs to work with the current debt owner to carry out the above
steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint against The 
Enterprise Fund Limited trading as GC Business Finance. It now needs to put things right for 
her as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman