DRN-4261787
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains about the decision by American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) to turn down their commercial insurance claim and avoid the policy.
Mr M has brought this complaint on behalf of H.
What happened
H held a commercial insurance policy with AIG that was taken out through a broker. H made 
a claim to AIG after a theft took place. 
AIG turned down the claim and avoided the policy because it thought H hadnt made a fair 
presentation of the risk when taking out the policy. Unhappy with this, H brought a complaint 
to this Service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought AIGs actions had 
been reasonable.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is a commercial policy, the relevant law that applies is the Insurance Act 2015. When 
taking out the policy for H, Mr M had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to AIG. In 
other words, he needed to tell AIG everything he knew, or ought to have known, that would 
influence it in deciding whether to accept the risk or not. 
Ive read the statement of facts that formed part of the policy schedule. This said:
Please review the facts shown below. You provided this information when requesting your 
insurance. If any of these facts are not correct, you might find youre not covered if you have 
to make a claim.
A number of statements were then listed, including:
Windows or skylights that can be reached (either from the ground or via roofs, pipework, or 
other structures) are locked with a key or are permanently screwed shut. 
And 
The main door to your business is secured by a five-lever mortice deadlock. All other
doors are secured by a five-lever mortice deadlock or key-operated security bolts.
Mr Ms response to the above statements was I agree. 
Windows
AIG says Mr M told the broker when making the claim that the windows werent secured at 
the property. Mr M disputes this and says the windows are screwed down and secure. 
Mr M has provided a photo of a window, but this is from the outside and doesnt show that 
its locked with a key or permanently screwed shut. However, AIG hasnt provided any 
evidence from the broker which supports that Mr M said the windows werent secured. So I 
dont think AIG has shown that Mr M breached his duty to make a fair presentation of the risk 
in respect of the windows.
Doors
The photos Ive seen of the doors show that the above statement wasnt complied with. 
Mr M has provided a photo of the main door to his business. This is the same door thats in 
AIGs photos, and it doesnt have a five-lever mortice deadlock. My understanding is that 
only timber doors can have this fitted, and the main door appears to be uPVC. Whilst a 
uPVC door can have a multi-locking mechanism in the door, I understand this usually has 
three locking points, which is less secure than a five-lever mortice lock.
Mr M says the other doors belong to his landlord, so I assume he means that he isnt in 
control of the locks used. But if thats the case, then it seems to me he shouldnt have said 
he agreed with the statement in respect of the doors. 
So I think Mr M breached the duty to make a fair presentation of the risk in respect of the 
doors.
Under the Insurance Act 2015, in order for AIG to take any action, it needs to show that the 
breach was qualifying. In other words, if it had been given the correct information, it either 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all, or the policy would have been offered on different 
terms.  
AIG has provided a statement from its underwriter which says that if AIG had known the door 
had a Yale lock, it wouldnt have accepted this as adequate security. However, the door with 
the Yale lock isnt the main door to the business. 
Though AIG also said that if Mr M hadnt agreed with the statement in respect of the door 
locks, it wouldnt be able to offer a quote and so no policy would have been offered. Ive 
carried out a dummy quote to check this, and this is correct. 
Im therefore satisfied there was a qualifying breach of Hs duty of fair presentation. As AIG 
wouldnt have offered the policy unless H had agreed with the statement in respect of the 
door locks, it was entitled to avoid the policy.
It isnt clear how AIG has categorised the breach, but since it has offered to return Hs 
premiums, Ill assume it thinks it was neither deliberate nor reckless. That seems reasonable 
to me. 
I recognise Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I find that AIG acted reasonably 
by turning down the claim and avoiding the policy.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman