DRN-3402250
The complaint
Mr E has complained about Premium Credit Limited, the finance provider for a students 
insurance policy which he had initially arranged whilst attending university. 
What happened
Mr E was at university and arranged a students insurance policy. He wanted to pay monthly 
and this was facilitated by a running account finance agreement provided by Premium 
Credit. Mr E didnt realise that the insurance policy was set up to auto-renew and whilst he 
left university in the summer of 2021, the policy renewed. And with the running account 
credit facility in place, Premium Credit financed the further years premium and took the 
monthly repayments from Mr Es nominated bank account. When the payments were 
noticed, the direct debit was cancelled, causing Premium Credit to write to Mr E. 
When Mr E became aware there was an insurance policy in place for him still, which 
Premium Credit was taking money for, he told his broker he was no longer a student and 
hadnt intended to renew the policy. The broker said he should ask Premium Credit for a 
refund. As Mr E was also unhappy as he felt that Premium Credit hadnt made him 
sufficiently aware that it would be taking further money from his nominated bank account, he 
complained to it. But Premium Credit didnt feel it had done anything wrong, it said it had 
emailed Mr E around the time of the policy renewal to advise of the further payments, 
although it couldnt provide a copy email. Mr E complained to us.
Our investigator felt it was most likely that Premium Credit had emailed Mr E regarding the 
further payments it was going to take. But she also felt that the agreement with Premium 
Credit really ran secondary to the insurance policy. Taking everything into account she didnt 
feel it would be fair or reasonable to uphold the complaint against Premium Credit. 
Mr E said he had asked his broker about a refund, but they had referred him to Premium 
Credit. He said really this came down to whether he was believed  that he did not receive 
an email from Premium Credit, or Premium Credit was believed  that one was sent. His 
complaint was passed for consideration by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr E is frustrated by Premium Credits position in respect of his complaint. 
But, similar to our investigator, I bear in mind that the finance agreement ran secondary to 
the insurance policy. If the insurance had not renewed, then no further money could or would 
have been taken by Premium Credit. And whilst I see Mr E has spoken to his broker about a 
refund, I dont know if he has approached the insurer for the policy direct. Or whether he has 
put to either of them the premise that an insurer cant reasonably keep premium payments 
for a risk it wasnt actually offering cover for. Im not persuaded that Premium Credit did 
anything wrong in continuing to offer a facility that had reasonably been arranged previously 
and it had not been told to stop providing. Where, in fact, the broker had notified it that the 
insurance policy had renewed.
I believe Mr E when he says he has not seen and cannot find an email from Premium Credit, 
advising him of the further payments. But I also have no reason to disbelieve that Premium 
Credit sent him an email. There might be any number of reasons why a sent email is not 
seen or received. And Premium Credit, generally speaking, isnt liable for ensuring that the 
communications it sends are received. Im not persuaded that Premium Credit failed Mr E in 
this instance.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Premium Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman