DRN-2848098
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the level of compensation offered to him by Bank of Scotland plc 
(BOS).
What happened
Mr G held an Individual Savings Account (ISA) with BOS. In May 2020, Mr G requested that 
the ISA be closed and fund the funds to be sent to an investment firm in order that the funds 
might then be invested in a specific investment offered by that firm.
BOS closed the ISA as Mr G requested, but the cheque that BOS sent to the investment firm 
was post-dated, meaning that the cheque couldnt be enchased immediately and thus 
delaying Mr Gs intended investment. This resulted in Mr G purchasing less units in the 
investment and at a higher price. M G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Gs complaint. They acknowledged that they had caused a delay in Mr G 
being able to make the investment that hed wanted to, so they agreed to reimburse Mr G 
the increase in the cost of the intended investment up to the point of their response to Mr Gs 
complaint  which amounted to approximately £1,750  so that Mr G wouldnt lose out by 
having to make the investment at the later date and could purchase the number of units that 
he had originally intended. BOS also offered to make a payment of £200 to Mr G to 
compensate him any inconvenience the matter may have caused.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One 
of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that BOSs response did represent 
a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened, so they didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint.
Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt disputed by either party that BOS delayed Mr Gs intended investment by post dating 
the cheque that they sent to Mr Gs nominated investment firm when they closed the ISA. 
What is disputed here is whether the corrective action and amount of compensation BOS 
have offered to Mr G represents a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint.
In circumstances such as this, where a business has made an error which has led to a 
customer incurring a material loss, what this service would expect would be that the 
business in question would take corrective action so as to ensure that the customer is 
returned to the financial position that they would have been in, had the error not occurred. It 
would also be expected by this service that the business would make an offer of payment to 
that customer to compensate them for any upset and inconvenience incurred.
I think that BOS have done that here. They offered to make a payment to Mr G to cover the 
increase in the unit prices of the investment to ensure that Mr G wasnt out of pocket by 
having to pay more for the investment than he would otherwise have done. BOS also offered 
Mr G a further payment of £200 as compensation for the inconvenience incurred.
Mr G had been able to purchase a number of investment units, albeit not the amount that he 
had initially wanted to purchase because of the increased cost of the units which had risen 
during the delay. 
This meant that the amount of financial loss that Mr G had incurred was a known factor and 
that BOS were able to offer Mr G the payment equal needed for him to purchase the 
additional units required, at the unit price at that time, so that the number of units that Mr G 
held was the amount the he had originally intended. BOSs intent here was to restore Mr G 
to the position that he would have been in had the delay never occurred, and BOSs offer 
here is what this service would have expected BOS to have offered, given these 
circumstances. 
Mr G didnt accept BOSs offer. It was of course Mr Gs decision whether to accept the offer 
made to him or not. But I am satisfied that the offer that BOS made here was fair and 
reasonable and did restore Mr G, at that time, to the financial position that he would have 
been in had the error not occurred. 
Mr G has expressed to this service that he doesnt feel that BOSs offer of compensation 
goes far enough and hes listed several other factors that he wants BOS to compensate him 
for. However, being satisfied as I am that the offer made by BOS did put Mr G back into the 
financial position that he should have been in, had the delay never occurred, and also 
included a fair level of additional compensation for Mr G in light of the inconvenience he may 
have incurred, its difficult for me to be convinced by Mr Gs position here.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr G was wanting, but it follows that I that wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking BOS to take any further action at this time - beyond 
that to which theyve already agreed. I hope that Mr G can understand, given everything Ive 
explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman