DRN-3610977
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (AmEx)
reported adverse information to his credit file.
What happened
Mr M had an AmEx charge card which he used regularly and to which he made regularly
monthly payments without incident. In March 2020, Mr M didnt make the full payment that
was due on his AmEx account because of the financial impact of Covid-19, which was
emerging globally at that time.
Mr M contacted AmEx in April 2020, and arranged for a payment holiday to be put in place
on his charge card account. However, Mr M later noticed that AmEx were reporting a late
payment and continuing arrears on his account to the credit reference agencies. Mr M wasnt
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
AmEx looked at Mr Ms complaint, but they noted that the late payment marker referred to
the payment that Mr M had missed on the account before hed contacted AmEx and
arranged the payment holiday, and so they didnt feel that they were acting unfairly towards
Mr M by reporting the continuing arrears on the account that they were.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with AmExs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt fell that AmEx were
acting unfairly towards Mr M, and so they also didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 June 2022, as follows:
In April 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published temporary guidance
regarding the provision of three-month payment holidays to eligible consumers who 
were experiencing difficulty meeting the payments due on their credit accounts 
because of financial difficulties brought about by the impact of Covid-19. The FCA 
guidance included that, for these three-month payment holidays only, the reporting of 
these payment holidays to the credit reference agencies would be suspended, so 
that an eligible consumer who benefited from such a payment holiday didnt have 
their credit file impacted by doing so.
In this instance, when Mr M contacted AmEx in April 2020, hed already missed a 
payment on his account, only making a partial payment of £1,000 rather than the full 
outstanding payment of over £3,000 that was due to be paid that month, as per the 
terms of the charge card account.
That meant that Mr M already had arrears on his account before he was granted the 
FCA prescribed payment holiday by AmEx, and so I can understand why AmEx 
continued to report those arrears, given that they were in place before the payment 
holiday started.
But, while I dont feel that AmEx have technically done anything wrong here, I feel 
that the spirit and purpose of the FCA guidance was clear, in that it was designed to 
protect consumers who had managed their credit commitments without incident up 
until the onset of Covid-19, but who were in danger of incurring adverse reporting on 
their credit files solely as a result of the impact of Covid-19.
Having considered Mr Ms payment history, I feel that he fits the criteria described 
above. And I say this because its clear that Mr M did use the charge account 
regularly and that up until the emergence of Covid-19 hed been able to make 
monthly payments in line with the requirements of the charge card account, such that 
he hadnt incurred any adverse credit file reporting up to that time.
Additionally, Im also satisfied that it was only because of the onset of the Covid-19
pandemic, and the unprecedented effects that the pandemic had on the UK economy 
and the ability of consumers such as Mr M to meet their ongoing credit commitments, 
that Mr M wasnt able to continue making the required monthly payments towards the 
charge card account that he had been making before the pandemic emerged.
So, while I dont feel that AmEx can be said to have done anything wrong in how they
managed the account, I do feel that in the interests of fairness, and with the purpose 
of the FCA guidance in mind, that AmEx should retrospectively backdate the start of 
the FCA prescribed payment holiday that they provided to Mr M to cover March 2020.
This would mean that the applied payment holiday would have met the purpose it 
was designed for. Specifically, to ensure that Mr M didnt incur any adverse reporting 
on his credit file, where none had existed before, solely because of the impact of 
Covid-19. And I can confirm that I will be provisionally upholding this complaint in Mr 
Ms favour and provisionally instructing AmEx to amend their credit file reporting on 
that basis.
This would mean that the payment holiday would have covered March, April, and 
May 2020, and that Mr M would have then been eligible for a further three month 
payment holiday following that period which would have covered him until the time 
that he was able to clear the balance outstanding on the charge card account around 
August 2020. This would have therefore meant that Mr M wouldnt have incurred any 
adverse reporting on his credit file, and my provisional instruction to AmEx is 
therefore that they must amend Mr Ms credit file reporting to remove all adverse 
reporting accordingly.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr M and AmEx the opportunity to provide any 
comments or information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final decision.
AmEx explained that while they understood the reasoning behind my provisional decision, 
they noted that they hadnt received any notice from Mr M that hed been in financial difficulty 
until May 2020, by which time he was already in multiple arrears on his account. AmEx also 
reiterated their obligation to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, which 
they feel that theyve done.I can appreciate AmExs position here, and as Ive mentioned in my provisional decision 
letter, I dont feel that theyve done anything technically wrong in how theyve managed this 
situation. However, I do feel that the unique circumstances that surrounded the emergence 
of the Covid-19 pandemic merit a greater degree of leeway in some situations than might 
usually be the case.
Additionally, while Mr M may not have explained verbally to AmEx that he was experiencing 
financial difficulties until May 2020, he did attempt to enrol into AmExs Covid-19 relief 
payment programme in April 2020  an action which I feel should be considered as being a 
de-facto declaration of actual or projected financial difficulty.
Ultimately, it remains my position here that the FCA guidance surrounding three-month 
payment holidays was intended to prevent exactly what happened here, which was that a 
consumer who had until that time managed his credit commitments without significant 
incident found himself struggling to meet his credit commitments because of the unforeseen 
and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the emergence of Covid-19.
And while I dont feel that AmEx did anything technically wrong here (which is why Im not 
instructing any form of compensation payment) I do feel that a fair outcome  in these 
specific unique circumstances  is that Mr Ms credit file shouldnt be adversely affected, 
especially given that he applied for the very FCA prescribed assistance that was intended to 
protect him.
All of which means that my final decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms 
favour on the same basis as outlined in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AmEx must amend Mr Ms credit file to remove all adverse reporting from March 2020 
onwards, including the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against American Express Services
Europe Limited (AESEL) on the basis explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman