DRN-2237103
The complaint
Mrs O says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
her. Mrs O says the lending was unaffordable for her and she had to borrow further.
What happened
This complaint is about four short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs O between 
September 2015 and May 2019. There are two chains of borrowing. Mrs Os borrowing 
history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 07/09/2015 15/03/2016 6 £300.00 £141.20
2 15/03/2016 15/09/2016 6 £400.00 £163.38
Break in lending
3 28/11/2018 15/05/2019 5 £250.00 £101.20
4 30/05/2019 Outstanding 12 £750.00 £158.29
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Os complaint and thought Mr Lender had carried out 
sufficient checks about Mrs Os financial circumstances before it lent to her. They didnt think 
it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to have obtained the amount of information 
needed to show the lending was unsustainable for Mrs O. 
Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicator. She reiterated that she had other short-term lending at 
the same time she was borrowing from Mr Lender and would have to borrow more to get 
through the month. But this didnt change the adjudicators assessment. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs O could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Os complaint. After doing so, I dont think Mr Lender 
was wrong to lend to Mrs O. Ill explain why. 
I should first say that I agree there are two chains of borrowing in the lending relationship. 
There was a break of over two years between loan two being repaid and loan three being 
taken. So, I dont think it would have been unreasonable for Mr Lender to conclude that    
Mrs O had overcome whatever the financial circumstances were that caused her to take 
high-cost credit in the first instance. A break in a chain of lending, in effect, starts the clock 
ticking again on what we would consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry 
out when taking into account the length of the borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
Given what Mrs O told Mr Lender about her income, the monthly repayment amounts and 
that for both chains this lending was early in the lending relationship, I dont think it would 
have been proportionate for Mr Lender to have asked Mrs O for further information that 
would be needed to show that lending was unsustainable for her. 
For the loans one and two, Mrs O confirmed her monthly income was £1,880 and monthly 
expenditure was around £1,540. For loan three Mrs Os income was recorded as £1,970 and 
expenditure as £1,270. And for loan four, income was recorded as being £1,905 and 
outgoings as £1,294. The recorded expenditure included any repayments on any other loans 
Mrs O declared. Looking at the income and outgoing amounts Mrs O I was left with a 
sufficient disposable income each month to make the monthly loan repayments. I dont think 
there would have been any reason for Mr Lender to have looked further into Mrs Os financial circumstances at such an early period of her borrowing relationship as the lending 
in both of the chains looked affordable on a pounds and pence basis. 
Mr Lender has told us of the credit checks it carried out at the beginning of its relationship 
with Mrs O. Mrs O has been able to give us a copy of her credit report and bank statements 
from the time of the borrowing (for loans three and four) and its clear from the statements 
that Mrs O was using other short-term credit providers. But as Ive said above, at the 
beginning of a borrowing relationship I think less thorough checks by the business might be 
reasonable and proportionate. And Im also aware that the information a prospective lender 
can obtain from its own credit check isnt necessarily the same as the information Mrs O may 
have seen from her own credit report. 
It's possible that Mrs Os actual financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in the 
information she provided, or the information Mr Lender obtained as a result of its own credit 
checks. And Mrs Os actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But Mr Lender could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as both chains were still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont 
think it was evident there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for Mrs O. In 
these circumstances, I dont think Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mrs O for evidence of her income and outgoing which 
as Ive said, Mr Lender could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, 
as examples.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for these loans were 
proportionate. I think its decision to lend to Mrs O was reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs O will be extremely disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been 
able to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman