DRN-2115304
The complaint
Mr C applied for three buy-to-let mortgages with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham 
Midshires and is unhappy with what happened. He says the purchases shouldnt have been 
agreed as his professional advisers acted in a fraudulent manner, and he feels Birmingham 
Midshires should have identified the problems.
What happened
In 2011 Mr C applied for three buy-to-let mortgages with Birmingham Midshires for 
properties hed decided to buy. One property has since been sold and the mortgage 
redeemed, but the other two properties are still owned by Mr C with the mortgages still in 
force.
Mr C says the properties were worth a lot less than he paid, and his solicitor has since been 
struck off for misconduct in mortgage transactions.
Our investigator said we couldnt deal with a complaint about the surveyor or solicitor, only 
about Birmingham Midshires actions or inactions. And having considered the complaint he 
thought Birmingham Midshires hadnt done anything wrong. Mr C didnt agree and so its 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr C wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way that 
I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what 
I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole file, 
Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its 
not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order 
to reach the right outcome. 
Birmingham Midshires doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the 
services of a surveyor. When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  
a requirement that was fulfilled for these applications by appointing a member of the Royal 
Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Birmingham Midshires isnt accountable for the conduct 
of the individual surveyors or any acts (or omissions) by the surveyors or the firm they work 
for. 
Birmingham Midshires is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant 
consider complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). The 
surveying firms complaints process comes under the Centre for Effective Dispute Resolution 
(www.cedr.com). All I can consider against Birmingham Midshires is if it discharged its duty 
in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and, having considered everything, Im satisfied it 
did.
I also cant consider the conduct of the solicitor Mr C appointed; nor can I hold Birmingham 
Midshires liable for the solicitors - or his firms - acts and/or omissions. Birmingham 
Midshires is entitled to rely upon the professional expertise of the firm of solicitors Mr C 
appointed and, at the time in question, it had no reason to check their work or believe they 
were acting in any way inappropriately.
The mortgages were arranged by third-party mortgage brokers unconnected to Birmingham 
Midshires. The application forms were filled in and submitted to Birmingham Midshires, 
which set up the mortgages as requested. It seems Birmingham Midshires neither met with 
nor spoke to Mr C, and it didnt give him any advice about the suitability of the mortgages or 
whether the purchase prices hed agreed to pay were fair.
Where a mortgage application is made through a third-party mortgage broker, such as 
happened here, theres no obligation on the part of the lender to replicate the role of the 
mortgage broker. At the time these mortgages were sold, the responsibility for any advice 
that may have been given about suitability lay with the mortgage brokers rather than with the 
lender.
The lender had a duty to lend responsibly which, generally speaking, it could at the time 
discharge by relying on the information supplied by the mortgage broker and the other 
professional representatives (such as the surveyor and solicitor). If, in a lenders commercial 
judgement, it was satisfied with the information provided by the mortgage broker it was 
within its rights to do so. There was no regulatory requirement at that time for it to validate 
the information or check the suitability of the advice. I can only consider this complaint based 
on the regulations and normal industry practice at the time, and without the use of hindsight.
Mr C has said I have been unable to contact the broker. He was barred from practicing law 
there is no prospect of a successful civil court action; to the best of my knowledge, he is a 
bankrupt and has no assets. But the two mortgages that are still in force were introduced 
(as shown on both the application forms and the mortgage offers) by a mortgage broker firm 
that is still currently registered with the Financial Conduct Authority as an Appointed 
Representative of the same large network as it was in 2011. The mortgage broker firm also 
has a current website and appears to be trading as normal.
I cant put the details of the mortgage broker firm (or the network it is part of) in this decision 
as theyre not party to this complaint, but if Mr C contacts our investigator he can provide the 
details. Otherwise if Mr C goes to https://register.fca.org.uk and enters the mortgage broker 
firms name and postcode (which can be found at the end of the Contact Details of one of 
the mortgage offers, just below section 14 Where can you get more information about 
mortgages?) then the details can be seen.
The third mortgage - that was repaid in 2016 - was shown on the application form and 
mortgage offer to have been introduced by a different mortgage broker firm which was (and 
still is) an Appointed Representative of a different large network. Again, those details can be 
found at the end of the mortgage offer as Ive explained above.
At the time in question  which is all I can consider here  Birmingham Midshires simply had 
no reason (or responsibility) to do any of the things Mr C has raised. Mr C chose to buy the 
three properties and chose how much he was willing to pay for them, one would presume 
after undertaking his own research as to house prices in the areas in question. Birmingham 
Midshires simply processed the mortgage applications that had been made to it and saw no 
reason to decline Mr Cs requests for mortgage funds to assist him in the purchases he 
wanted to make. None of the parties involved in this transaction were agents of Birmingham 
Midshires; the businesses in question just didnt have that relationship.If Mr C feels there are legal challenges to be made here then he is free to take matters to 
court, but before he does so Id recommend he obtain specialist professional legal advice. 
As far as the Financial Ombudsman Service is concerned, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman