DRN-3127053
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Home and Travel Limited (HTL) which sold him a caravan 
insurance policy via a price comparison website. Mr S has also complained about the 
comparison website as well as the insurer. Im dealing separately with the complaint about 
the insurer, and given my findings below, the complaint about the comparison site will fall 
away (so well close it).
What happened
Mr S was looking for a policy for his caravan. Using a price comparison website he selected 
the type of cover he wanted to see quotes for  new for old. He then selected to see more 
details about the policy being offered by Home and Travel, eventually purchasing that cover. 
Later Mr Ss caravan was stolen and he made a claim to the insurer. The insurer said that as 
the caravan was more than five years old, it would only settle the claim based on its market 
value, not its cost to replace as new. Mr S felt that didnt meet with the type of cover he 
thought hed bought and complained.
HTL said that as the policy had been arranged online it hadnt had the opportunity to speak 
to Mr S. It said though that the policy documents contained details about relevant terms and 
conditions and the restrictions on the new for old cover are clearly set out.
Our investigator said that in respect of this complaint, we couldnt consider the content of the 
price comparison website. He also felt that HTL hadnt undertaken, during the application 
process to give Mr S any advice about the suitability of the policy and Mr S hadnt sought 
any clarification from it. Our investigator also felt that HTLs website hadnt purported to only 
sell new for old cover and he felt the policy documents were clear. So he felt the policy 
hadnt been mis-sold. Mr S remained unhappy and the complaint was passed to me.
I wasnt persuaded to uphold the complaint. But my reasoning for that differed from that set 
out by our investigator. So I issued a provisional decision to inform both parties of my views. 
My provisional findings from that decision were: 
I can consider the application process as a whole in this complaint against HTL. Thats 
because as it was selling policies via the price comparison website this service considers it 
has adopted the website as its own. 
The policy was sold on a non-advised basis. And Mr S didnt speak with HTL with a view to 
clarifying any cover details. It was always up to Mr S to ensure the policy met his needs. 
However, HTL, as must any insurer, regardless of the basis and nature of sale, must 
highlight to any prospective policyholder, any significant and unusual terms of the cover. 
Mr S had asked to be told about new for old cover. And a policy which appears to offer new 
for old cover is suggesting theres a really good benefit for the policyholder. So I think its fair 
to say that any term which then seeks to remove that cover is significant. But Im not 
persuaded its necessarily an unusual term. If I accept for a minute it is unusual, Ive thought 
about whether it was highlighted to Mr S during the sale.
I note that when Mr S selected new for old cover, he was presented with the option of 
reviewing two prospective quotes, one of which was from HTL. When he clicked on the HTL 
icon, and before being forwarded to HTLs own site, he was presented with some key details 
about the cover. That key detail included a short list of bullet points entitled Helpful 
Information, with the title in bold lettering which was of a larger font than the standard text 
on the page. The fifth bullet of six said:
New For Old on Vans under 5 years old.
I think this is enough to say the significant, if not unusual, restriction to the new for old cover 
which Mr S had said he wanted to receive quotes for, was highlighted for his attention. So 
Im not persuaded that HTL failed Mr S by not telling him about important policy information.
Im also satisfied that the policy booklet clearly explains the basis for settlement. It says that 
settlement will be on a new for old basis as long as the caravan is less than five years old. 
And following agreeing the policy Mr S did have a cooling off period within which he could 
check the policy met his needs and cancel if he wished to.
Its regrettable that Mr S didnt either see the policy terms about the basis of claim 
settlements or note the bulleted helpful information during the website application. But Im 
not persuaded that HTL mis-sold the policy to him.
HTL didnt respond. Mr S told us he felt it was unfair that I had found in favour of HTL and he 
queried what would now happen in respect of his complaint about the comparison website. 
He said the insurer had agreed theyd been mis-sold the policy and that HTL had agreed the 
website was misleading (although the call in which that was said isnt available for review). 
Mr S said that whilst Id relied on a video he had sent of the application process, this didnt 
reflect what hed seen at the time the cover was arranged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this is frustrating and somewhat confusing for Mr S. I can clarify that HTL is 
seen to have adopted the comparison website  including its format and wording, because 
it has chosen to use the website to sell its policies. So the comparison website isnt making 
those sales in its own right. Effectively its acting as HTLs agent. So any complaint about the 
sale of the policy has to be considered solely against HTL. Thats also the case because no 
contract exists between Mr S and the comparison website. It was no more than a vehicle for 
the sale of the policy, a method by which the contract between Mr S and HTL was agreed. 
I also understand that where Mr S has heard from others that hes been mis-led or mis-sold 
this policy, its hard for him to accept my view that this is not the case. But when I review a 
complaint I cant make findings based on what others have said. I have to look at everything 
and come to my own conclusion about what happened and whether or not the financial 
business in question likely failed the complainant. Thats what Ive done here.
I note that Mr S now says the video I reviewed and relied upon was not what he saw when 
arranging the policy. But when Mr S sent us that video, he did so because he wanted to 
show us that the limitations of the policy werent made clear to him during the application 
process. So, whether the process captured in the video was different to the application 
process or not, at the time Mr S sent the video to us, he must have been reasonably 
satisfied that it generally reflected what hed seen when applying for cover. Im also mindful 
that Mr S has previously said he had selected to be told about new for old cover  so this was what he expected to be shown quotes for. So I think its possible that, with this in mind, 
Mr S may have over looked the key policy information about the limitations of the new for 
old cover he was being offered. And based on the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied 
its most likely that this limitation was drawn to his attention.
Overall, Im satisfied that my provisional findings are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As such, Ive no need to change or move away from them.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Home and Travel Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman