DRN-4277532
The complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from 
losing money to a scam.
Mr W initially used a representative to bring his complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
just refer to Mr W himself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr W says that around May 2022 he 
discovered an online investment company that Ill refer to as F. He said he was reassured 
by celebrity endorsements and ultimately spoke to one of Fs brokers. He was told hed need 
to open an account with a crypto exchange service C to be able to fund his account with F. 
Mr W did this and went on to make numerous payments to C. Presumably cryptocurrency 
was then passed to F. Initially there were also modest withdrawals which were paid back into 
Mr Ws account with NatWest which further reassured him that everything was legitimate. 
This was until Mr W was told hed need to pay a tax of £11,000 to be able to release his 
funds. And around this time he was also informed by a third party that F were likely operating 
a scam. 
Mr Ws initial complaint to NatWest referred to around £16,000 of payments hed made to C 
in July 2022. But he has since clarified that the payments took place across June, July and 
August 2022. And involved him sending around 12 payments totalling just under £20,000. 
Within the same time period he also received a number of incoming credits (from C) totalling 
around £1,400 meaning Mr W has a loss of approximately £18,600. 
Ultimately whilst NatWest sympathised with Mr W being a victim, they declined to provide 
any redress. The matter was considered by one of our Investigators who didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the payments Mr W made to the scam 
were so unusual that NatWest ought to have done more. Or that there was any other reason 
why they should provide a refund. Mr W disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr W, so Ill explain why. Our Investigator has 
already had several exchanges with Mr W explaining the outcome to the complaint. So, I 
wont repeat the same in detail and will keep to the key reasons for my decision. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr W has been the victim of a scam and lost so much money. 
Im also sorry to hear of his difficult personal circumstances and the issues with his health 
that he has described. But despite my natural sympathy, my role requires that I remain 
impartial, and it would only be fair for me to direct NatWest to do more, if I think they are 
responsible for causing Mr Ws loss or a part of it. 
I agree with our Investigator that I dont think the payments Mr W made towards the scam 
(either individually or collectively) were so unusual that Id have expected NatWest to have 
done more before following the instructions he provided. NatWest do have obligations to be 
alert to potential fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests. But there is a 
balance to be struck and they cant be involved in every payment made. Mr Ws account 
history shows that prior to the scam he made significant payments from his account. These 
include but arent limited to:
£100,000 outgoing payment in April 2022. 
Multiple outgoing payments of around £5,000 in April and May 2022. 
£20,000 outgoing payment also in May 2022. 
Multiple payments to other investment companies.
In the context of the previous account activity, I dont think the payments made towards the 
scam were so unusual, out of character or indicative of potential fraud that Id have expected 
NatWest to have intervened. I acknowledge that some of this movement of money was due 
to an inheritance Mr W had received, but this doesnt change my mind as to whether 
NatWest should have done more. 
I appreciate Mr W has argued that he thinks NatWest should also have done more when 
they intervened in some of his earlier payments that werent made to a scam. There is 
evidence to support that NatWest spoke to Mr W in early May and that they sent him a text 
to confirm a payment. But neither of these were in relation to payments to a scam. So there 
was no obligation or requirement for them to do more as those payments were nothing other 
than genuine transactions authorised by Mr W.
Mr W has also argued that he was vulnerable, and this was something NatWest should have 
been aware of and that on this basis they should have taken even more care. Hes 
highlighted guidance about how banks should treat (and look out for) vulnerable customers 
to support this. NatWest say that they didnt have Mr W recorded as a vulnerable customer 
on their system at the time. Mr W says that they should have known about his vulnerability 
for reasons which include that he was assisted by a chaperone when opening the account in 
branch in 2018 and the nature of benefit payments coming into his account. 
Ive considered what Mr W has said and sympathise with him having what sounds like some 
incredibly challenging personal circumstances in recent years. And he is right to say that 
banks are obliged to treat vulnerable customers with care and to act in their best interests. 
But here, even if I were to agree that NatWest should have identified Mr W as a vulnerable 
customer, I dont think that makes a difference to the outcome of his complaint. Even where 
a customer is vulnerable, NatWest still have to strike a balance between looking for out of 
character payments that could indicate potential fraud and allowing ready access to funds in 
an account. That might look different for a vulnerable person over and above the usual 
account monitoring. And it would also likely vary depending on the nature of the individuals 
vulnerability. But in the specific circumstances of this complaint, taking account of Mr Ws 
circumstances as hes described them, even if NatWest had treated him as vulnerable, that 
wouldnt change my thoughts as to whether they ought to have intervened at the time. It isnt 
reasonable to expect NatWest to stop and check all payments. Mr W has also mentioned the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code). This is a voluntary scheme through which victims of authorised push payment 
(APP) fraud can sometimes receive redress from the banks involved. NatWest are a 
signatory to the CRM Code. But the code is specific in that it only applies to payments made 
to another person. And in the circumstances here, Mr W paid a cryptocurrency account in 
his own name, before passing that on to the scammers. So, I cant say his payments went to 
another person as required by the CRM Code. And I dont think NatWest were 
unreasonable to not consider reimbursement under the code for that reason. 
And for the same reasons, I dont think anything NatWest did or didnt do impacted on 
whether anything could be recovered from the accounts with C. That crypto exchange 
account was in Mr Ws name and had anything remained he could have spoken to C directly. 
Mr Ws testimony is also that the funds were already sent on from C (as cryptocurrency) in 
any case. 
Mr W also says hes been made to feel like he was to blame for losing money to a scam. He 
also says that had NatWest offered a reasonable rate of interest on savings accounts, he 
wouldnt have had to go elsewhere and incur the risk of being scammed. The rates of 
interest NatWest wish to offer are a commercial matter for them. And whilst I understand 
how disappointing it would have been to be told there wouldnt be a refund following a scam, 
Ive not seen anything that persuades me NatWest treated Mr W unfairly, blamed him as the 
victim or otherwise provided poor service such that compensation should be paid. 
Overall, Im really sorry to hear Mr W was a victim and suffered such a significant loss. But 
ultimately the responsible party is the criminal who perpetrated the scam. I hope the 
authorities are successful in prosecuting the scammer and that this results in redress for 
Mr W. But as I dont think his outstanding loss is something NatWest are responsible for; Im 
not going to direct them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman