DRN-4105146
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd (RSA) declined her claim for a 
replacement hob.
What happened
Ms S had contents insurance underwritten by RSA. She made a claim under her policy for 
accidental damage to the hob in the property she rented. RSA declined the claim because 
cover wasnt available for fixtures and fittings under the tenants liability section of her 
contents policy.
Ms S didnt think RSA had declined her claim fairly because she owned the hob and could 
take it with her if she moved. Therefore, Ms S thought it should be classed as contents.
RSA issued a final response maintaining its decision to decline the claim, so Ms S brought 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said RSA had declined the claim fairly for 
the reasons it gave which were in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ms S disagreed. She provided evidence of other claims where complaints similar to hers had 
been upheld. Ms S also said kitchen hobs werent specifically excluded from her cover. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ss complaint for the following reasons.
RSA declined Ms Ss claim because she didnt have cover for accidental damage to 
buildings under her tenants liability.
Ms S had contents insurance only with RSA.
As Ms S rented the property, the contents insurance also provided tenants liability 
cover for buildings insurance perils 1-12.
Accidental damage to buildings, including fixtures and fittings, isnt covered under 
perils 1-12. Accidental damage is covered under peril 19. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that RSA declined the claim fairly because Ms S didnt have cover for 
accidental damage under the tenants liability section of her contents cover.
Ms S said she had no reason to look at the buildings section of the policy.
Page 14 of the policy booklet, under the definition of contents, states that fixtures and 
fittings arent covered.
Examples of fixtures and fittings are given on page 13 in the buildings definition. The 
list includes, fitted kitchen units including fixed hobs in units.
Ms S said shed have no reason to read the buildings section of the policy so 
wouldnt have known that she didnt have cover for her hob.
Under the tenants liability of the contents cover, the policy booklet directs Ms S to 
pages 22 and 23 of the buildings section for details of cover.
As the contents section refers to the fixtures and fittings defined in the buildings section, and 
the perils covered under the tenants liability, Im satisfied RSA has provided the relevant 
information for Ms S in a section of the policy she can reasonably be expected to look.
Ms S believes her hob is a personal possession because she bought it and she could take it 
with her when she moved.
The policy defined a fixed hob as a fixture and fitting.
The hob was fitted into the kitchen unit and wired into the property. 
The policy cover for personal possessions refers to easily moveable possessions.
On balance, I think its unlikely a fitted hob would reasonably be considered a 
personal possession or an easily moveable item under the policy.
Therefore, I have no reason to think RSA shouldve considered the claim under the personal 
possessions section of the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied that RSA declined Ms Ss claim fairly and reasonably for the reasons it 
gave and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint 
about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman