DRN-2827441
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the level of cover provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA). 
What happened
On 12 March 2021 Mr and Mrs P took out a home insurance policy, with cover due to 
start on 24 March 2021. 
The policy is underwritten by AXA.
On 15 March 2021, Mr P called AXA. During the call he questioned the extent of 
cover for garages and outbuildings  which has a limit of £5,000. 
Mr P said £5,000 was insufficient for his needs as he has a tractor and other goods 
which are stored in his garage.
AXA explained the policy limits were non-negotiable and set by the underwriters and 
so couldnt be increased. 
It said that as the policy hadnt started, Mr P could cancel it and be given a refund of 
the premiums.
Mr P thinks the policy limit should have been increased to reflect his circumstances 
and an explanation provided to show how the limit was set.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said its up to AXA to decide what 
level of cover it provides customers. She was satisfied the policy information was 
available to Mr and Mrs P at the time they purchased the policy. And as AXA had 
offered a full refund, she felt it had treated Mr and Mrs P fairly. 
Mr and Mrs P disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ps frustrations that the policy didnt provide enough 
cover in respect of garages and outbuildings, it is ultimately up to the insurer to 
decide what cover it provides its customers. So, AXA hasnt acted unfairly by not 
altering the level of cover for garage and outbuildings. 
AXA has explained the product wasnt bespoke  and so limits couldnt be amended -
and that Mr and Mrs P should find alternative cover to ensure they werent under-
insured.
Information regarding policy limits was available to Mr and Mrs P at the time of taking 
out the policy, and so Im satisfied they had the information they needed to make an 
informed decision as to whether to go ahead with the policy.
Because cover hadnt started Mr and Mrs P were able to cancel the policy and find 
alternative cover. And having received a refund of the premiums they were put back 
in the position they would have been in had they not taken the policy out. So, Im 
satisfied AXA doesnt need to take any further action. 
I appreciate my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs P but for the reasons explained, 
Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman