DRN-3719416
The complaint
Mr M complains ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) failed to follow his instructions to stop a 
drawdown payment. He does not feel ReAssure have properly rectified the account or 
provided a satisfactory answer. In addition, the poor customer service he experienced 
caused his significant trouble and upset for which he asks to be compensated.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr M held a drawdown pension with Legal & General, which was transferred to Re-
Assure in September 2020.
In December 2020, he telephoned ReAssure to cancel a drawdown payment of £1,500 
scheduled for January 2021. He also asked ReAssure to confirm how much notice was 
needed in order to alter an agreed payment schedule. 
ReAssure asked him to phone back or leave a message on the website in early January. Mr 
M sent emails in an attempt to clarify the position, but he received no response.
On 5 January 2021, Mr M left messages on the ReAssure web page, ReAssure replied
on 12 January 2021, 5 working days later. In its response ReAssure said it required 15 
working days prior to the payment date in order to alter a scheduled payment. But, the
message didnt confirm whether his request to cancel the January payment had been
actioned. It said the request would be passed on to the specialist team who would be in
touch.
On 19 January 2021, Mr M received a 2-line letter from ReAssure. It said:
Thank you for your recent correspondence regarding stopping income. We
usually require two weeks prior (sic) the date of your payment to stop income
It still remained unclear from this letter whether the January payment had been stopped, so 
Mr M telephoned ReAssure for clarification on 25 January 2021. During this call he said he 
was told the payment had been stopped and a letter confirming this would be sent, notes of 
the call confirm this.
But, on 27 January 2021, he found ReAssure had paid £2,275.80 to his bank.
A transaction statement provided by ReAssure shows 65.40810 units were sold at a unit
price of £43.49 per unit. This generated a gross drawdown figure of £2,844.60, which after
income tax at 20% resulted in the payment of £2,275.80.
Mr M called ReAssure the same morning and was asked to return the money to ReAssure 
and the bank details provided. He was were assured the position of his plan would be 
corrected. But later that evening he received a call from ReAssure informing him that the 
bank account number he had been given was incorrect. He requested ReAssure send the 
details of the account in a letter before he returned the money.
Around 29 January 2021, Mr M received a letter dated 25 January 2021, which set out
the notice periods required to both set up and stop an income payment from the plan. It
confirmed the January 2021 payment had been cancelled.
On 31 January 2021, Mr M complained to ReAssure and set out his concerns in
detail.
On 1 February 2021, Mr M received a letter from ReAssure confirming the bank account
details for the repayment of the funds received in error. He returned the sum in full on 8
February 2021 and ReAssure confirmed receipt on 11 February 2021.
Mr M expected the funds to be reapplied to his plan immediately, but this didnt happen and 
so he chased for an update on 16 February 2021 and 24 February 2021 but didnt
receive a response.
On 8 March 2021, ReAssure undertook the corrective action on the plan, purchasing
65.408.10 units, the same number of units which had been sold on 27 January 2021. As the
price per unit had fallen, the capital cost of purchasing these units was £2,719.34.
On 10 March 2021, Mr M wrote a secure message to ReAssure asking them to explain
in detail how much they had returned to the plan. At this time his complaint was still being
investigated.
On 16 March 2021, Mr M sent another secure message. He felt his plan had not been
corrected properly as the payment to the account was only £2,719.34, as opposed to the
£2,844.60 which had been encashed in January 2021. He also said he felt there was over
£600 missing from his plan. He asked ReAssure to provide a list of the fluctuations in unit
values over the period in question. Again, this was before ReAssure had been able to
respond to the complaint.
A final response letter was issued on 28 March 2021. ReAssure apologised for the poor
service Mr M had experienced. The letter said the funds had been reapplied to his plan,
but on the wrong date. The letter assured Mr M they were aware of the mistake and
were working to correct the plan and ensure he had not suffered any financial detriment.
It made a payment of £250, in recognition of the trouble and upset hed experienced.
On 5 April 2021, Mr M wrote to ReAssure on 5 April 2021. He said £3,455.26 had been 
removed from his plan and wanted ReAssure to guarantee it would be replaced, he felt 
£610.66 was still missing. He also asked whether fees had been taken in the past 3 months 
and if so, how they were calculated. 
On 9 April, ReAssure responded on 9 April 2021 seeking to answer these queries. 
On 14 April 2021, Mr M sent an email explaining he remained dissatisfied as
£610.66 was still not accounted for.
ReAssure reopened the complaint and sent a second final response letter dated 7 May 
2021, in it, ReAssure sought to explain the corrective action they had taken. 
In an email dated 12 May 2021, Mr M remained of the view that £3,455.26 had been 
removed from the plan, not the £2,844.60 as ReAssure claimed. He reiterated he had 
suffered a loss of £610.66.On 20 May 2021, ReAssure wrote to Mr M to explain the commission payments deducted
from the plan. A further letter was sent on 25 June 2021 confirming the same number of 
units sold in January had been reacquired. It also set out the fund charges and commission 
associated with the plan.
Still dissatisfied, Me M brought his complaint to this service. He said he remained concerned 
about what had happened to the value of his plan before the erroneous withdrawal. He 
explained the value of his account on 24 December 2020 was £30,662.16, but on 5 January 
2021, it had fallen to £27,206.90 i.e. a drop of £3,455.26 in 12 days.
An investigator looked into things for Mr M. He found:
The difference in value between 24 December and 5 January 2021 wasnt a result of 
the sale of units as a transaction report showed no units had been sold between 
these two dates. sold and no money left his plan between these two dates.
He could see from looking at the unit price for the ReAssure LG Fixed Interest 6 was 
lower in early January 2021 than it was in late December 2020. So, in his view, any 
fall in value was due to market movements between these two dates and not due to 
an error by ReAssure.
He was satisfied the corrective action taken by ReAssure had addressed the 
erroneous payment. He could see from the transaction report that 65.40810 units 
were sold on 27 January 2021 and this transaction was exactly reversed on 8 March 
2021.
He explained the unit price had fluctuated and fallen between the dates so ReAssure 
had been able to acquire the units at a capital cost. The difference in cost was the 
£125.26 ReAssure referred to in the letter of 7 May 2021. He explained because the 
cost of repurchasing the units was lower, didnt mean Mr M suffered a loss, the 
important thing was that the number of units had been restored.
He could see how Mr M had reached his conclusion that there was money missing 
from the plan and set out why this wasnt accurate. He explained how and when the 
unit price had fallen and how this had impacted Mr Ms plan. Overall, he was 
satisfied the error had been corrected.
In terms of the poor customer service he detailed over 10 occasions where ReAssure 
had either provided incorrect information or failed to respond or failed to take 
appropriate and timely action to Mr Ms concerns.
In summary, the investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. Although he found ReAssure had 
eventually corrected the erroneous payment from Mr Ms plan, he felt the level of poor 
customer service and the significant trouble and upset Mr M suffered as a result warranted 
an increased compensatory payment. He asked ReAssure to pay Mr M £750 in recognition 
of this.
Mr M accepted the investigators view. 
ReAssure accepted the investigators findings but didnt agree to increase its compensatory 
offer. It apologised but felt £250 was fair and reasonable redress for the trouble and upset 
this matter has caused Mr M. It didnt agree to increase its offer and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional findings I came to the same conclusions as the investigator on the merits 
of the complaint, and largely for the same reasons. ReAssure accepts that an error has occurred and has corrected it, but it hasnt been able to reach an agreement on what is fair 
and reasonable redress for the trouble and upset this matter has caused. 
I explained as both parties have accepted the investigators view as set out in summary 
within this decision I do not intend to comment further upon the merits of the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision to clarify how I reached my view on what I consider fair and 
reasonable redress in the circumstances of this complaint and what ReAssure should do to 
put things right.
I explained at the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service 
isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints 
between a consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we 
would ask the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in 
the position they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The rules for how this service approaches awards are set out in the regulators handbook at 
Disp 3.7 and incudes awards for distress and inconvenience.
I explained we take a number of factors into account when considering what is fair and 
reasonable redress. These include but are not limited to in this case:
How ReAssure responded to its error
What was its communication like whilst it attempted to correct its error?
How long it took and how many times Mr M had to interact with it in an attempt to 
gain a satisfactory response
The offer ReAssure made and how it reflected the trouble and upset caused
In summary, I said the timeline of this complaint details multiple attempts by Mr M to engage 
with ReAssure:
17 December 2020 - ReAssure were unable to deal with his request to stop the 
January 2021 payment, requiring him to send a message again
19 January 2021  The letter sent to Mr M was just two lines, vague and didnt 
confirm whether his request had been actioned
25 January 2021  Mr M was told his January payment had been stopped (both
by phone & letter) but this was incorrect
27 January 2021  The payment was made in error and in any case was for a 
different amount to the payment he had tried to cancel
27 January 2021  Mr M was given the wrong bank details to make the repayment
16 & 24 February 2021  Mr M sent two messages asking ReAssure to explain the 
corrective action they had taken. He received no response and no explanation was 
given in the final response letter of 28 March 2021
28 March 2021  The final response letter said the money had been reapplied on the 
wrong date. This doesnt seem to stand up as relevant as only the correction of the 
number of units is relevant and this led to a further loss of confidence Mr M has had 
in ReAssure managing his investment.ReAssure issued its first final response letter, then had to reopen the complaint and 
issue a second letter and then a further two letters responding to additional queries 
regarding fees and charges. In all of these instances ReAssure were unable to 
provide satisfactory explanations and so Mr M had to repeatedly chase up the 
information he needed.
So, I found, although its accepted that ReAssure corrected its error within around 28 days, 
there is a fair argument here that it was preventable in the first place, if ReAssure had acted 
when Mr M was attempting to contact them. 
In my view, I think the summary of events illustrates why £250 isnt a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience this matter caused Mr M. I could see he has clearly lost all 
confidence in ReAssure to manage his investments, so much so that he has told this service 
he is in the process of transferring his investment to another provider.
I explained the awards made by this service for distress and inconvenience are modest. That 
reflects the informal nature of this service as an alternative to the courts. But we consider an 
award of around £750 to be fair where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and disruption that 
took a lot of effort to sort out. 
I said in my view it is evident that Mr M had to go to significant effort to sort this matter out 
and most of this could have been avoided. As such I said I was persuaded an award of £750 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure has said it has made a payment of £250 already and that being the case, I said it 
should now make an additional payment of £500 to put things right.
Mr M accepted the findings within my provisional decision.
ReAssure did not respond to my provisional decision, despite follow up requests from this 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as I havent been provided with may additional submissions for my 
consideration, it follows I have reached the same conclusion as that of my provisional 
findings.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct ReAssure Limited to:
Pay Mr M an additional £500 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman