DRN-3058065
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the recommendation provided by Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to invest the value of his pension portfolio in its Blended 
Portfolio 5 fund. He says that Aviva failed to provide adequate information about the fund or 
respond to his question about the alternative option of holding money in cash and drip 
feeding it into the fund. As a result, he says he was unable to make an informed investment 
decision. 
What happened
On 3 December 2019, Avivas adviser met Mr D to present his recommendation. He 
recommended that Mr D transfer the value of his three existing pension plans to a new Aviva 
pension portfolio. The combined transfer value of those three plans was about £1.24m. 
Aviva recommended that once the transfers had been completed that the transfer value of 
about £1.24m be invested in its Blended Portfolio 5 fund which it said aligned with Mr Ds 
risk profile and preference for low costs. Paperwork was completed confirming Mr Ds 
acceptance of the recommendation. Aviva then started the process of transferring the value 
of his three plans into the pension portfolio.
On 9 December 2019, Mr D emailed Avivas adviser. He confirmed that he was comfortable 
with the pension transfer advice. However, having had time to read through the paperwork 
and reflect, he said he unsure whether it was appropriate to invest the value of his Aviva 
pension portfolio in the Blended Portfolio 5 fund at that time. This was because he and his 
wifes finances were linked, and she too had been advised to transfer the value of her 
pension arrangements into the same portfolio of funds. So it appeared to him that they were 
putting all their eggs in one basket. In addition, Mr D said he had noted from the 
information provided by the adviser that the Blended Portfolio 5 fund was a new fund with 
no investment track record. With these factors in mind, he requested that the adviser cancel 
the transfer of one of his three existing pension plans (which represented about £276,221 of 
the total transfer values of about £1.24m) to reduce the concentration risk. Mr D also asked 
the adviser several questions in his email including whether there was a cash facility which 
would enable him to drip feed money into the Blended Portfolio 5.
The adviser replied to Mr Ds email on the same day. He suggested that they meet again to 
talk through Mr Ds concerns. But in the meantime, the adviser tried to reassure Mr D by 
explaining in his email the reasons why he considered investment in the Blended Portfolio 5 
fund was suitable at that time. The adviser said that the transfer would lead to lower costs 
compared to Mr Ds existing defined contribution pension plans. He acknowledged that the 
Blended Portfolio 5 fund was relatively new but commented this didnt impact the suitability 
of the transfer. However, in line with Mr Ds request, the adviser arranged to cancel the 
transfer of one of his existing pension plans. The value of the two other pension plans were 
transferred into Mr Ds Aviva pension portfolio and invested in the Blended Portfolio 5 fund, 
in line with the advisers original recommendation. 
On 19 December 2019, the adviser issued an amended suitability report to Mr D to reflect 
the outcome that only two of this three pension plans would be transferred to a new Aviva 
pension portfolio. 
On 20 December 2019, the adviser contacted Mr D to confirm that the cancelled transfer had 
been reversed successfully. They discussed the Blended Portfolio 5 again. Following that 
discussion, Mr D said that if hed known more information about the fund that he wouldnt 
have cancelled the transfer of one his pension plans.
In March 2020, Mr D, without advice, instructed Aviva to switch the entire value of his 
pension portfolio into cash.
This complaint
Mr D complained to Aviva about the suitability of the recommendation to invest the value of 
his pension portfolio in its Blended Portfolio 5 fund. He said that Aviva failed to provide 
adequate information about the fund or respond to his question in his email of                                
9 December 2019 about the alternative option of holding money in cash and drip feeding it 
into the fund to mitigate the risk of investment loss given the negative economic outlook due 
to Covid-19. This meant he was unable to make an informed investment decision. He said 
that these failings caused him to suffer a financial loss of about £130,000. To put things 
right, he wanted Aviva to pay him compensation.
Aviva didnt uphold this complaint. It said its records from the time of the recommendation 
showed that Mr Ds retirement income need would be entirely met by his rental properties 
and State pension. And that he intended to leave his Aviva pension portfolio invested over 
the longer term before accessing it. It said its recommendation was based on a medium to 
long term investment time horizon to reflect his plans. It explained that the recommended 
Blended Portfolio 5 fund wasnt designed to have regular transfers in and out. Rather, it was 
an actively managed fund specifically designed to allow fluctuations within the limits set by 
his risk profile but still provide growth potential over time. Given this was the case, remaining 
invested during market volatility was generally considered to be the best course of action. It 
said that switching into cash in times of volatility could be deemed poor practice as losses 
could be crystallised. As a result, it considered that the recommendation for the Blended 
Portfolio 5 fund was suitable. Aviva also explained that in his email of 9 December 2019, its 
adviser had attempted to reassure Mr D about the suitability of the recommended fund and 
so discussing other potential options, such as holding money in cash and drip feeding it into 
the investment fund, wasnt an option he wouldve considered and discussed with Mr D.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Aviva provided adequate information to Mr D to enable him to make an informed 
decision about investment in the Blended Portfolio 5 fund. He was also satisfied that the 
recommendation to invest the value of Mr Ds Aviva pension portfolio in that fund was 
suitable based on his risk profile, investment time horizon and wider financial circumstances. 
Our investigator noted that Aviva didnt provide a response to Mr Ds question in                      
December 2019 about the availability a cash account facility at the time. But he didnt think 
this changed anything because holding money in cash never formed part of Avivas 
recommendation. So he was satisfied that the adviser had no reason to discuss this. The 
investigator said the information Mr D was looking for about the availability of a cash facility 
was already in the paperwork that had been provided to him by the adviser.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators opinion and provided additional comments. He 
reiterated his previous comments that Aviva failed to respond to his question in his email of                               
9 December 2019 about the availability of a cash facility. It was his view that had Aviva 
responded promptly to that question then he couldve switched to cash sooner than                               
March 2020, avoiding the investment loss he said he had suffered.
Our investigator considered Mr Ds comments but wasnt persuaded to change his view. 
Since this complaint couldnt be resolved, its been referred to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Ive considered all the evidence afresh 
including Mr Ds comments in response to our investigators assessment.
The Blended Portfolio 5 fund
The Aviva Blended Portfolio 5 factsheet provided to Mr D confirmed that the objective of the 
fund was To provide long term growth by investing in a range of asset classes including 
equities, fixed interest, cash, property and commodities. It may also use derivatives for 
investment purposes. It is part of a range of six funds all run to meet set risk profiles. 
Blended Portfolio 2 is the lowest risk option while Blended Portfolio 7 is the highest. The 
asset allocation as at 30 June 2019 was:
International Equities 42.4%
UK Gilts 22.4%
Cash and equivalents 11.1%
UK Corporate Bonds 10.3%
International Bonds 10.1%
UK Equities 3.0%
Property 0.7%
The asset allocation could change over time within pre-determined ranges depending on the 
change in value of the underlying assets and any investment decisions taken by the fund 
manager to increase or decrease holdings in any particular asset class. The factsheet also 
confirmed that the launch date was 14 May 2018, the Annual Management Charge was 
0.20% and the fund size was £0.8m as at 30 June 2019.
Ive taken the above into account in my findings below.
My findings
Having considered the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for 
these reasons:
The Blended Portfolio 5 fund was well diversified and, in my view, could be regarded 
as being moderate or medium risk and therefore appropriate for investment over the 
medium to long term. Aviva based its recommendation on Mr D investing over the 
medium to long term. This was further confirmed by Mr D when he told the adviser in 
his email of 5 March 2020 that he didnt anticipate accessing money in his pension 
portfolio for about five years. The recommendation led to lower costs for Mr D 
compared to his existing defined contribution pension plans. Based on the contemporaneous evidence, Im satisfied that the recommendation for the fund was 
suitable based on what was recorded about Mr Ds knowledge and experience, 
financial circumstances, objective and investment time horizon. Im satisfied that 
investment in the fund was a risk he was willing and able to tolerate.
Mr D wanted more information about the Blended Portfolio 5 fund. I understand that 
he may have wanted more information. But the provision of additional information 
wouldnt have changed the fundamental suitability of the recommendation. 
Mr D was concerned about the size and lack of investment track record for the 
Blended Portfolio 5 fund. I dont think these issues are relevant in determining 
suitability in this case.
Based on the emails he sent to Aviva, it seems to me that Mr D was in fact content 
with investment in the Blended Portfolio 5 fund. Indeed, when he obtained more 
information about the fund, he said he wouldnt have cancelled the transfer of one his 
pension plans. And he further stated his preference was to drip feed money into the 
fund, again suggesting he was content with investment in the fund. 
To my mind, the real issue here is the timing of investment rather than suitability of 
the fund itself. Mr D wanted to defer investment in the fund and instead hold his 
Aviva pension portfolio in cash for the next 12 to 18 months. This was due to press 
coverage and articles he had read about the negative economic outlook due to 
Covid-19. While holding money in cash may have been an alternative suitable course 
of action, it doesnt necessarily mean that Avivas recommendation was unsuitable. I 
say this because theres usually a broad spectrum of suitable options when giving 
investment advice. And in this case, its my view that investment in the Blended 
Portfolio 5 fund in line with Avivas recommendation in December 2019 was suitable, 
for the reasons explained above.
The adviser didnt initially respond to Mr Ds specific question in his email of                           
9 December 2019 about the availability of a cash facility in the Aviva pension 
portfolio. I dont think this is relevant. I say this because its clear the advisers 
recommendation was for immediate and total investment in the Blended Portfolio 5 
fund which Im satisfied was suitable. Aviva has explained that its adviser wouldnt 
have recommended the course of action suggested by Mr D. This because the fund 
wasnt designed to have regular transfers in and out or money being drip fed into it 
over a prolonged period. Rather, it was an actively managed fund specifically 
designed to allow fluctuations within the limits set by his risk profile. Therefore, even 
if the adviser had answered that specific question in December 2019, it wouldnt have 
altered his recommendation. Notwithstanding this point, the information Mr D wanted 
about the availability of a cash facility was already in his possession after the adviser 
provided paperwork to him when presenting his recommendation. 
Aviva isnt responsible for Mr Ds decision in March 2020 to switch the entire value of 
his pension portfolio into cash. The fact that he couldve taken that decision sooner 
isnt something I can hold Aviva liable for because that course of action was contrary 
to its recommendation.
I sympathise with Mr D about the investment loss he says he suffered because of the 
timing of the switch into cash. But I think this is only seen with the benefit of 
hindsight. The fundamental issue here is that I think the recommendation in 
December 2019 for the Blended Portfolio 5 fund was suitable for Mr D. Because of 
this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Aviva to pay compensation to Mr D  or to take any further action in response 
to this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.  
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman