DRN-2289898
The complaint
Mr P complains that IPA wont pay him an appropriate amount of compensation for distress 
and inconvenience its actions have caused him.
What happened
Mr P reported a leak affecting a floor in the bathroom at his home. IPA arranged for an 
engineer to visit  more than once  and it seems no-one could find the problem. It was 
thought that an external gully might be to blame, or even either the mains water pipe or the 
drains. Mr P paid for some interim work, but it didnt resolve the problem.
On one visit, the plumber sent out by IPA turned the water off. Mr P was left with no running 
water for eight days. Eventually he found someone to fix the leak  which turned out to be a 
problem with his central heating.
Mr P complained about the way hed been treated, and the problems being left with no water 
caused him as hes very ill. He said that amongst other things, hed fallen and several of the 
emergency services had to attend his home. IPA acknowledged it hadnt handled the claim 
well and offered Mr P £200 compensation, which it later increased to £400. 
Mr P didnt think that was enough and asked us to review his complaint. Our investigator 
thought that turning the water off without offering any alternate accommodation was very 
poor service and had caused a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She 
recommended IPA increase the compensation to £1,000  in other words pay an additional 
£600.
She also said IPA should pay for the interim repairs and the extra electricity Mr P had used, 
plus some compensatory interest. 
IPA said it would pay for repairs only once it had seen an invoice and could assess what 
work had been done, to check they related to the claim. Mr P doesnt have an invoice as the 
work was done by a friend of a friend. He accepted that without an invoice, we cant ask IPA 
to pay his entire bill. IPA has agreed to reimburse Mr P for a call out fee of £77 (with the 
relevant invoice) and for his additional electricity costs. Both of these items will attract 
compensatory interest.
IPA says its already paid enough in compensation, as it can take up to 5 days to decide a 
claim or complete a repair if several visits are needed.
Mr P remains unhappy about this so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main outstanding point on this complaint is the amount of compensation. IPA says its 
paid enough, based on the fact that it should be allowed a reasonable amount of time  5 
days  to deal with a claim if repeat visits are needed. Im not persuaded by that argument. 
Mr Ps main complaint is about how hed been treated and left to cope without running water 
for over a week. IPA agreed it provided a poor service and I think thats the right conclusion 
for it to have reached. From what Ive seen it seems that, no matter how many times Mr P 
got IPA to look at the problem, its contractors couldnt find the source of the leak and instead 
suggested a variety of possibilities  none of which resolved the issue. 
But more importantly, one contractor left Mr P, who has serious health issues, in a house 
with no running water. 
IPA will know that its responsible for the actions of contractors its appointed. IPA knew Mr P 
was ill, so it should have been taking additional care with the claim to minimise any effects 
on him.
Mr Ps policy says alternate accommodation is covered if a house cant be lived in. I think no 
running water quickly makes a house uninhabitable, although the threshold for this will 
change depending upon who lives in the house. Mr Ps told us how his illness is treated and 
the effect it has on him. Im satisfied that for him, a home without running water isnt one he 
should have been asked to live in without any alternatives being offered.
It follows that I think IPA should have, at the least, offered Mr P some suitable alternate 
accommodation. Theres no suggestion this was done. Mr P has told us how this affected 
him, even to the point that he suffered a fall that could have been very serious.
IPAs reason for not increasing the compensation doesnt persuade me I should overrule the 
opinions of either Mr P or our investigator. I agree that sometimes it can take a little while to 
deal with a claim, although I havent seen any evidence that supports IPAs claim that its 
allowed 5 days if more than one visit is required. But if delays are inevitable, that means IPA 
should have been more pro-active about supporting Mr P, rather than less. 
Im upholding this part of the complaint.
Thats the main part of this complaint, as I understand IPA has agreed to pay Mr Ps call-out 
fee (with an invoice) and his additional electricity costs. And I believe Mr P understands why 
he cant ask IPA to pay his repair bill if he doesnt have an invoice for that. If Mr P can get an 
appropriate invoice, then Id expect IPA to meet any costs covered by his policy. 
Putting things right
IPA should pay Mr P a total of £1,000 compensation for the way it handled this claim. I 
understand that means it needs to pay him an additional £600.  and it should do this within 
28 days.
For clarity, IPA should also add interest at 8% simple per annum to the cost of the call out 
fee and the extra electricity costs. These arent bills Mr P should have had to pay and hes 
been deprived of the use of this money since then. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. IPA must now:pay Mr P £600 additional compensation within 28 days. It must also meet the cost of 
the call out fee (once an invoice is provided) and the additional electricity costs if it 
hasnt done so already.
IPA should add interest* at 8% simple per annum to the call out fee and the electricity 
costs from the date Mr P paid these bills to the date of refund.
*HMRC requires IPA to deduct tax from this before making payment to Mr P. IPA must give 
Mr P a tax certificate showing deductions if Mr P asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman