DRN-3137624
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy because National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) did not reimburse all 
the money she transferred to a fraudster. 
Background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint so I wont repeat them in detail 
here. But briefly, Miss R has explained that between 2013 and 2014, she was involved with 
a professional gambler who she would receive betting tips from. Miss R lost around £10,000 
to £15,000 in total through her dealings with the gambler and so stopped.
In March 2020 Miss R was contacted by someone who claimed to be a private investigator 
who was looking into the actions of the professional gambler. Unknown to Miss R at the 
time, this investigator was actually a fraudster.
The fraudster knew of Miss Rs involvement with the professional gambler and suggested he 
could get Miss Rs money back, but that she would need to pay an up-front fee of 10% of her 
refund, which Miss R agreed to. The fraudster, and others involved in the scam, continued to 
then ask Miss R for further payments before shed receive her refund and also, on 
occasions, visited her at her home. Miss R made the following payments from her NatWest 
accounts to the scammer:
Account 1:
Date Payee Payment value
01/04/2020 Payee 1 £250
02/04/2020 Payee 1 £995
03/04/2020 Payee 1 £995
06/04/2020 Payee 1 £550
06/04/2020 Payee 1 £389
Account 2:
Date Payee Payment value
06/04/2020 Payee 1 £918
08/04/2020 Payee 1 £995
09/04/2020 Payee 1 £995
10/04/2020 Payee 2 £995
11/04/2020 Payee 2 £995
12/04/2020 Payee 2 £855
16/04/2020 Payee 2 £2,845
18/04/2020 Payee 3 £9,659
22/04/2020 Payee 4 £100
22/04/2020 Payee 4 £6,350
23/04/2020 Payee 4 £6,350
24/04/2020 Payee 4 £3,385
27/04/2020 Payee 4 £3,385
29/04/2020 Payee 4 £6,245
29/04/2020 Payee 4 £4,500
29/04/2020 Payee 4 £474
29/04/2020 Payee 4 £4,270
29/04/2020 Payee 4 £3,800
06/05/2020 Payee 4 £5,479
09/05/2020 Payee 4 £1,795
19/05/2020 Payee 4 £3,080
19/05/2020 Payee 4 £1,425
20/05/2020 Payee 5 £550
21/05/2020 Payee 5 £4,950
Miss R has explained she kept making further payments, as she was told the value due to 
be refunded to her was also increasing. Shes said that when visited at her home, the 
fraudsters would show her cheques or bankers drafts in her name but wouldnt release these 
to her without further payments, which she couldnt make at the time, and so the fraudsters 
would take them away.
Miss R has said she didnt receive any form of contract from the scammer, but believed what 
she was told because of what he knew about her involvement with the gambler previously. 
She also said she researched the private investigator online but couldnt find any results. 
Miss R says she also researched the professional gambler online, and saw he was no longer 
in business which also reassured her that the investigator was in fact legitimate.
After making payments to the fraudster, Miss R received no refund as promised and was 
unable to contact the him. Miss R realised at this point shed been the victim of a scam and 
contacted NatWest to raise a claim.
NatWest investigated Miss Rs fraud claim and considered its obligations to provide Miss R 
with a refund. NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have 
been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
NatWest says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
NatWest has said Miss R didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making 
genuine payments towards a legitimate service. However, NatWest did recognise it hadnt 
met the standards it was required to under the CRM Code for all payments. It said it could 
have done more to protect Miss R at the time given the pattern of payments made. NatWest 
therefore refunded 50% of the value of payments made by Miss R from 22 April 2020 
onwards. The beneficiary bank for payee 3 also accepted it couldve done more to protect 
Miss R and provided a 50% refund of the £9,659 payment she made to their customers 
account.
NatWest contacted the beneficiary banks to attempt to recover any more of Miss Rs money, 
but unfortunately no funds remained in the accounts.
Miss R disagreed with NatWest so brought the complaint to our service. During an 
investigators review of the case, NatWest determined it was jointly liable for further 
transactions and offered to refund 50% of all further payments on account 2 (minus the 
payment of £9,659, which Miss R had already received a 50% refund on from the beneficiary 
bank.) However NatWest said it wouldnt be applying any interest to this settlement offer.One of our investigators considered the case and agreed that the offer NatWest had made 
was fair  he thought that, in the circumstances, Miss R ought to have completed further 
checks to verify that she was genuinely speaking to a private investigator before making 
payments, so should be held jointly liable for the transactions she made. The investigator 
considered that NatWest should have provided a 50% refund from 9 April 2020. He said at 
this point, Miss Rs pattern of spending was sufficiently out of character that NatWest 
shouldve intervened. The investigator thought that although NatWest hadnt awarded the 
simple interest that would be expected in complaints of this nature, as its offer covered more 
payments than he would otherwise have recommended, the offer was still fair.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator. She said she honestly didnt know she was being 
scammed and was in a vulnerable position due to the scam coinciding with the start of the 
Covid pandemic. She said the fraudsters also told her one of the private investigators 
involved had committed suicide, which brought back memories of tragedies in her own family 
history.
As Miss R didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether 
NatWest should have fully reimbursed Miss R under the provisions of the CRM Code and 
whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss R from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Miss R was tricked into making the payments. She thought she 
was making genuine payments to a private investigator and that didnt happen. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Miss R to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code 
places a level of care on Miss R too. 
The CRM Code 
As Ive mentioned, NatWest is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances and it is for NatWest to establish that a customer failed to meet 
their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning 
The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate 
*Further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code do not apply to this case.
In this case, NatWest has accepted it didnt provide an Effective Warning and that it 
shouldve made checks with Miss R about the payments she was making by the time she 
began using account 2 to make payments to the fraudster - which is why its refunded 50% 
of payments made from this account (except the £9,659 payment which the beneficiary 
account provided a 50% refund on). However I think NatWest has been able to establish that 
it may choose not to fully reimburse Miss R under the terms of the CRM Code. Im 
persuaded one of the listed exceptions to reimbursement under the provisions of the CRM 
Code applies.
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, including the characteristics of the 
customer and the complexity of the scam, I think the concerns NatWest has raised about the 
legitimacy of the transactions Miss R was making are enough to support its position that she 
failed to meet her requisite level of care under the CRM Code for the payments she made. I 
dont think Miss R had a reasonable basis for believing the person she transacted with was 
legitimate. Ill explain why.
Miss R has explained she was contacted out of the blue by the fraudster, advising he had 
been investigating the private gambler Miss R used. Miss R said she researched the 
gambling expert online and saw he had gone out of business, which reinforced her belief 
that what the fraudster was telling her was true. I think it should reasonably have concerned 
Miss R that an investigator would contact her without her having first enquired for help. 
Having looked online myself I also havent been able to identify anything to suggest the 
gambling expert Miss R used has gone out of business, or anything to indicate his actions 
have been determined to be fraudulent. I therefore think that by looking online, Miss R ought 
reasonably to have questioned what she had been told.
Miss R has said she saw paperwork when visited by the fraudster, but never received a copy 
of anything such as a contract. Again I would consider it unusual for a legitimate private 
investigator to not provide anything in writing to confirm the scope of service provided, or 
overall costs involved. Miss R said she researched the private investigator as well but 
couldnt find any details of him. Again I consider this shouldve been concerning and raised 
questions about his legitimacy.
Miss R eventually made payments to five different payees, for amounts far exceeding the 
amount she had actually lost through gambling. Again I think Miss R should reasonably have 
questioned why she was having to pay so much - and I dont think its reasonable that any 
investigators upfront fees would outweigh the expected return. I appreciate that by this 
point, Miss R had already made many payments and was invested in the process  but I still 
think the value and number of payments being made should reasonably have alerted her 
that something may be amiss.Having considered Miss Rs response to our investigators view, Id like to reassure Miss R 
that this doesnt mean I think she made the payments knowing they were towards a scam. I 
appreciate its Miss R who is the innocent victim here. But I think Miss R couldve done more 
to check the legitimacy of the fraudster, before agreeing to make payments. 
Ive also considered Miss Rs points that she was vulnerable at the time of this scam. The 
CRM Code includes a provision to refund customers who are vulnerable. It sets out that a 
customer should be considered vulnerable if it would not be reasonable to expect those 
customers to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming a victim of an app scam, 
against that particular scam. This means an individual can be vulnerable to a scam based 
on their particular circumstances at the time of the scam. Ive considered whether I think this 
applies to Miss Rs circumstances, but I havent concluded that it does. While I dont doubt 
the beginning of the pandemic was a difficult time for Miss R and that references to suicide, 
similar to Miss Rs personal experiences may have played on Miss Rs emotions, I dont 
consider it unreasonable to expect her to be able to protect herself in the circumstances, so 
I think NatWest has acted fairly by still applying the additional criteria of the Code when 
assessing her claim.
With all of the above in mind, in the particular circumstances of this case, I consider that 
Miss R ought to have had concerns about the legitimacy of the private investigator she had 
contact with and that, in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Miss Rs 
part. In not carrying out sufficient checks I dont find she had a reasonable basis for believing 
the private investigator was genuinely investigating a case for her and so fell below the level 
of care expected of her under the CRM Code.
Should NatWest have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Miss R?
Ive thought about whether NatWest did enough to protect Miss R from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Miss R made these payments, NatWest should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
NatWest has acknowledged it couldve done more to protect Miss R from financial harm for 
payments she made from account 2, but Ive considered whether Halifax should have done 
more to protect Miss R when she made the payments from account 1 to the fraudster. 
Having considered the payments made on account 1, I dont think their value or frequency 
was so remarkable that they shouldve appeared as suspicious to NatWest. I therefore dont 
think NatWest failed to meet its standards under the Code by not providing Miss R with a 
warning, prior to processing the payments.
While NatWest has refunded most payments from account 2, it didnt offer any refund on the 
payment of £9,659, as Miss R had already received a 50% refund from the beneficiary bank. 
The Code states that where both the sending bank, receiving bank and customer are liable 
for a transaction, liability should be split equally between all parties. I therefore think 
NatWest should refund Miss R a further 16% of this transaction, so Miss Rs liability is 33%, 
rather than 50% - which it has agreed to do.I also think that for fraudulent payments made from account 2 between 6 April 2020 and 18 
April 2020, which NatWest agreed to refund 50% of from a later date, 8% simple interest 
should also be applied in line with our approach - from the date the payments were made 
until the date of settlement. NatWest has also agreed to this. Miss R has been made aware 
of the further settlement offers made by NatWest.
Overall, Im satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable assessment of Miss Rs fraud claim 
under the CRM Code, and that NatWest shouldnt be held further liable for Miss Rs losses. 
I do sympathise with Miss R as shes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam. But the 
circumstances of the case and the evidence available lead me to find that she should also 
be held liable for some of those losses incurred.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partially uphold Miss Rs complaint 
against National Westminster Bank Plc. I require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Provide a 16% refund for the payment of £9,659 Miss R made to the fraudster
Provide a 50% refund on all other fraudulent payments Miss R made from account 
2, on any payments where this refund has not already been provided 
Pay 8% simple interest, from the date these payments were made until the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman