DRN-2336452
The complaint
Mrs H complains, on behalf of the trust F, that Zurich Assurance Ltd allowed one of the 
trustees to cancel the policy and that it didnt communicate with the other trustees about this.
What happened
In 2002 Mr and Mrs F set up a reviewable whole of life assurance policy which they placed in 
a trust, F. The sum assured was £80,000 to be paid out on a last death basis and the policy 
had no surrender value.
Sadly, Mrs F passed away in 2015 and Zurich was notified at that time.
In August 2019 Mr F received his annual review letter from Zurich confirming the sum 
assured and the monthly premium. Mr F then called Zurich to discuss the policy. At this time, 
the trustees of the policy were Mr F and his two daughters, Mrs H and Ms D.
During the call, Mr F told Zurich he wanted to know the value of the policy. He was advised 
the policy had no surrender value and that the sum assured would only be paid when he 
passed away. Mr F told Zurich he saw little value in continuing the policy as he was in his 
80s and had no dependents so wanted to know the value of the policy if it was stopped. 
Zurich again confirmed it had no value. Mr F told Zurich he was inclined to cancel the policy, 
and so he was put through to an advisor who could assist him.
In the second part of this call Mr F was asked if he wanted to cancel the policy and he 
confirmed he thought it was the sensible thing to do. The advisor offered to discuss options 
to reduce the premium cost, but Mr F confirmed he wanted to cancel. The Zurich adviser 
then explained there were two ways this could be done. The first was described as the 
simpler, least official way, which was to stop the direct debit. After 90 days, if Mr F didnt 
respond to letters asking him to make the payment, cover would end. The second option 
was for the trustees of the policy to write to Zurich and request cancellation. Mr F said he 
wanted to go with the option of cancelling the direct debit. The Zurich advisor asked Mr F if 
he wanted it to cancel the direct debit its end and he agreed.
Zurich then wrote to Mr F to notify him when the payments failed and then again to explain 
the cover had stopped in November 2019.
In January 2020 Mrs H realised the policy had been cancelled and got in touch with Zurich. 
At this time Mrs H and Ms D also had power of attorney to manage Mr Fs financial affairs. 
F asked Zurich to reinstate the policy. It refused and so Mrs H complained on behalf of F.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint and so Mrs H brought Fs concerns to our service. 
In particular, she noted:
That it wasnt fair for Zurich to rely on an unofficial method of cancellation which 
happened over the phone despite the fact the policy contract was written.
Mr F didnt cancel his own direct debit. And in the call that discussed cancellation, 
Mr F was told that both he and Zurich had to cancel the direct debit.
Zurich didnt take the time to question Mr Fs comments that he didnt have 
dependents or ask about the beneficiaries of the policy. 
Mr F was 87 and can be a vulnerable adult at this age. Zurich has a responsibility to 
check if a consumer is vulnerable. 
Mr F had received no advice and wasnt directed to speak to his broker. 
The fact Mr F asked for a valuation shows he didnt understand the cover so this 
should have alerted them to a problem.
Zurich didnt write to any of the other trustees of the policy to notify them of the failed 
payment or cancellation of the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. So, F asked for the complaint to be referred to 
an ombudsman.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach a different decision than the
investigator. So, I shared my provisional findings with Zurich and F so they had the
opportunity to make any comments or provide further evidence. My provisional findings
were:
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised by Mrs H, this decision only addresses those 
issues I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision
.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And I can see it references two ways in 
which the policy could be cancelled after the first 30 days. The first is that the policyholder 
can cancel the policy. The second is that Zurich can cancel if the policyholder doesnt make 
their payments.
Im satisfied, having listened to the call between Zurich and Mr F, that he clearly told Zurich 
he wanted to cancel the policy. Mr F wasnt the policyholder here, F was. But he was one of 
the trustees and the person paying the premiums. I think Zurich explained the consequences 
of cancellation to him and offered to look at options to reduce the premium. Mr F declined 
this and so Zurich explained the ways in which he could ensure the policy was cancelled. 
I appreciate the advisor referred to these methods as official and unofficial, but Im 
satisfied both were allowed within the terms and conditions of the policy.
I think its worth noting that the decision Mr F made during this call was to get Zurich to 
cancel the direct debit. The policy itself wasnt cancelled until 90 days after the missed 
premium. Ive seen nothing to suggest direct debit instructions, or cancellations, couldnt be 
taken over the phone. And given the direct debit was a financial arrangement between Mr F 
and Zurich, I wouldnt expect Zurich to require the permission of the trustees to act on this. 
Mr F also clearly instructed Zurich to cancel the direct debit. So, I think Zurich acted 
reasonably in doing so. Whilst I acknowledge Mr F didnt cancel his own direct debit, and 
that the advisor stated this would be part of the process during the call, Ive seen no 
evidence this was required. And I think the letters Zurich then sent Mr F provided him with 
sufficient warning that the payment had been missed and sufficient opportunity to get back in 
touch if hed changed his mind.
 
That being said, where it was intending to cancel the policy due to the non-payment of 
premiums, Id have expected Zurich to have notified the other trustees as well as Mr F.Zurich told us that all automated correspondence for the trust was sent to Mr F as the settlor 
and a trustee. Zurich said it would only correspond with the other trustees if it was asked to, 
which it was not. But Ive seen no evidence that Zurich was given instructions to administer 
the trusts policy in this way. The trustees were responsible for the policy and for paying the 
premiums, and so I think its reasonable they were notified of key matters relevant to the 
policy. Whilst I think it might be fair for the general administration correspondence to be sent 
to one designated trustee, this was a significant development which effectively ended the 
policy that the trustees were responsible for. And Zurich had no information to suggest the 
other trustees were aware of this. Both Mrs H and Ms D were written to when the policy was 
set up, so Im also satisfied Zurich held information to enable this contact. Had it done so, I 
think its likely Mrs H and Ms D would have ensured the premiums were met and that the 
policy continued.
Mrs H has told us that Mr F was vulnerable and didnt fully understand the consequences of 
the decision he made, having forgotten why the policy was set up. I wouldnt expect any 
business to assume that a person needed to be treated differently due to their age unless it 
received information advising this was the case  to do so could be considered 
discriminatory. And Ive seen no evidence Zurich was made aware Mr F was vulnerable in 
advance of this call. But having listened to the call, I do think there was evidence within what 
Mr F said that could have alerted Zurich to possible concerns  Ill explain why. 
Mr F rang to ask about the surrender value of the policy, which shows he wasnt aware of 
how it worked. Its not unusual for people to be unsure about how life assurance policies 
work, and I think Zurich took the time to explain this to Mr F. But in the early part of the 
conversation the Zurich advisor had to repeat this, which indicates Mr F wasnt fully 
understanding the information he was then being given.
Of greater concern was the rationale Mr F provided for no longer needing the policy  Mr F 
advised he had no dependents. The policy was set up to pay out a lump sum on a second 
death basis as part of inheritance tax planning, so by its very nature it intended to benefit 
someone other than Mr F. Zurich had details of the policy which was held in trust and had 
two named beneficiaries, his daughters. So, the information available to Zurich and what 
Mr F was telling the advisor didnt match up. This wasnt questioned or explored with Mr F.
I appreciate its not for Zurich to question the instructions it receives without good reason. 
But I think Zurich should reasonably have asked some questions of Mr F here. That being 
said, even if Zurich hadnt realised there was any cause for concern at the time, Zurich was 
later told by Mrs H that Mr F was vulnerable when this decision was made. Zurich was told 
that Mrs H and Ms D were now exercising their power to manage Mr Fs financial affairs 
under an enduring power of attorney. Given that the trustees raised this with Zurich within six 
months of the first missed premium, and as soon as they reasonably became aware, I do 
think it would have been fair for Zurich to reinstate the policy, subject to F paying the missing 
premiums. The policy had been paid into in good faith for years. So, it seems unfair for 
Zurich not to offer F the opportunity to put things right.
Zurich told Mrs H that it couldnt reinstate the policy outside of the 90-day window because 
the policy was taken out on gender specific rates. It said reinstating the policy outside of this 
window would mean creating a new policy. Zurich said it would be against the European 
Union Gender Directive legislation to issue a new policy on gender specific rates. But I dont 
think this would have been a new policy as Zurich has suggested. What F asked for was 
the re-instatement of the pre-existing policy. And I think Zurich could and should have done 
this considering the circumstances of this case
.Taking everything into account, I dont think Zurich has acted reasonably. To put things right 
I think it should reinstate the policy, subject to payment of the missed premiums. I also think 
it should pay F £100 for the inconvenience thats been caused here. I think this amount fairly 
reflects the inconvenience caused by Zurichs errors whilst recognising it was not 
responsible for the decision Mr F made to cancel the direct debit.
Response to my provisional findings
F accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to add.
Zurich disagreed. It found it disappointing that Id provisionally upheld the complaint given it 
said I concluded:
the Business has not done anything wrong in administering the plan, has not acted outside 
of the Terms & Conditions agreed with Mr F at outset and that Mr F was clear on what action 
he wanted to take in respect of his plan, and was provided with sufficient prompt to 
reconsider his decision after premium payments were stopped.
Zurich said there was no evidence to show that the other trustees were not aware of Mr Fs 
cancellation of the plan. And it highlighted my agreement that there was no reason to doubt 
the validity of the instruction provided by Mr F. 
It felt an appropriate resolution would for Zurich to consider the reinstatement of the plan and 
that this would be dependent on Mr Fs health and subject to the payment of the missed 
contributions and a valid method for future premium collection.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Zurich that Mr F was clear what action he wished to take. But ultimately, it 
wasnt his plan, it was Fs. And I think one of the key issues here is that Zurich has treated 
the policy as though it belonged only to Mr F. 
So, whilst I agree with Zurich that Mr F was given sufficient opportunity to reconsider his 
decision, I dont think F was sufficiently informed of Zurichs intention to cancel the policy or 
given the opportunity to take action to prevent this. 
The other trustees have told us they werent aware of the action Mr F had taken and this is 
supported by their efforts to reinstate the policy as soon as they found out. I think the fact 
power of attorney is now in place also strengthens their suggestion Mr F did not fully 
understand or communicate this decision to them at the time. Overall, I think the evidence 
strongly indicates the other trustees were not aware of Mr Fs decision to cancel the direct 
debit or Zurichs decision to cancel the policy. And I dont think it was reasonable for Zurich 
to assume the other trustees would be informed, given it hadnt been told to administer the 
policy in this way.  
I also think its clear from my provisional decision that I do think there was reason to question 
the instruction from Mr F. But I also accept that he was able to cancel his direct debit and I 
dont think Zurich acted unreasonably in allowing him to do so. 
I think that had Zurich sufficiently informed F about the action it planned to take, the 
cancellation could have been avoided. So, I dont think Mr F should be subject to a medical 
or that the reinstatement of the plan should be open to consideration as suggested by Zurich. I dont feel this would be fair.
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded to change my findings here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Zurich 
Assurance Ltd to:
Reinstate Fs policy subject to Fs payment of the missed premiums. 
Pay F £100 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman