DRN-2704150
The complaint
Mrs G complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial 
Services mis-sold her a new finance agreement and did not tell her that she needed to 
voluntarily terminate the old agreement. 
What happened
Mrs G explains that she was contacted in February 2020 by her local MINI dealership and 
asked whether she would be interested in upgrading her current car to a new car. Mrs G 
explains that she had another year to run on her current agreement but in discussions with 
the dealership she arranged to purchase a new car and return the old one.
Mrs G explained that she made what she thought would be the last repayment on the old car 
in February 2020 and collected her new car on 4 March 2020. Mrs G said that she was told 
to bring her old car to the dealership where it would be checked over and the mileage taken. 
Mrs G left her old car at the dealership and completed a transfer slip transferring ownership 
to the dealer. Mrs G drove away in her new car after being reassured that the paperwork 
was complete.
Mrs G discovered at the end of March 2020 that MINI Financial Services had taken two 
payments from her account, one for the new car and one for the old car. Mrs G attempted to 
contact MINI Financial Services but because of the national lockdown she was unable to 
speak to anyone. A further payment for the old car was taken in April 2020 and May 2020 
until Mrs G cancelled the direct debit. Mrs G explained that when she eventually spoke to 
someone at MINI Financial Services, she was told that she should have arranged to cancel 
the contract and return the car. 
The contract was voluntarily terminated in June 2020 and MINI Financial Services wrote to 
Mrs G explaining that a payment of £286.57 was due. Mrs G complained about the 
payments that had been taken incorrectly to MINI Financial Services and explained that the 
salesman never made it clear to her that she would be responsible for terminating the 
agreement and returning the car. MINI Financial Services confirmed that the agreement had 
been terminated and the car was awaiting collection. It did not agree to refund the additional 
repayments.
Mrs G was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and thought that MINI Financial Services were responsible for mis-
selling Mrs G the finance agreement and it should refund Mrs G for the payments taken 
since March 2020. Mrs G agreed. MINI Financial Services initially responded and said that it 
had not investigated this aspect of Mrs Gs complaint. It later replied to say that it didnt 
accept it had done anything wrong and it was Mrs Gs responsibility to inform it of the 
arrangements and it couldnt be expected to know what had happened to the car otherwise. 
MINI Financial Services asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are well known to the parties and so I wont repeat them in detail in this decision. 
The essence of Mrs Gs complaint is that she was misled into taking out an additional 
finance agreement without it being made clear to her what was required to settle the old one.
I agree with the analysis of the investigator that MINI Financial Services are responsible for 
what was said by the dealership when Mrs G was deciding whether to enter into the new 
agreement under Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act.
I think it is likely that Mrs G was told that the old agreement would be settled, and the old car 
would essentially be exchanged for the new one. It is inconceivable that Mrs G would leave 
her old car with the dealership if she was made aware that she would still be responsible for 
it and it needed to be returned to MINI Financial Services. Similarly, she would not have 
completed a transfer slip for the dealership to be registered as the new keepers of her car. 
These actions all indicate that Mrs G was under the impression that the agreement was 
settled, and the car was no longer her responsibility. There is nothing from the dealership to 
show that it was explained to Mrs G that she would need to cancel the agreement and the 
actions in taking possession of the car are inconsistent with this. For these reasons I think it 
is likely that Mrs G was told that the old agreement would be settled, and the new contract 
would begin.
It is clear that Mrs G was looking to upgrade her car. It is likely that she agreed to the new 
contract based on what was said to her about the arrangements for settling the finance on 
the old car. Mrs G was told there was nothing to pay towards the old car and the new 
agreement would start after she collected the old car. It is unlikely she would have agreed to 
pay for two cars especially when she had no access to the old car.
It isnt clear what happened between the dealership and MINI Financial Services about the 
return of the car, but it has now been sold on. The actions of the dealership support Mrs Gs 
account of what was explained to her and in the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
her to rely on what she was told. 
Putting things right
I think that Mrs G has suffered a loss as a result of the misinformation provided at the time of 
entering into the agreement. MINI Financial Services should refund Mrs G all the 
repayments made after 4 March 2020 under the old agreement. Interest should be added to 
the refund at the rate of 8% simple p.a. from the date the repayment was made until Mrs G 
gets it back.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as MINI Financial Services should put things right by refunding Mrs G as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman