DRN-3691007
The complaint
Mr T complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2018.
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to MMF.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ts employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr T was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to MMF 
which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about his 
circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr T was 26 years old, unmarried and living with parents.
Mr T didnt own his own home, but he had a share in a buy-to-let investment which 
was valued at £140,000 and which had a mortgage of around £114,000 outstanding.
Mr T earned around £28,000 per year. 
With almost 9 years service, the cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Ts 
BSPS was approximately £74,989. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65.
Mr T had joined the new TATA defined contribution (DC) pension scheme as a 
consequence of the BSPS ceasing new contributions.
MMF set out its advice in a suitability report in January 2018. In this it advised Mr T to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. MMF said 
this would allow Mr T to achieve his objectives. Mr T accepted this advice and so transferred 
out. In 2021 Mr T complained to MMF about its advice, saying he shouldnt have been 
advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it ought to be upheld. But MMF still said it hadnt done anything wrong and was 
acting on the financial objectives Mr T had at the time. A second investigator looked at the 
complaint and also came to the same conclusion that it ought to be upheld; they also 
recommended a payment to Mr T of £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
As this complaint cant be resolved informally its been sent to me to make a Final Decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of MMF's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, MMF should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Ts best interests. I have also carefully considered the final 
response letter from MMF. Ive carefully considered too, the various other responses made 
to the points contained within our investigators views. I have also recently contacted the 
parties myself to establish whether they have anything to add ahead of me making a 
decision.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Introductory issues
Id like to start by referring to the timeline of events. Ive already described above how 
members of the BSPS were given until 22 December 2017 to decide whether or not to join 
the BSPS2. Its not entirely clear whether Mr T ever made that choice. However, theres no 
evidence that he did. Perhaps understandably, he cant remember now if he ever filled out 
his Time to Choose form although he did send me a transfer analysis document about his 
pension which was dated 3 October 2017. This is often referred to as a TVAS.
However, theres no evidence this TVAS was completed by MMF. I say this because it 
differs considerably in style from the MMF headed TVAS Ive seen which is dated 14 
January 2018. This tends to suggest that MMFs dealings with Mr T only started in January 
2018 and this is corroborated by a number of other documents. I can see, for example, that 
the client agreement between Mr T and MMF is dated 11 January 2018. A fact-find is dated 
11 January too and a risk profile report is dated 15 January. The suitability report is dated 15 
January  all these dates are in 2018  and within this document it says Mr T is a new 
client. 
So, all this strongly implies that whilst Mr T may well have been thinking about transferring 
his pension or seeking financial advice, as of late 2017, its far more likely that he missed the 
22 December 2017 deadline to make a choice about what he wanted to do with regards his 
existing BSPS. There is no documentation, which Ive seen, showing he did make a choice 
to say he wanted to join the BSPS2. And we know that if no choice was made then the 
member would eventually move from the BSPS, which was no longer an option, to the PPF, 
if they didnt transfer away to a personal pension type arrangement.
I think its also much more likely that Mr Ts dealings with MMF were several weeks after the 
hard deadline of 22 December 2017 as this is what all the above documentation is telling 
me. I therefore think the advice process was only conducted throughout January 2018 and 
beyond, by MMF. 
I should say that none of this really matters to the actual suitability of the advice  as I 
explain below, it was unsuitable overall. Nevertheless, it does matter to the redress that 
could be due for providing the unsuitable recommendation to transfer away: redress should 
be measured against as if the member would have joined the PPF, rather than the BSPS2.  
This is a departure from the redress recommendation made by our investigator which Ive 
already corrected with both parties. Neither party has told me that Mr T ever elected to join 
the BSPS2 within the time allowed. So redress will be based on the PPF as this was his only 
other option.
Financial viability 
MMF referred in its transfer analysis and suitability report to critical yield rates. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity benefits 
as the DB scheme. 
The critical yield comparison was a requirement from the regulator at the time when advising 
clients on DB transfers. Its also important to point out that the critical yield comparison is 
only one of a number of different metrics Ive used to compare the different schemes. 
As Ive said, at least two transfer analysis documents were produced for Mr T. However, Ive 
focussed on the TVAS dated 14 January 2018 as this is the most recent and it represented 
the type of fund Mr T was ultimately recommended to transfer into. It also appears to be the only one completed by MMF. In this document the critical yield required to match the 
benefits at the age of 65 in the existing scheme, was listed as 4.28%. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
4.7% per year for 38 years to retirement (age 65). But even though an early retirement was 
clearly mentioned during the advice sessions, no critical yield was published that I can see 
for retiring early.
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. At the time, MMF 
assessed Mr Ts attitude to risk (ATR) as adventurous or a level of 8/10. But Ive also seen 
references elsewhere to his ATR being lower. The fact-find, for instance, clearly says his 
ATR is moderate-to-adventurous.
But in reality, Mr T had no previous experience of these types of investments. He was given 
a questionnaire about his investment experience with pre-determined questions about his 
investing history, if he had any. This indicates to me that Mr T wasnt an experienced and / 
or confident investor and I think adventurous was far too high a category to put Mr T into. 
Ive taken into account that Mr T had evidently invested in a property to rent. But thats a 
quite different type of investment to having a personal pension arrangement. I also accept 
hed joined the new TATA DC scheme which involved investing, but again Ive seen nothing 
showing this was conducted under anything other than an off the shelf investment strategy 
which required no direct investment decisions from Mr T himself. In any event, hed only just 
joined this a few months before. Ive also noted that although he had £5,000 in savings, 
theres no evidence these funds were held in anything other than a type of deposit account. 
An adventurous investor would normally be expected to have significant investment 
experience  this is even set out in the explanation section in MMFs own forms used at the 
time. In my view, theres no indication Mr T had such experience.
In summary then, the adviser used a pre-populated questionnaire to arrive at an ATR 
categorisation which was much higher than I think it ought to have been. However, they 
seemed to ignore the obvious fact that Mr T was a 26-year-old steelworker with no such 
investments, no previous experience to draw upon and a questionable attitude to stock 
market fluctuations. Because he was so young, I think its also fair to say he probably had 
very little idea of what retirement might look like for him. So, realistic growth assumptions 
close to the lower end of the regulators range, and also close to the discount rate, were 
most relevant here in my view. 
MMF said at the time that the critical yield of 4.28% was achievable. It was basing this on the 
BSPS which of course was no longer an option for Mr T. The critical yield for the PPF was 
4.04% although I think Mr T was thinking this wouldnt be what he wanted to move into at 
that time. I dont doubt it was possible to reach close to this lower growth rate, particularly 
given that Mr T had many years ahead in which he could ride out the peaks and troughs of 
the investment cycles. However, in my view, there would be little point in transferring away 
from a DB scheme only to achieve broadly similar financial benefits at retirement. But even if 
I accept that a growth rate of around 4.5% -to- 5% was realistic and possible, and this is moderately above the critical yield, Id also need to factor in the costs and fees associated 
with a personal pension plan and which Mr T didnt have in his existing BSPS, the BSPS2or 
PPF. As our investigator explained these were around 0.95% per year.
To be clear then, looked at through the prism of 2017, there was a chance of Mr Ts 
transferred funds growing by enough to match the critical yield. However, as Ill explain more 
about later, whether this alone was enough to make transferring a worthwhile exercise 
overall, is another matter. There was still no guarantee hed exceed the critical yield, 
particularly as MMF had clearly exaggerated his ATR. I therefore dont think a persuasive 
case for transferring only on this basis was made. The risks of receiving lower overall 
pension benefits at retirement were quite high.
As Ive said, the critical yield is only one aspect of assessing the financial viability of a 
transfer such as this. Ive also noted that using the NRA of 65, MMFs own transfer analysis 
said that even in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the 
estimated benefits provided by the existing scheme, assuming no spouses pension, no 
increases in payment and no guarantee at retirement, the estimated fund required was 
£165,885. This was over two times more expensive than Mr Ts CETV  and for a much 
inferior pension. So, in my view, these costs provide a revealing window into the real value 
Mr T could lose if he transferred out to a personal pension plan.
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, MMFs own 
figures, shown in its suitability report and transfer analysis documents, showed that 
transferring to a personal pension plan did not mean Mr T was more likely to receive higher 
pension benefits in the longer term. MMF inflated Mr Ts ATR and was obliged to take note 
of the regulators starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme, that it is most likely 
unsuitable.
Ive also considered some projections MMF used to help show that if he transferred out to a 
personal plan, the funds could last Mr T well into retirement. I think most of these were 
based on growth projections using past performance, which isnt ever guaranteed. Its also 
fair to say these were not comparing like-with-like. What MMF was showing Mr T were 
comparisons with plans which lacked the wider guarantees and benefits of a DB scheme. 
Of course, according to MMF, its recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal 
pension was not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. 
Rather, MMF said Mr T also had other reasons to transfer away. 
Ive considered these below. 
Other needs and objectives
Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was 
suitable for him. Ive done this by carefully assessing all the different documents from the 
time, recording Mr Ts thoughts and those of the adviser. Our investigator listed some of 
these and in particular, Ive considered the fact-find and suitability report in coming to a 
judgement about what Mr Ts objectives were, and why the adviser chose to recommend the 
transfer to a personal pension arrangement.
Ive also got no doubt that Mr T probably went to MMF with a somewhat fixed view of what 
he thought was a good idea. I think Mr F probably thought at that stage that transferring 
away was reasonable, particularly as hed started another pension scheme which also was 
stock market based.However, I think its important to remember two things here. The first is that all the evidence 
tends to show that Mr T was a young man with no experience of this type of money market 
investing. He had no current investments and no experiences to draw upon. To this end, 
MMF wasnt there to simply transact what Mr T might have thought  with little or no 
knowledge  was a good idea. He had every right to expect that the adviser would use their 
much greater knowledge and experience to recommend what was really in his best interests, 
whatever he himself initially thought. The second thing to think about is that MMF was being 
paid for this advice. So, again, I think the expectation here is that it would actually do 
something for this: by this I mean its job wasnt to simply transact a transfer in the face of 
evidence showing it probably wasnt the right thing to do.
In my view, the following themes were given as rationale for the transfer-away advice:
The adviser took note of Mr T apparently wanting to retire early, with the age of 57 
mentioned. 
Transferring to the personal pension allowed the flexibility to draw a tax-free lump 
sum and a varied or different income at retirement. MMF said this option was not 
available with a defined benefit pension. 
He evidently wanted to take control of the pension funds himself.
The death benefits in the DB scheme werent important to him.
I have therefore considered all these issues in turn. 
Retiring early
I think its important to focus for a moment here on just how young Mr T actually was in 
pension terms. The evidence Ive seen is that Mr T  understandably - had absolutely no 
plans whatsoever for his retirement. With over 38 years still left to when hed be actually 
contemplating retiring if using his NRA, theres simply no way that what he might possibly 
use the money for, should have been a major influence in him deciding to irreversibly move 
away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an investment risk which Mr T had no 
meaningful experience of. 
So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr T probably wanted to stop working as early as 
possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only ever have been vague 
retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no plan to retire early. 
I therefore think that everything that flowed from predicting Mr Ts retirement was flawed. For 
example, I dont think theres any real credibility behind Mr T estimating how much hed need 
to live on each month when he retired as this was so far off. I think its likely this was 
instigated by the adviser. In any event, the fact-find said Mr Ts target annual income in 
retirement was £10,000, whereas the suitability report said £20,000 (in todays money). I 
think this reflects the challenges in predicting what retirement might look like, so far ahead of 
when it was actually due. Mr T still had his whole life ahead of him and its reasonable to 
assume he might possibly marry and possibly have children too. And even if his life did not 
follow this pattern, there were many years in which his personal and financial circumstances 
would almost certainly change. I think the adviser should have noted a clear vulnerability 
here in advising someone so young to withdraw from a guaranteed pension.
Flexibility and controlI also cant see that Mr T required flexibility in retirement in the way the adviser suggested. In 
any event, flexibility was poorly defined by MMF. I therefore think this was no more than a 
stock objective used to help justify the recommendation to transfer out to a personal plan. 
For example, Ive seen nothing that showed Mr T required changing how his retirement 
benefits ought to be paid. 
I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away from retirement age. In 
any event he already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his existing job as a 
consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new contributions. This DC pension 
was being significantly contributed towards by both Mr T and his employer - 6% and 10% 
respectively and still had up to 38 years left to run (even over 30 years if he did eventually 
retire early at 57). So, this secondary pension would have afforded Mr T any flexibility he 
might have needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr T wouldnt want to continue membership of 
a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was originally intended. Indeed, I 
think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, Mr T could have been in an agreeable 
position. On one hand hed have a small but meaningful existing deferred DB scheme. This 
would contain all the guarantees and benefits that such schemes normally bring which tend 
to include a promise to pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees also 
existed within the PPF. On the other hand, hed have also built up a substantial DC scheme 
over a long period of time and its not unreasonable to say hed have amassed a substantial 
six-figure sum in this by retirement. So, if Mr T ever found he needed flexibility, then hed be 
able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr T had either the capacity or true desire to exercise control 
over his funds. With his DB scheme, Mr T was being offered the opportunity to move to the 
PPF. Its true there were some differences in this scheme when compared to the original 
BSPS, but it remained a DB-type scheme nonetheless and was run for him by trustees. Mr T 
himself had no hands-on experience of these types of other DC money market investments 
and I think he would have found the complexity, scale and responsibility of managing almost 
£75,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the years ahead. What Ive seen tends to 
show Mr T would have required ongoing financial advice and support, all of which would cost 
him money which his DB scheme didnt require from him.
MMF itself set out the estimated pension hed get under the BSPS. Im not going to use up 
time explaining what these figures were because retirement was so far away in the future as 
to make these estimates almost completely irrelevant. However, MMF accepted without any 
apparent challenge that Mr T might have needed around £20,000 per year in todays money 
 something I seriously question given the incredibly distant timescale. What the adviser was 
accepting here was that Mr T could estimate how much hed need each month in around 38 
years time. 
However, I dont think theres anything showing Mr Ts pension entitlements wouldnt have 
met his likely requirements, without any need to transfer from a DB scheme. I dont think 
MMF adequately explained these things to Mr T as its advice simply discounted him 
transferring to the PPF to obtain flexibility which was poorly defined and which he didnt 
need.
I think Mr Ts circumstances here were much more aligned to him moving to the PPF and 
retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so. 
Death benefits Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The PPF contained certain benefits 
payable to a spouse and children if Mr T died. Mr T wasnt married and nor did he have 
children; I think the adviser included this as part of the rationale for saying the death benefits 
werent needed in this way.
Once again, I think this shows a significant lack of foresight by the adviser. I think its 
obvious, that as a 26-year-old male, there was every reason to assume Mr Ts 
circumstances might change in the years ahead. I think the value of these benefits were 
most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the PPF would have 
been useful to a future spouse and / or children if he predeceased them. I dont think MMF 
made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was.
I cant say to what extent life insurance was discussed. But at 26 years old, a modest term 
life insurance policy would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr T really did want 
to leave a large legacy for a specific relative or someone else. But more so, it doesnt appear 
that MMF took into account the fact that Mr T could have nominated a beneficiary of any 
funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr T already had plenty of 
options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
personal pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr T. I think this was 
no more than a generic issue and not meaningful to Mr Ts situation. 
Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme 
Its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and I 
think to a degree, he probably lacked trust in the company. Hed heard negative things about 
the PPF and MMF said he could have more control over his pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mr T was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and a negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was MMFs obligation to give Mr T an objective picture and recommend what was in his best 
interests. I think that MMF should have reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr T through the PPF would 
have still probably provided a significant minority of the income he would have needed at 
retirement, and it was still uncertain that hed be able to exceed this by transferring out, 
given his ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And although the increases in 
payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have led to MMFs 
recommendation to Mr T to transfer out altogether.
Suitability of investments 
MMF recommended that Mr T invest his funds in a personal pension. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr T and I 
dont think he wouldve insisted on transferring to a new personal pension if clear advice had 
been given to him, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme 
and migrate to the PPF. This means the investment in the new funds wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given. Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. 
His CETV may have been modest by most BSPS standards, but he was still giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the PPF. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr T might well still obtain lower retirement benefits. And I 
dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer and 
outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the PPF.
Mr T still had many more years before he intended to retire and much of the rationale used 
to justify the transfer-out recommendation was not wholly relevant to Mr Ts circumstances. 
I have considered, given the situation of the time, whether Mr T would have transferred to a 
personal pension in any event. I accept that MMF disclosed some of the risks of transferring 
to Mr T, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But ultimately it advised Mr T 
to transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr T would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against MMFs advice. I say this because Mr T was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if MMF had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think MMF should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for MMFs unsuitable advice. 
As the advice was in January 2018, I consider Mr T would have most likely opted to join the 
PPF, rather than transfer to the personal pension if he'd been given suitable advice and 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance. MMF should use the benefits offered by the PPF for 
comparison purposes.
MMF must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
MMF should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and our Service, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence 
of what MMF based the inputs into the calculator on.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, MMF should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment 
the personal pension,
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts MMFs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of the redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, MMF may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Our investigator recommended that MMF should pay Mr T for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr T in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr T. So I agree the recommended payment of £150 for distress 
and inconvenience. MMF should pay Mr T this amount in addition to the redress Ive set out 
above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct Mather & 
Murray Financial Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Mather & Murray Financial Ltd pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Mather & Murray 
Financial Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman