DRN-3268727
The complaint
Ms A complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly and provided her 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Ms A as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan Repaid
December
2016£2,200 36 months £107.82 £3,881.46 December 2019 
When Ms A complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly said that Ms A had around £325 disposable income left 
after paying its loan on top of all her other monthly outgoings and her spending on credit 
would be £394 after taking out this loan, which was around 26% of her income.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I think our 
adjudicator reached a fair and reasonable outcome and I am upholding Ms As complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why I say this. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
Alongside asking Ms A what her regular outgoings were each month, AvantCredit also 
carried out its own credit checks to understand Ms As credit history and current credit 
commitments and it took steps to verify that her declared income was around £1,500 per 
month  which its credit checks also showed.  
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Ms A 
applied for this loan the credit report it obtained for her showed that within the previous 
12 months she had defaulted on an account that was now with a debt collection agency (her 
fourth default in three years). 
She had a credit card with a balance of £2,448 which was substantially over the £1,850 
account limit and which she had relied on for cash advances totalling £1,260 - which is a 
particularly expensive way to obtain spending money. 
Her total debt balance had increased by around £200 over the previous 3 months and she 
had used all her available credit. 
It looked like Ms A often wasnt making any more than the minimum monthly repayments on 
the card which effectively serves mainly to extend the debt and it adds very significantly to 
the long term cost of that credit  repayments at that level are insufficient to make any 
meaningful inroads into card balances. 
AvantCredit calculated that Ms A was paying £339 in total each month towards her credit 
accounts (not including any mortgage). So it was evident that with her new AvantCredit loan, 
she would now need to spend at least £446 on her unsecured loans  which by my 
reckoning is almost 30% of her take home pay. 
On top of this , she had a mortgage and two secured loans on her house which cost her a 
further £242  meaning that Ms A would need to pay almost half her monthly income to 
service her credit commitments.  
Whilst having other outstanding lending or even an impaired credit history wouldnt be 
unusual for a borrower applying for this type of expensive borrowing, and it wouldnt 
necessarily be a bar to lending, I dont think AvantCredit took properly into account what the 
information it had gathered showed about Ms As overall financial situation and the likelihood 
of her being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
I've thought carefully about what I think a responsible lender should have made of all this 
information and in particular whether it was enough for AvantCredit to make a fair decision to 
lend, particularly as it understood that Ms A intended to spend the money  so it would be 
adding to her overall indebtedness.
I think our adjudicator was right to say that the indications were that Ms A wasnt managing 
her money well and she was already struggling financially. 
Despite its affordability assessment that suggested she had spare income, this was clearly 
contradicted by the signs AvantCredit saw that her finances were, in reality, under significant 
stress and her debt had become unmanageable. I think it was clear that its affordability assessment couldnt safely be relied on and I dont 
think AvantCredit was reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Ms A 
would be able to make its loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
Also, bearing in mind the repayment of this loan on top of the debt AvantCredit saw Ms A 
was already responsible for paying, I think its fair to say that Ms A needed to pay a 
significant portion of her income towards credit. And in my opinion, as a responsible lender, 
AvantCredit shouldve realised that Ms A would likely struggle to repay this loan  especially 
bearing in mind the 36 month loan term.
So, thinking about all the information AvantCredit had gathered, I cant reasonably say that it 
made a fair lending decision based on the information in front of it. I dont think AvantCredit 
was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Ms A. So it 
shouldnt have provided it and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
Our adjudicator mentioned that Ms A had sent us further information about her financial 
situation. I dont need to say more about this as I think AvantCredit had enough in the 
information in front of it to have realised that adding to Ms As debt was likely to be 
unsustainable for her and put her in the position of needing to borrow further in order to be 
able to repay her other debt. 
I would just mention that the up to credit report she sent us shows, as I think was reasonably 
foreseeable, that she ran into further, serious financial difficulties, including arrears on one of 
her mortgage accounts which potentially put her home at risk.
So it isnt correct to suggest that the fact Ms A repaid her loan on time with no issues means 
that she was able to do so in a way that was sustainable  thats not borne out by the 
information I've seen which supports my view that AvantCredits loan was detrimental to 
Ms A. 
So, I am upholding Ms As complaint that she should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Ms A 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Ms A in any other way. 
So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms A to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. 
But she has paid extra for lending that should not have been provided to her. In line with this 
Services approach, Ms A shouldnt repay more than the capital amount she borrowed.
AvantCredit should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms A received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Ms A made should be deducted from this amountif this results in Ms A having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
    whilst its fair that Ms As credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Ms As credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Ms A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman