DRN-4054418
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc unreasonably refused to refund 
transactions he didnt authorise in the sum of £18,813.83 which took place between 1 and 8 
August 2022. 
What happened
Mr S contacted Barclays on 8 August to explain there was unusual activity on this account 
which was also connected his mothers business account. Through its investigation Barclays 
saw that the disputed transactions amount to the following: 
Two Assisted Services Device withdrawals on 3 and 4 August 2022 for £4,000.
Ten ATM withdrawals between 1 and 7 August 2022 for £3,500.
54 retail transactions between 4 and 7 August 2022 for £11,313.83. 
It appears this activity was largely funded by transfers from Mr S mothers business account 
of £2,000 on 3 August 2022, £5,000 on 4 August 2022, another £5,000 on the same day and 
£6,000 on 8 August 2022 and another £460 also on that same day. These transfers were 
done via the mobile banking app suing a newly registered device, which Mr S says he didnt 
register. 
Barclays was of the view the phone was registered by Mr S on 1 August 2022 given it 
needed the debit card and PIN to register it. So, it took the view that the transactions were 
done by Mr S or someone on his behalf. So, it refused to refund them to Mr S. 
Mr S brought his complaint to us. The investigator was also of the view that Barclays hadnt 
done anything wrong. Mr S disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. Mr S also explained to the 
investigator that he wanted to provide more information. However, despite being reminded 
no such further information was received from Mr S before his complaint was passed to me. 
I again asked Mr S if he wanted to send in more information, but again no such information 
was sent in.
The regulations under which govern payment services are called the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs). Banks are under a duty to make the payment request when it presents 
as being authorised and authenticated. As in the payment is requested using the correct 
card and PIN for ATM transactions, the correct login details for mobile app transactions and 
the correct card and PIN for retail transactions.  Under the PSRs the consumer Mr S is liable 
for all authorised transactions. 
So in Mr S case, that means for all these transactions the alleged fraudster would have 
known Mr Ss PIN, have access to his debit card, have access to the login security 
credentials and passcodes for the banking app and his own phone plus the newly registered 
device. All over an eight-day period. This in itself doesnt appear that plausible, as fraudsters 
once they gain access to an account would tend to try and empty it very quickly before the 
victim could see what was happened and get the account blocked. 
Barclays said the new device registered to Mr S account on 1 August 2022 was registered 
using Mr S debit card and PIN. It was registered from an IP address similar to what Mr S 
used to login into the banking app, using the same internet provider and the same router Mr 
S has used. Mr S also said he lost his debit card on 5 August 2022 so he would have still 
had his card at the time of the registration of the new device  and indeed some of the 
disputed transactions too since they started on 1 August 2022. 
Many of the retail transactions would have required the PIN also, which Mr S is under a duty 
not to divulge to anyone. He did however admit on the phone to Barclays that his wife knew 
his PIN. More crucially in my view when Mr S needed to present himself to branch both on 4 
August and then again on 5 August 2022 to verify his identity he also confirmed his wife was 
using his debit card elsewhere in the country, shopping for a wedding.
There is no evidence to show me that there was any compromise of Mr S card and PIN or 
phone. On that basis it is more likely that not on the evidence I have seen that these 
transactions were properly authorised under the PSRs. 
Therefore, I dont consider Barclays did anything wrong in holding Mr S liable for these 
transactions and in refusing to refund them.
My final decision
For these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman