DRN-4409347
The complaint
Ms Zs complaint is about advice given by Medical Money Management (MMM) in 2007 to
transfer her Freestanding Additional Voluntary Contributions plan (FSAVC) with Wesleyan to
a stakeholder pension (SHP) with Norwich Union (now Aviva). Ms Z says shes financially
worse off as the annuity she couldve bought with her SHP fund was lower than the annuity
she couldve had from the FSAVC.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October 2023. Ive repeated here what I said about the 
background to Ms Zs complaint and my provisional findings. 
Weve previously dealt with Ms Zs complaint against Wesleyan about the sale of the 
FSAVC in 1993. We upheld that complaint. We said Ms Z shouldve bought added years in 
her employers occupational scheme (OPS) instead of taking out the FSAVC. Wesleyan was
required to undertake a loss calculation. Thats since been done based on Ms Z having
actually retired in July 2022 (just before her 61st birthday in September 2022). The loss
assessment showed that Ms Z hadnt suffered any loss as a result of taking out the FSAVC
instead of buying added years.
Ms Zs current complaint is about MMMs advice in 2007 to transfer the FSAVC to the SHP.
The FSAVC was invested in Wesleyans with-profits fund and had a guaranteed annuity rate
(GAR). The exact rate depended on the annuity option selected. The transfer value paid in
2007 was £26,523.
Initially the investigator upheld the complaint. He said the documents relating to the transfer
to the SHP didnt mention the GAR and that it would be lost if Ms Z transferred. The GAR
was important as, in many cases, it would be higher than the best available open market
annuity rate. The investigator said, if the GAR had been properly explained to Ms Z, shed
likely have retained the FSAVC plan. The investigator said MMM should undertake a loss
calculation.
MMM didnt accept the investigators view. Amongst other things, MMM referred to the low
bonus rates on the FSAVC plan; the fact that Ms Z hadnt taken benefits at age 60; her
significant OPS benefits and that she wanted flexibility, the potential for greater growth from
an alternative pension arrangement with active management, diversification and ethical
investment. MMM also pointed to Ms Zs earnings, her service in the OPS (34 years) and the
tax shed have paid if shed taken the GAR at age 60.
Ms Z said there were some inaccuracies in what MMM had said. For example, she had
slightly less than 30 years service in the OPS and shed always planned to retire at 60.
The investigator issued a revised view. He maintained that the SHP was mis sold as the
GAR was an important benefit that shouldve been explained at the point of sale. But he
didnt think Ms Z wouldve taken the GAR at age 60. It seemed she was in a better position
than if shed retained the FSAVC  the returns on her SHP had been significantly better than
the bonuses that wouldve been paid on the FSAVC.
In response Ms Zs representative told us that Ms Z had now retired. A copy of the revised
loss calculation on the added years complaint was provided, done on an actual, not
prospective, loss basis. It indicated the annuity that wouldve been available from the FSAVC
was £3,451.56 pa. An illustration for the SHP had also been obtained. It showed Ms Z could
buy an annuity of £2,535.15 pa. Ms Zs representative said both illustrations were on the
basis that Ms Z took 25% tax free cash.
The investigator shared Ms Zs further comments with MMM. The investigator said, as it was
unclear whether Ms Z was financially worse off as a result of having transferred to the SHP,
it would be fairest for MMM to complete a loss assessment.
MMM didnt agree. It said Ms Z was better off. The FSAVC benefited from a GAR (6.122%) if
taken at age 60 with no indexation increases and payable monthly in advance  so single life
with a five year guarantee. Current open market annuity rates with a ten year guarantee
were 6.06% at age 60. In October 2022 the value of the SHP was £52,203. An annuity rate
of 6.06% would produce an annuity of £3,163.50. The value of the FSAVC, if Ms Z hadnt
transferred, wouldve been £38,821. An annuity rate of 6.122% pa gave an annuity of
£2,192.96 pa. So Ms Z was £970.54 pa better off with the SHP. And the annuity quotation
for the SHP showed a fund value of £55,940.84 less 25% tax free cash (£13,985.15). The
annuity income was £2,535.15, based on the residual fund value of £41,955.63, which
equated to a rate of 6.04%. If that rate was applied to the full fund value it gave an annuity of
£3,378.83 pa, which was more than the FSAVC wouldve paid.
As agreement couldnt be reached the investigator told MMM and Ms Z that the complaint
would be referred to an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision as, since the complaint was referred to me, weve obtained
further information from Wesleyan. Ive referred to what Wesleyan has told us below. Weve
shared the new information with MMM and but Ms Zs representative hasnt seen it. Its
important, before I issue a final decision, that both parties understand how Ive come to my
decision and on what evidence its based. And where, as here, Im awarding redress, that
both parties see what that is and have the chance to comment.
After Id considered Ms Zs complaint on a preliminary basis, we told MMM that, from what
Id seen, I didnt think the sale of the SHP was compliant. As the investigator had pointed
out, the GAR doesnt seem to have been mentioned. I didnt think Ms Z wouldve switched to
the SHP if the GAR, which was valuable, had been discussed. I went on to explain why I
thought there was evidence that Ms Z had suffered a financial loss by switching to the SHP.
The SHP quotation was for an annuity after payment of 25% tax free cash. The annuity
using the whole fund would be £3,378.83 pa. The annuity which Wesleyan had referred to in
its calculations as what the FSAVC wouldve paid using the GAR was £3,451.56 pa. That
was on the basis Ms Z didnt take any tax free cash  the final sentence of the sixth
complete paragraph on page two of the loss assessment says, as Ms Z took the maximum
tax free cash permitted from her OPS benefits, it had been assumed that the plan (FSAVC)
benefits wouldve been taken as pension with no cash. So it wasnt right to compare the
£3,451.56 with the quotation of £2,535.15  which was after tax free cash had been paid.
But, if no tax free cash was taken, the annuity wouldve been £3,378.33, which was still
lower (£73.23 pa) than the £3,451.56 pa which Ms Z wouldve got from the FSAVC.MMM asked if Wesleyan could confirm the hypothetical value of the FSAVC when Ms Z was
60 and on 23 May 2023, the date of the SHP quotation.
We asked Wesleyan if it could provide a notional value for the FSAVC policy and details of
the annuity that wouldve been available using the GAR at both Ms Zs 60th birthday and the
date of her actual retirement in July 2022. We also said we werent sure of the basis on
which the GAR was available on either date  for example, if it was restricted to single life,
non increasing etc or if there were other options  and we asked for details.
Wesleyan said that the notional value of the FSAVC policy as at Ms Zs 60th birthday in
September 2021 was £137,655.17 and £158,374.82 when she retired in July 2022. Details
of the annuities available and information about the GAR were also given.
We thought the notional values seemed high, given that the transfer value paid in 2007 was
£26,523 and so it seemed the growth wouldve been around 12.5% pa compound. We asked
Wesleyan if they could check the figures and, if they were correct, provide details as to how
theyd been calculated.
Wesleyan did that and confirmed they were correct. Wesleyan said:
The notional values are correct; a breakdown of each is shown below and the end stage
calculations are attached.
To calculate these values, the following methodology has been used:
i) reversionary bonus for which the policy would have been eligible in the period
since transfer has been added (at the Societys historically declared rates) for
each intervening bonus year to the amount of reversionary bonus which stood
at the date of transfer;
ii) for the calculation at September 2021, the value of the policy is total of the
guaranteed cash sum (at the date of transfer), the appropriate reversionary
bonus derived from i) and the terminal bonus which would have then been
payable, each of which is increased by 5% as per the Societys standard
practice;
iii) for the calculation at July 2022, the value of the policy is total of the
guaranteed cash sum (ie the amount which would have been due if the
vesting date had been July 2022 when the policy was transferred), the
appropriate reversionary bonus derived from i) and the terminal bonus which
would have then been payable, each of which is increased by 5% as per the
Societys standard practice;
As at 3 September 2021:
Guaranteed Cash Sum: £31276.80
Reversionary Bonus: £21262.90
Interim Reversionary Bonus: £437.83
Terminal Bonus: £78122.63
Uplift (5%): £6555.01
Total: £137655.17
As at 3 July 2022:
Guaranteed Cash Sum: £32212.32
Reversionary Bonus: £22845.84
Interim Reversionary Bonus: £481.76
Terminal Bonus: £95293.24Uplift (5%): £7541.66
Total: £158374.82
NB Interim Reversionary Bonus is the reversionary bonus attributable to the period between
1 January and the valuation date in the year the value is calculated. Also, the revised
Guaranteed Cash Sum at July 2022 is based upon the Societys prevailing premium rates at
inception of the policy.
Wesleyan had also looked at the returns on the policies from an underlying asset point of
view and the enhancements applied. The returns on average since 2007 when the transfer
value was paid were 7% pa. On top of that, asset shares had been enhanced, to reflect the
closed fund being run off, in order to make sure any surplus is distributed at a fair rate. Since
2007 that had averaged 4% pa. On top of that there was the fact that pay outs for these
policies are smoothed and based on sample policies grouped by term. These policies which
became paid up early in the term on average tend to get a higher pay out than their
underlying asset share, due to the way pay outs at a grouped level are set.
Wesleyan said there were a variety of annuity options at age 60 and when Ms Z had retired
and the precise GAR would depend on the annuity selected.
We shared that information with MMM. We said, based on the information Wesleyan had
provided, it seemed Ms Z had suffered a loss in consequence of the transfer in 2007. MMM
didnt offer any further comments.
I propose to uphold the complaint. I dont think the advice to transfer from the FSAVC to the
SHP was suitable. And Im satisfied that Ms Z has suffered a financial loss  the annuity
available from the SHP is less than the annuity shed have been able to get from the
FSAVC. In the end thats come down to the higher notional fund value of the FSAVC. Recent
increases in annuity rates mean there may not be much difference in the GAR (and the
exact annuity rate will vary, depending on the annuity option chosen). But if, with suitable
advice, Ms Z wouldve retained the FSAVC, shes entitled to redress on that basis.
I went on to set out what MMM needed to do to put things right for Ms Z. 
MMM didnt offer any further comments in response to my provisional decision. Ms Z 
accepted my provisional decision. She said shed actually retired on 27 June 2022, she was 
in good health, she was a higher rate tax payer and shed prefer a cash payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further substantive comments, information or evidence my views 
remain as set out in my provisional decision which Ive repeated above and which form part 
of this decision.
Putting things right
Ive repeated the redress I set out in my provisional decision. But I note that Ms Z actually 
retired on 27 June 2022 and not, as Id thought, on 3 July 2022 and on which date Id based 
redress. The dates are only a few days apart and, in my view, sufficiently proximate on 
which to base fair and reasonable redress. So, and in the interests of bringing the matter to a 
conclusion as quickly as possible which would be in both parties interests, Ive repeated the 
redress I set out in my provisional decision. But, if Medical Money Management is unhappy with that, Medical Money Management should ask Wesleyan to provide the notional value of 
the FSAVC as at 27 June 2022. In which case that amount should be substituted for the 
figure of £158,374.82 and the date of 27 June 2022 used instead of 3 July 2022 and the 
below redress read accordingly.  
Wesleyan has said the notional value of the FSAVC on 3 July 2022 wouldve been 
£158,374.82 so that value should be used to determine what annuity Ms Z couldve bought 
on the assumption (consistent with the redress calculation on Ms Zs added years complaint) 
that she wouldnt have taken any tax free cash and shed have bought an annuity providing a
50% spouses pension, increasing in line with RPI and guaranteed for five years.
Ms Z wouldve had past payments from that annuity from 3 July 2022 to the date of
settlement. Interest at 8% simple pa should be added to each payment from the date it
wouldve been paid to the date of settlement. Ill call that amount (missed payments plus
interest) A.
Going forwards, Ms Z wouldve also been entitled to future annuity payments. The value of
those future payments is represented by calculating the current capital cost of buying the
same annuity based on Ms Zs current circumstances and taking into account any applicable
annuity expenses. Medical Money Management wish to require that Ms Z completes a 
medical/lifestyle questionnaire to ascertain if an enhanced annuity rate might be available to 
her. Ill call that amount B.
Medical Money Management should ascertain from Aviva the transfer value of Ms Zs SHP. 
Ill call that C.
Ms Zs loss and the amount Medical Money Management needs to pay to redress her is A+B 
less C.
Redress should, if possible, be paid into Ms Zs pension plan to increase its value by the
relevant amount. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available
tax relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Medical Money Management is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Zs pension plan, 
it should pay the relevant amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, 
it wouldve provided a taxable income. So the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Ms Z wont 
be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. Ms Z is now retired and 
the notional allowance should be calculated using her actual marginal rate of tax. Shes 
confirmed that shes a higher rate tax payer so on that basis the reduction would equal 40%.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Medical Money Management must redress Ms Z as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman