DRN-1326881
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 What happened
 In 2004 Mr and Mrs M were re-mortgaging their home and the bank recommended they also 
take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr M only. It cost just over £47 a 
month and would have paid out about £780 a month if Mr M had made a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs M say they both had good sick pay at the time and only bought the PPI because 
they thought they had a better chance of getting the mortgage they wanted if they did that. 
Mr and Mrs M think the bank was wrong to sell them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out below my reasons 
for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Ms main concern seems to be that they thought buying the PPI gave them a 
better chance of getting the re-mortgage they wanted. Halifax doesnt have the actual 
paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt surprising given the sale took 
place more than 15 years ago and the mortgage ended in 2006. I wouldnt expect either Mr 
and Mrs M or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs M 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. And I see that it was set up to cover Mr M only. 
That does suggest that a conversation took place about the PPI at the time and it was 
tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Ms needs. I think its also likely Halifax sent the relevant literature 
to Mr and Mrs M after the sale. I think this would have been before the PPI actually started, 
as theres normally several weeks delay between buying PPI and cover starting, which is 
when the mortgage begins. Thats what Halifax normally did, and I cant see any reason why 
it would treat Mr and Mrs M differently.Overall, I think Halifax most likely gave Mr and Mrs M enough information for them to know 
they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this over 
the years.
Halifax thinks it advised Mr and Mrs M to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure 
that it met his needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think 
the policy was suitable for him.
Mr M was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like Mr M would have been 
affected by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those 
relating to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr M says he would have received generous sick pay if he couldnt work. But this 
policy would pay on top of these benefits. A mortgage is a big commitment, and I 
think Mr and Mrs M would have had some use for the policy.
Halifax needed to give Mr and Mrs M enough information for them to make an 
informed choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told 
what the PI would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr 
and Mrs M first knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
Its possible that Halifax could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any 
of these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused 
him to change his mind about buying the policy. So he isnt any worse off as a result 
of anything Halifax may have done wrong. So theres nothing that Halifax needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Susan Peters
Ombudsman