DRN-2746352
The complaint
Ms H makes a number of complaints about her National Savings and Investment (NS&I) 
account.
What happened
Ms H opened a NS&I account and complains that the account terms and conditions do not 
make clear the payment clearance time and if a withdrawal is allowed. She also complains 
about how long her complaints took to be answered and says NS&I has unfairly stopped 
sending customers paper statements. Ms H would like compensation for the inconvenience 
she was caused and says NS&Is terms and conditions are misleading.
NS&I says it has answered Ms Hs complaints and explained the payment clearance times. It 
says Ms Hs account terms and conditions make clear that a withdrawal cant be made from 
the account, but it will consider a withdrawal application from customers in exceptional 
circumstances. NS&I says it made a business decision to stop sending customers paper 
statements, but customers can continue to receive paper statements if requested as Ms H 
has done.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained NS&Is deposit times and that the account terms and conditions make clear a 
debit card payment can take up to seven days. And didnt think that issue had any real 
impact on Ms H. The investigator thought the account terms and conditions made clear that 
withdrawals were not allowed but also thought it up to NS&I to decide if it would allow them 
on an exceptional basis. And that NS&I had responded to Ms Hs complaints within a 
reasonable time period. The investigator thought it up to NS&I to decide if it wished to stop 
sending paper statements unless a request was made to receive them in that format.
Ms H doesnt accept that view and in summary says she wasnt treated fairly and maintains 
the account terms and conditions make clear no withdrawals are allowed. She says the debit 
card payment time meant that £1,000 of her money was marked unavailable and NS&I 
hasnt explained its policy on paperless communication or taken into account the needs of its 
customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that NS&I has dealt fairly with Ms Hs 
complaints and I dont require it to do anything further in the circumstances of them. I 
appreciate Ms H will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly she feels about 
these complaints.
I make clear to Ms H what our role is, we are not NS&Is regulator. And so, its not our role to 
tell it how it runs its business or interfere in its exercise of its commercial judgement. So, we 
cant order NS&I to change its decision, for example, about the sending of paper statements 
or tell it what information it should include in its terms and conditions about the use of its 
discretion to allow withdrawals.
Im satisfied that having looked at NS&Is account terms and conditions that they make clear 
that a debit card payment may take up to seven days to clear. So, I dont think NS&I made a 
mistake by allocated Ms Hs money sent via faster payment to her account first and in any 
event, I dont think it made any difference or had any impact on Ms H as she has not told us 
that she wanted to withdraw her money.
I accept the account terms and conditions may not refer to the possibility of an account 
withdrawal. But Im satisfied that its up to NS&I to decide if its prepared to consider 
applications from its customers to do so in exceptional circumstances. I dont think Ms H has 
explained why she takes issue with that policy or how it has impacted on her. If Ms H wishes 
to make an application to withdraw money from the account, then no doubt she can ask 
NS&I.
I have looked at NS&Is responses to Ms Hs complaints and I think overall that it answered 
those complaints and within a reasonable time period.
I can see from NS&Is records that Ms H has requested paper statements and so I dont 
think there has been any real impact by NS&Is decision about paperless communication. I 
cant consider the impact on other NS&I customers and it would be for a court to decide if 
the Equality Act had been breached.
Overall, Im satisfied that NS&I has fairly answered Ms Hs complaints and for the reasons I 
have explained Im satisfied its not made a mistake or acted unfairly. Im also satisfied this 
brings an end to what we can do to try and resolve this complaint informally.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman