DRN-4348727
The complaint
P, a limited company complains that a mistake by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) led 
to financial losses.
P wants RBS to pay compensation. P is represented in its complaint by a director, Mr G.
What happened
P has a business bank account with RBS. In late November 2022, RBS incorrectly applied a 
restriction to Ps account. P says that because of this, it couldnt pay staff on time, direct 
debits were cancelled, charges applied and it lost out on a contract due to start the following 
week. Mr G says the restriction effectively put Ps business on hold.
Before this service became involved, RBS refunded charges that it applied for unpaid items 
and offered P £400. RBS said it would review evidence of Ps losses incurred because of the 
restriction. 
After considering the evidence provided by P, the first investigator told RBS that he thought 
its mistake meant that P couldnt fulfil a contract where work was due to start on 29 
November 2022. The investigator told RBS that the loss of profit to P was around £28,860 
and asked RBS to pay this to P together with the £400 already offered.
RBS disagreed with the investigators recommendation. It pointed out that the supplies were 
delivered to Ps customer on 24 November so couldnt understand why work couldnt start on 
29 November 2022. RBS said the restriction on Ps account was lifted on 1 December 2022 
so it could have bought supplies from this point. And it doubted that another party could have 
completed the work between the restriction being applied and then lifted.
RBS didnt think P had taken steps to mitigate its losses despite Mr G having access to 
substantial personal funds.
RBS said P had given contradictory information about the cancellation of the contract and 
that it now seemed it was Ps choice to cancel the work  and not its customer. RBS didnt 
think P had provided sufficient evidence of the loss of profits. 
P went on to provide further evidence of its losses to the investigator who then left the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. A new investigator considered Ps complaint and reached a 
different conclusion to the first investigator. 
In summary, the second investigator thought that RBS offer of £400 compensation together 
with the waiving of any fees was reasonable. He noted that RBS placed the restriction on Ps 
bank account on 28 November 2022 and then lifted it on 1 December 2022.  When Mr G 
contacted RBS on 29 November 2022, it said the restriction would be removed in two days  
which it was. The job was due to start on 29 November and at this point P still had access to 
its suppliers purchasing account. 
The second investigator noted the terms of Ps contract with its customer gave a 14 day 
cancellation period from the date of signing  2 November 2022. Ps customer was outside 
this period. The contract also provided that any notice of cancellation should be in writing.
Overall, the second investigator didnt think P had taken steps to try and reduce its losses 
and he didnt think that RBS actions led directly to Ps losses.
Mr G is very unhappy with the second investigation outcome. He cant understand why the 
second investigator hasnt found in Ps favour after the first investigator did. Mr G says hes 
given us everything that we asked for and points out that Ps complaint has been going on 
for more than nine months.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised Ps complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. I can also 
understand Mr Gs disappointment with the second investigation outcome, particularly after 
he has spent considerable time and effort providing evidence to us. 
RBS agrees that it made a mistake when it restricted Ps account, so my decision focusses 
on whether compensation of £400 together with the waiving of fees, goes far enough to put 
things right. It will disappoint P but I agree RBS proposed resolution is fair and I will explain 
why.
Mr G says P couldnt start work on the contract because of problems buying materials due to 
the account restriction. I dont doubt the challenges P faced but given the value of the 
contract which it stood to lose  I would have reasonably expected it to try other avenues to 
allow it to complete the work. The taking of steps to reduce a loss is also known as the 
mitigation of loss. P could have done this through accessing other funds such as taking a 
directors loan or using the directors personal bank account to make payments. 
I understand that Mr G didnt want to access his personal money but the evidence from RBS 
indicates that he had substantial funds in place to lend to P. The statements provided by 
RBS show that Mr G sometimes moved money online from his current account to a savings 
account and back again. So, it appears that Mr G could have made funds available to P, 
which would then have allowed it to complete the work as contracted.  
I also note that Ps supplier didnt place its purchasing account on stop until 1 December 
2022. As P was due to start work on the contract on 29 November 2022, its difficult to see 
how the stop on the purchasing account would have impacted the supply of materials before 
1 December 2022. 
Mr G says that Ps supplier didnt remove the restriction until 7 December 2022 and has 
provided written confirmation of this. As RBS removed the restriction on Ps account on 1 
December 2022, it would have seemed possible to get the supplier restriction lifted more 
quickly by paying any outstanding balance. Again, I cant find that RBS was responsible for 
P not having access to its supplier account until 7 December 2022. 
Although Mr G says that P orders materials once it arrives on site, it should have still been 
able to use the purchasing account until the supplier placed a stop on the account on 1 
December 2022. And for the reasons outlined above, if P had needed to buy materials from 
different suppliers, it could have tried to use an alternative bank account to do so. As I dont have evidence to suggest that P made alternative arrangements, it makes it difficult for me to 
find that RBS should be held responsible for the alleged loss of profit.
Ive also listened to the recordings of calls which took place between Mr G and RBS on 29 
and 30 November 2022 and 1 and 2 December 2022. Although Mr G tells RBS that P 
needed access to money to pay workers, buy fuel and generally run the business of P, he 
doesnt say that he has or will have to cancel the specific customers contract. I would have 
reasonably expected Mr G to relay this information to RBS during one of those calls but cant 
hear that he did. Without this, I dont think RBS could have been aware of exactly how 
urgent the lifting of the restriction was. 
At the end of the day, it was Mr G who told Ps client that due to a lack of funds P could not 
complete the work on time. This was Mr Gs choice to make on Ps behalf but I dont think 
losing the contract was an inevitable consequence of RBS restricting Ps account. 
Particularly as under the terms of the contract, Ps client was outside the period in which it 
could cancel the contract. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr G but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont consider it 
reasonable to require RBS to compensate P for any loss of profits that it says it incurred. 
RBS has already refunded any charges which P incurred due to the account restriction so I 
dont think I need to say more about this. I can see that Mr G spent time discussing the 
restriction with RBS over the course of a few days at the end of November into early 
December 2022. I assume that this diverted him away from running the business of P. I 
consider RBS offer to pay £400 fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to P. The amount 
offered sits in the range of award we might make where a mistake has caused significant 
inconvenience to sort out. And where the impact has lasted over several weeks or months or 
has had serious repercussions in the shorter term  as is the case with P. Our approach to 
awards of compensation can be found on our website. 
My final decision
RBS has already made an offer to pay £400 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances. So, my final decision is that if it hasnt already done so, The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay P £400. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman