DRN-3086125
The complaint
Ms A complains about the valuation Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited placed on 
her car when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy following its theft.
What happened
Ms As car was stolen, and she made a claim to Watford. It offered her £14,556, less the 
policy excess, in settlement of her claim. But Ms A looked at advertised examples and 
thought the car was worth around £22,000. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Watfords 
valuation of the car was too low. She checked the motor trade guides we use for similar cars 
and thought Watford should increase its offer by £1,017, which was the average of the 
valuations she found. 
Ms A replied that she thought advertised examples of similar cars were priced between 
£19,000 and £22,000. Watford replied that it had carried out the valuations correctly and it 
declined to increase its offer. It said the cars optional extras didnt increase the valuations it 
found. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms A wants a fair settlement for the loss of her car. I can see that her 
policy provides for the cars market value at the time of its loss. The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought Watfords valuation of Ms As car was too low. So Ive checked how 
she came to this conclusion. 
I can see that she checked three of the motor trade guides we use for cars of the same 
make, model, age, mileage and condition as Ms As car. She also asked one guide to 
provide a bespoke valuation taking into consideration the optional extras fitted to Ms As car. 
This guide said Ms As car had some desirable options that increased its market value. The 
investigator then took an average of the three valuations, in keeping with our approach.
Watford said the options didnt increase the valuations in the checks it made of three guides 
at the time of the cars loss. It said its engineers said that the options wouldnt add value due 
to the cars age. But I think it was fair and reasonable for the investigator to check this by 
asking for a bespoke valuation from one guide. This led to an increase. So I think this should 
reasonably be considered in assessing the cars market value. 
Watford said two of its valuations differed from those obtained by the investigator. I can see 
that one guides valuation was the same, one increased following the bespoke valuation, and 
one was higher. But I cant see that Watford has provided evidence of the valuations it used 
whilst assessing the claim, just the outcome amounts. So I cant check that they were 
correctly obtained. And so I think it was fair and reasonable for the investigator to not rely on 
any of the valuation figures Watford used, but instead to rely on the valuations she obtained.  
Ms A said shed found examples of cars similar to her own advertised at higher prices. But 
we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices 
and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide 
evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
So I agree with the investigator that Watfords valuation of Ms As car was too low. I think it 
should reasonably increase its offer to the average of the three valuations the investigator 
found in the trade guides. This was £15,573. And so I think Watford should pay Ms A £1,017 
further in settlement of her claim. And, as Ms A has been without her money for some time, I 
think Watford should reasonably add interest to this amount. 
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to pay Ms A £1,017 further in 
settlement of her claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple from the date 
of the claim to the date of payment. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Watford to take off tax from this interest. Watford must 
give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman