DRN-4052263
The complaint
Mr A has complained about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) settled a 
claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A contacted AA to make a claim when he lost a bracelet. AA assessed the claim and 
offered him £211.75, which was a cash settlement of £411.75 minus the £200 excess. It 
said, alternatively, it could offer a voucher which would allow Mr A to replace the bracelet like 
for like.
Mr A complained about the settlement offer. AA said it had offered a fair settlement in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, Mr A complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said AA had acted fairly in how it had settled 
the claim.
As AA didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 6 March 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy terms and conditions explained how AA would settle a claim. These said AA 
would choose whether to repair, replace or pay the cost of replacing an item. The wording 
also said:
- Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to 
pay a cash settlement, then payment will not exceed the discounted replacement price we 
would normally pay.
- Where we cannot repair or replace the item as new through our preferred suppliers we will 
pay the full replacement cost of the item with no discount applied.
AA offered Mr A a voucher for £549 or a cash settlement of £411.75. I currently think it 
unfairly applied its terms and conditions. Given the item was lost, repair wasnt an option. 
AAs jewellery service also confirmed it couldnt replace the item. All it could offer was to pay 
the cost of replacing the item. AA seemed to rely on the wording that explained when a 
payment wouldnt exceed the discounted replacement price. However, the policy wording 
said this applied when AA could offer repair or replacement, which it wasnt able to do. 
The wording said that where it couldnt repair or replace, it would pay the full replacement 
cost of the item with no discount applied. This didnt differentiate between whether it was 
paid as a voucher or as a cash settlement. So, I dont think it is fair for it to offer a lower cash 
settlement than it would offer as a voucher because that wouldnt be paying the full 
replacement cost with no discount applied. Although Im aware, its common where an 
insurer offers a voucher for it to offer a lower amount as a cash settlement because of 
discounts they can access, I dont think AAs terms and conditions allowed it to do this. AA 
was responsible for the policy wording and I dont think it can penalise Mr A if its policy 
wording wasnt written as it intended.
Ive also looked at the amount AA offered in settlement. AAs jewellery service valued the 
bracelet based on a photo of it. It said the settlement would allow Mr A to replace his 9ct 
gold curb bracelet on a like for like basis. I asked AA to provide evidence to show the 
amount Mr A was offered would allow this. AA didnt provide any evidence. 
Our investigator sent Mr A some links to online examples of bracelets sold by the retailer 
hed been given a voucher for. He commented on each bracelet. This was then passed to 
AA. I asked it to consider Mr As comments, including why some of the bracelets werent 
acceptable, which was because they were a different width or weight to his bracelet. I also 
explained to AA that its offer needed to put Mr A back in the position he was in before the 
claim, with a bracelet of comparable style and quality. I invited AA to show me why it thought 
its offer was reasonable. AA didnt reply.
Based on what Ive currently seen, Im not persuaded that the amount AA offered was fair. I 
havent seen evidence that shows me the amount offered would allow Mr A to buy a bracelet 
of a comparable style and quality. Im not an expert on valuing jewellery. So, Ive taken into 
account Mr As comments about the bracelets and the other evidence provided by both 
parties. Having done so, I currently intend to say AA must pay Mr A £1,200 to settle the 
claim. The amount is based on one of the bracelets both parties were sent as an example. 
AA must also pay interest on the settlement amount because Mr A lost the use of the 
money. Regardless of whether AA pays it as a voucher or a cash settlement, it must pay the 
full amount. However, it can deduct the excess if this is appropriate.
Ive also thought about compensation. I think Mr A has been caused distress and 
inconvenience by the way his claim was handled. He wasnt clear why AA offered him the 
amount that it did and, from what Ive seen, AA hasnt been able to show that amount was 
reasonable. I think this caused Mr A concern that his claim wasnt being fairly dealt with. So, 
I currently think AA should pay Mr A £100 compensation to recognise the impact on him.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 March 2023.
AA replied and said Mr A has provided no substantiation other than photos. The claim had 
been validated by a specialist company, who had confirmed it was a 9ct gold curb bracelet. It 
said the comments provided by Mr A therefore werent valid. It said Mr A could replace the 
bracelet for the equivalent amount of the voucher. Mr A had been offered the voucher, which 
Mr A declined. So, a cash alternative was provided. AA said if Mr A could provide any 
substantiation to validate the claim further, it would be happy to oblige.
Mr A said he had previously provided information on his complaint and the amount he had 
been offered by AA was only a fraction of the value of the bracelet.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered the comments from both parties.
Im aware that AA remains of the view that it provided an appropriate settlement. I invited AA 
to explain and provide evidence of why it thought what it had offered put Mr A in the position 
he was in before the claim, with a bracelet of comparable style and quality. Although AA 
replied to the provisional decision, Im not persuaded it has shown its offer was fair. 
I was aware the settlement was based on photos. I havent seen anything that showed me 
the company that did the valuation raised any concerns about whether it could validate the 
claim. I provided AA with examples of bracelets and Mr As comments on them to illustrate 
some of the issues. I remain of the view that AA hasnt shown that it was fair for it to settle 
the claim in the way it did. Having considered all of the evidence, I think AA should pay 
£1,200 to settle the claim and that, whether it pays it as cash or a voucher, it cant discount 
the amount, although it can take into account the excess.
Putting things right
AA should pay Mr A £1,200 to settle the claim and pay interest on that amount. It should also 
pay Mr A £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr A £1,200 to settle the claim.
Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Mr A first made the claim 
to the date on which it settles it.
Pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman