DRN-1955517
The complaint
Ms D complains Charter Court Financial Services Limited trading as Precise Mortgages, 
(Precise), didnt give her fair warning that her interest rate product was coming to an end in 
January 2020 or appropriate information and time to avoid making her mortgage payment in 
March 2020 when she was looking for an alternative lender. 
What happened
In around November 2015 Ms D took out a buy to let repayment mortgage for approximately 
£259,500 with Precise for a term of 25 years. She had an initial fixed interest rate period of 
two years, which changed to a variable rate of 4.41% above the London Inter Bank Offered 
Rate (LIBOR) for the remainder of the term (the reversion rate).
Precise invited Ms D to take out a new fixed interest product as part of an initiative it was 
running in September 2017 to retain customers. 
During a call between Ms D and a representative of Precise in December 2017 when they 
were discussing concerns Ms D had raised about other issues, Ms D told the representative 
she was dyslexic, and people needed to be patient with her and explain things very precisely 
and clearly. The representative suggested, and Ms D agreed, they would be Ms Ds point of 
contact at Precise going forward. 
Ms D switched her mortgage to interest only terms in around December 2017 and the new 
fixed interest rate product was put in place in around February 2018. The new rate was 
3.39% above LIBOR and was fixed until the end of January 2020. 
On 15 January 2020 Ms D rang Precise about another issue. On the call she found out her 
fixed interest rate was coming to an end at the end of the month. Precise told Ms D it was 
sending her a letter that day letting her know her monthly payments would be changing with 
effect from 1 February 2020. Precise said it didnt notify its customers specifically about 
interest rate products coming to an end, but the letter was being sent in line with its policy to 
give its customers ten working days notice of changes to their interest rates.
The 15 January 2020 letter said the fixed rate was coming to an end, the interest rate would 
go up and the monthly payment would increase from 1 February 2020.
Ms D was extremely unhappy with what Precise told her. She felt Precise hadnt treated her 
fairly and that she ought to have been given more notice the fixed rate was ending so she 
had time to make arrangements to re-finance her borrowing. Ms D said her contact at 
Precise, who she was speaking to on 15 January 2020, was responsible for monitoring her 
account and keeping in touch with her about changes. 
Ms D wanted Precise to freeze her payments at the rate she was paying under the fixed 
term product that was coming to an end, until shed managed to re-finance elsewhere. 
Precise told her it wouldnt do that.
On 3 February 2020 Precise replied to an email from Ms D in which she asked what the 
interest rate had changed to, whether there was anything Precise could do to help reduce 
the rate, how much her repayments then were and whether Precise could offer another deal. 
Precise let her know the increased interest rate she was then liable to pay and that her 
account was eligible for a new product deal, but shed need to apply for it through a broker.
  
Ms D didnt think the email was clear enough about whether or not Precise could offer fee-
free products or whether shed have to pay her broker a fee to arrange a new product for 
her. She called Precise on 12 February 2020 and told it this. Precise emailed Ms D again 
that day telling her it wouldnt charge a fee for a product switch. It said the only difference 
from when shed last got a new product with Precise was that shed need to go through her 
broker as Precise wasnt able to deal with her direct any more.
On 13 February 2020 Ms D gave Precise the written authority it had asked for so Precise 
could deal with Ms Ds broker direct. Precise confirmed it wouldnt charge Ms D a fee but 
said her broker might and shed need to discuss that with them.
Also, that day, Ms D mentioned in an email, which Precise received but felt was probably 
meant for her broker, that Precise had told her previously it couldnt give her a new product 
and she felt the 3 February 2020 email had been uninformative. She went on to explain 
shed been busy that day remembering the passing of a close relative the year before.
Ms D spoke to Precise again on 12 March 2020 when she says Precise suggested she 
cancel her direct debit to avoid payment being taken that month. She complains this was 
poor advice that could have led to her losing her home and would have affected her credit 
record. She was arranging refinancing of the mortgage and wanted to avoid making payment 
while she did so. Ms D later asked Precise for a payment deferral which it agreed to. She 
redeemed the mortgage in April 2020.
Ms D complained to Precise about the length of notice it had given her that the fixed rate 
was coming to an end and her request that her interest rate be frozen until she could 
refinance. 
In its response, Precise said it wasnt obliged to tell Ms D the fixed interest rate period was 
ending, and it gave enough notice, in line with its policy, that her monthly payments were 
changing. Precise said it was her responsibility to look for a new product when it came to an 
end.
Precise argues Ms D agreed, when she accepted the Variation of Mortgage Offer issued to 
her in October 2017 and took the initial fixed interest rate product, that her rate would 
change to 4.65% with effect from 1 February 2020.
Ms D didnt accept what Precise said and brought her complaint to this service. While we 
were looking at the complaint, Ms D raised additional concerns about how Precise had 
behaved when she asked for a payment deferral. Precise agreed to us looking into those 
issues as part of this complaint.
Ms Ds raised several arguments which Ill summarise:
Precise should have told her the fixed rate was coming to an end  she only found 
out when she rang for another reason. 
Ms Ds contact at Precise didnt look after her account as they should have done and 
should have told Ms D her the rate was coming to an end. Ms D would then have had 
enough time to get a new rate elsewhere before her deal with Precise ended.
The increase to the interest rate was excessive and she had to pay it for two months.Precise initially told her no new rates were available, but it provided them later. 
Precise didnt make it clear to her she wouldnt have to pay Precise a fee if she took 
one of its rates. 
When Ms D asked Precise not to take a payment in March 2020, she was told she 
had to give three days notice, so it was too late to prevent the payment going 
through. Ms D said she didnt know that and Precise should have told her previously. 
When Ms D spoke to Precise on 12 March 2020, the representative she spoke to 
suggested she should cancel her direct debit to avoid making the next payment since 
Precise couldnt stop the payment as she hadnt given enough notice. Ms D said that 
was poor advice which could have led to her losing her property and adversely 
affecting her credit file. She says Precise should have offered her a payment deferral. 
And she was unhappy with questions she was asked.
To resolve her complaint Ms D wanted compensation for the poor service shed received 
and repayment of the two months interest she had to pay at the reversion rate before she 
was able to refinance. 
Our investigator upheld Ms Ds complaint in part. She didnt think Precise had done anything 
wrong in the way it dealt with the ending of the fixed interest rate product. But she did think 
Precise could have communicated with Ms D better and felt it was fair for Precise to pay her 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience resulting from that in addition to the 
£100 compensation it had already offered her.
Ms D thought the compensation ought to have been much higher and asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I have reviewed everything afresh to come to a 
final decision about Ms Ds complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I may not mention here everything the parties have said, I have taken it all into 
account in coming to my decision, including additional points Ms D made in response to our 
investigators view. 
Ms Ds told us she finds it easier to understand things when she discusses them over the 
phone, rather than in writing, because of her dyslexia. Ms D told Precise she had dyslexia on 
a call in December 2017, when she was speaking to it on the phone about changing the 
basis of her mortgage and taking out a fixed term interest rate product. Precise says Ms D 
told it she didnt need it to make any adjustments because of her dyslexia. What Ms D said 
on the December 2017 call was that she needed people to be patient with her and to be very 
precise and clear. 
Precise agreed with Ms D then that the representative she was speaking to would be her 
point of contact to make things easier for Ms D. Given what Ms D has told us and what she 
told Precise on the December 2017 call, I think this was a reasonable adjustment for Precise 
to make. 
Not all the conversations took place between Ms D and her point of contact. But from 
Precises records and the calls Ive listened to, including those with her point of contact, I can 
see that, unfortunately, calls resulted in Ms D becoming angry and upset. And because of 
that it was difficult for the Precise staff who were speaking to her to explain things. I can understand how misunderstandings about what Ms D was being told might have arisen. 
Overall, I dont think that Precise was at fault for that.
Notice that the fixed interest rate was coming to an end in February 2020
From what Ive seen, I think Ms D understood how her mortgage worked and was actively 
managing it. She originally took out a repayment mortgage in November 2015. She asked 
Landmark in October 2016 about porting her existing mortgage rate. In early 2017 she asked 
about what would happen when that rate came to an end in November 2017. Landmark 
explained to Ms D then it could let her know about new rates that might be available around 
two or three months before the existing rate was due to end. And Ms D spoke to Precise in 
around October 2017 about getting a new rate. 
Precise sent Ms D an offer to vary her mortgage by carrying out a rate switch in October 
2017. The basis of Ms Ds mortgage changed from repayment to interest only before she 
accepted the rate switch. There was a delay to new rate being put in place while this was 
arranged. Precise wrote to Ms D confirming the change in rate to 3.39% based on an 
interest only repayment type in February 2018.
Ms D complains Precise didnt give her fair warning that the fixed term interest rate product 
she took out in February 2018 was coming to an end in January 2020. As Ill explain, I dont 
think Precise treated Ms D unfairly in relation to that.
The October 2017 offer to vary the mortgage set out in terms that I think were clear, fair and 
not misleading as they should be, that the rate would be fixed until 31 January 2020 after 
which the reversion rate Ive mentioned would come into effect. And, as Ive also said, Ms D 
had discussed with Landmark previously  in 2017  what happened when a fixed rate was 
coming to an end. It had told her new rates would be available two or three months before 
the existing rate came to an end that November. And Ms D had asked about a new rate in 
October 2017. So, I think she was aware of the process.
Ms Ds explained she rang Precise while she was away from home in January 2020. Ms D 
says shed taken time to go away to reflect on the loss of a close family member the year 
before. She wanted some information about how much interest shed paid on her mortgage 
over the year for the purposes of her year-end tax accounting. She says the first she knew 
about the interest rate coming to an end was when she contacted Precise at this time. 
Precises records show this conversation took place on 15 January 2020 although Ms Ds 
recollection is that it was slightly later. I think the records are right as Precise told Ms D on 
the call that they were sending her a letter that day letting her know about the rate change  
and the letter is dated 15 January 2020. On that basis, Precise told Ms D on 15 January 
2020 her fixed term interest rate product was coming to an end that month. 
Precise argues it wasnt obliged to tell Ms D the fixed interest rate period was ending, and it 
gave enough notice, in line with its policy, her monthly payments were changing. Precise 
says it was Mrs Ds responsibility to look for a new product when it came to an end. 
Precise sent the 15 January 2020 letter in line with the timescales set out in the mortgage 
conditions. Ms D says she didnt get the letter at the time because she was away from home. 
But I dont think it made any difference Ms D wasnt at home to get the letter. She already 
knew what the position was from the telephone conversation shed had with Precise on that 
day.
I am sorry to hear Ms D was dealing with some difficult personal circumstances around the 
time her fixed interest rate was coming to an end.  Although I can see Precise was aware of a family illness at around the time Ms D was discussing taking the fixed rate product in 
2017/2018, theres no evidence Precise knew about her difficult personal circumstances in 
early 2020. So, I dont think it could have adjusted the way it dealt with Ms D to take account 
of her circumstances at the time. 
Ms D says her point of contact at Precise had agreed to monitor her account and should 
have let her know about the product ending. I dont agree thats what the Precise 
representative agreed to do  they agreed to be a point of contact for Ms D, not the manager 
of her account. I think it was Ms Ds responsibility to do that.
I think Ms D was capable of managing her mortgage as Ive explained. Precise gave notice 
of the change in interest rate in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. There was no 
obligation on Precise to alert Ms D that the rate was coming to an end. I think it was 
reasonable for Precise to expect Ms D to have monitored when her fixed rate was ending 
and to have taken steps in time to take another product with Precise or refinance with 
another lender before she went on to the reversion rate. 
Bearing everything in mind, I dont think Precise treated Ms D unfairly in not letting her know 
sooner her fixed interest rate was coming to an end.
Availability of a new fixed interest rate product and payment of fees
Ms D says Precise told her there were no rates available for her. Its correct she was initially 
told this on 15 January 2020 and only towards the end of a call did Precise say she should 
contact her broker to discuss things. In fact, Precise was able to offer a new product, though 
only through a broker. I think Precise should have told Ms D this sooner than it did - either by 
calling her back or letting her know when it wrote to her at the end of January in response to 
her complaint about the length of notice she was given her rate was coming to an end.
Ms D says the email Precise sent her on 3 February 2020, in which Precise said it could 
offer her a rate, but shed need to apply for it through a broker, was unclear that the rate 
would be fee-free. 
She says she didnt see the email then anyway as it was the first anniversary of the passing 
of a close family member and she was really upset during this time. And rather than being 
able to spend time with other family, shed had to work due to the increase in her mortgage 
payments. 
Ms Ds explained that because of her dyslexia it wasnt until she contacted Precise around a 
week later that it became clear to her that she could get a rate through a broker and Precise 
wouldnt charge a fee. 
I appreciate Ms Ds delay in asking Precise to clarify things was due to her personal 
circumstances at the time. But I think the 3 February email was clear in letting Ms D know 
she could get a product with Precise through a broker. She hadnt asked Precise whether or 
not it would charge a fee so I dont think Precise made a mistake by not saying if it would or 
not. I wouldnt have expected Precise to know if her broker would charge her a fee, so I dont 
think Precise was wrong not to mention that either. 
Precise did confirm, once it had authorisation to contact Ms Ds broker direct, that it would 
contact the broker and that it wouldnt charge a fee, but shed need to ask the broker about 
any fees they might charge.  In summary, although I think Precise should have told Ms D sooner it could offer her a new 
rate, I think it treated her fairly otherwise in explaining how she could access a rate and 
whether or not fees would be payable. 
Delaying and deferring payments while Ms D arranged to refinance
On 12 March 2020 Ms D emailed Precise asking it not to take that months mortgage 
payment. Precise told her shed need to give three days notice to prevent a direct debit 
payment going through. Ms D was unhappy Precise hadnt told her this before. I wouldnt 
expect Precise to have anticipated Ms D was going to ask about avoiding the direct debit 
payment and it seems reasonable that notice would need to be given to prevent a payment 
going through. I dont think Precise treated Mr D unfairly in not telling her this beforehand.
When Ms D spoke to a Precise adviser on the phone, he suggested she could cancel her 
direct debit to avoid making the payment. Ms D complains this was poor advice and would 
have impacted her credit file. She thinks Precise should have offered her a payment deferral 
then.
Ive listened to the call. I think the Precise adviser was trying to help Ms D rather than put her 
in a difficult position. The only way to avoid the March payment being taken would have 
been for the direct debit to be cancelled given Ms Ds late request. Unfortunately, Ms D 
became quite distressed during the call, so it became difficult for the adviser to explain 
things. The adviser was asking Ms D about her circumstances to see what could be done to 
help her. I think this was reasonable and the adviser was treating Ms D fairly here. 
Precise did agree to a payment deferral for April and May 2020 to assist Ms D while she 
refinanced her mortgage which, again, I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
  
Putting things right
Precise acknowledged in its response to Ms Ds complaint that there were some areas 
where it could have provided better customer service to Ms D and offered her £100 
compensation. Our investigator felt Precise should pay Ms D an additional £100 to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
I dont think any action or inaction on the part of Precise led to Ms D having to pay interest at 
the higher rate while she refinanced her mortgage. But, taking into account the poor service 
Ms D received when she first asked Precise about getting a new rate in January 2020 and 
the impact that had on her given the difficult personal circumstances she was going through 
at the time, I think it is fair for Precise to pay Ms D a total of £200 by way of compensation. 
  
My final decision
I direct Charter Court Financial Services Limited to pay Ms D a total of £200, inclusive of any 
compensation it has already paid to Ms D, within 28 days of this decision should Ms D 
choose to accept it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman