DRN-2216092
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with MotoNovo
Finance Limited (MotoNovo) has not been of satisfactory quality.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. I explained that I 
wasnt expecting to uphold it. An extract from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr K took receipt of a used car in October 2018. He financed the deal through a hire
purchase agreement with MotoNovo. He had problems with the car from the outset and
within the first couple of weeks, when Mr K complained a restricted performance light was
illuminated, the business replaced an inlet manifold and coolant sensor. They also sealed
the injectors and replaced the relevant gaskets.
Mr K says the problems resurfaced in May 2019 when the restricted performance light
reappeared. He complained to MotoNovo and he provided a report from an independent
engineer who said that it was his opinion the restrictive performance issues had continued
despite the repairs, and that the fault was present when the vehicle was supplied to Mr K. He
also noted that the car had been fitted with new handbrake shoes and he thought, given the
extent of the wear, that these were likely to have been at the end of their useful life when the
car was supplied to Mr K.
MotoNovo didnt think the engineer had provided sufficient diagnosis of the problems so they
arranged a further independent inspection. That inspector said it wasnt unusual for a car
that had covered well over 80,000 miles to experience such problems and he didnt think
there was evidence the faults could be considered to be present at the point of supply; when
MotoNovo were responsible for the quality of the car.
So, Mr K referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided an opinion. She
didnt think the car had proven to be suitably durable. She noted that a diagnostic carried out
in July 2019 had identified low turbo pressure and had suggested that further investigations
were carried out. She thought there was evidence the car had had several faults since it was
supplied, and she thought it would be fair for MotoNovo to now allow Mr K to reject the
vehicle.
MotoNovo didnt agree with the investigators view. They didnt think there was evidence that
the current fault was present at the point of supply and they therefore didnt think they
needed to take any further action. They asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion and Im not expecting to uphold this
complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr K. The car here
was around six years old and had already completed about 82,000 miles. I think a
reasonable person would expect some wear and tear on a vehicle of this age and mileage
and I note the second inspector thought the issues with the handbrake and the restrictive
performance were examples of that.
I can see the car passed its MOT shortly before Mr K took receipt of it and I therefore think
there is evidence the handbrake was in an acceptable condition when supplied.
I dont think theres any disagreement that the restrictive performance issues Mr K initially
complained about in November 2018 were the result of a fault with the car that was present
when it was supplied to him. There was clearly damage to the manifold that was creating an
air leak. The relevant legislation allows MotoNovo to repair an issue present at the point of
supply. I think they were given that opportunity and I can see that Mr K appears to have
been able to drive the car unhindered for several months.
Mr K reported the subsequent restrictive performance issue to MotoNovo after hed had the
car for more than six months. In those circumstances the relevant legislation expects the
consumer to demonstrate there is a fault and that it was present when the car was supplied.
The restricted performance issue Mr K reported in 2019 appears to have been generating
the same warning light as the fault in November 2018. But, I am not currently persuaded
there is evidence this new issue was the result of a failure of the November 2018 repair, or
that there is evidence the cause of that restricted performance was present, or developing,
at the point the vehicle was supplied to Mr K.
The first inspector has accepted Mr Ks assertion that the faults are linked, and the second
inspector has not considered it as he seems to suggest these faults are to be expected on a
car of this age and mileage.
The dealership Mr K took the car to in July 2019 suggested there was low turbo pressure
and that further testing was required. In the absence of this testing I dont think it is possible
to link the subsequent restrictive performance fault with the initial one and I dont think
theres sufficient evidence to suggest the latter fault was present or developing at the point
the car was supplied to Mr K.
The relevant legislation does also tell us to consider whether a car has been suitablydurable. I dont think theres currently sufficient evidence that this car hasnt been suitably
durable. I can see that it had a fault with the manifold. But on the evidence currently
available to me I dont think the other faults that have been identified with turbo loss; a worn
handbrake lining and a timing belt replacement, are excessive on a car of this age and
mileage and I can see that view is supported by the most recent independent inspection.
My provisional decision
Overall, Im not currently persuaded there is sufficient evidence that MotoNovo need to take
any further action and Im not expecting to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
MotoNovo didnt provide any further evidence but Mr K did. 
He explained that he first asked to cancel the agreement on 3 November 2018, only a few 
days after hed collected the car. 
He said the inspection arranged by MotoNovo hadnt been thorough and could not be relied 
upon as the inspector was working for MotoNovo.
He added that he hadnt been able to afford the further testing that had been identified by 
the independent inspector and he said Id not paid enough attention to the faults hed 
experienced from the beginning.
He noted that the car had passed a MOT just prior to him taking receipt of it but he said this 
MOT had been completed by the selling dealership and wasnt accurate.
He also said that a garage had told him both manifolds should have been replaced at the 
same time and he suggested that, as they hadnt been, this was the likely cause of the 
subsequent failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr K has said but Im afraid it doesnt change my opinion. 
Whilst Mr K says he told MotoNovo he wanted to reject the car only a few days after he took 
receipt of it, I dont think I have any corroborating evidence of that. I note its not in 
MotoNovos system notes and I think, even if it could be shown that Mr K did ask to reject 
the car, it seems he then accepted a repair as a resolution.
The inspection organised by MotoNovo was conducted by an independent expert. I dont 
agree that the inspection wasnt thorough. Photographs were attached of the affected 
components and the inspector appears to have considered all the issues that hed been 
asked to. Im satisfied that the inspector didnt work for MotoNovo as the company is one I 
frequently see completing inspections for a number of consumers and businesses. They are 
a recognised source of independent automotive expertise.
Whilst I understand Mr Ks concerns about the MOT I dont think it would be fair for me to 
suggest there was anything wrong with it. Ive seen no evidence that was the case.
Ive not seen any corroborating evidence that both manifolds needed replacing either and I 
would think the independent engineers would have commented on that if that was a likely 
cause of the failure.So, overall, Ive not been provided with sufficient information to change my provisional view 
on this matter and my provisional decision remains unaltered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman