DRN-2742373
The complaint
Miss D complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
 
What happened
Miss D was approved for one loan of £750, after applying for £1,000, in June 2019. Miss D 
was due to repay it over nine instalments of around £153 each. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and did not think that Dot Dot Loans had 
done anything wrong. Miss D disagreed and sent to us bank account statements and 
screenshots of her credit file for the period leading up to June 2019 to show she was in a 
poor financial state and the loan ought never to have been approved. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make suRe 
Miss D could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Dot Dot Loans 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Dot Dot Loans was required to establish whether Miss D could sustainably repay her loan  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that. I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information 
provided in this context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
Miss D gave Dot Dot Loans information when she applied which was that her MONTHLY 
income was £1,375, her outgoings were around £715 and so her declared disposable 
income was £660. Dot Dot Loans did carry out a credit search and it has sent to us what it 
saw before approving the loan and there was nothing there to give it cause for concern. It 
knew that Miss D had £1,481 to repay over several accounts (which could have been any 
kind, not necessary loan accounts). It was aware that she had one other short term loan with 
a £100 value (that may have excluded the interest or may have been the latest balance on 
it). No defaults were registered. No insolvency issues were recorded. 
I have explained earlier in the decision that lenders were expected to carry out proportionate 
checks. For a £750 loan as a new customer with the declared income and expenditure 
figures it had from Miss D, I consider the checks Dot Dot Loans carried out were 
proportionate. It would have been disproportionate for it to have asked to see, or be 
expected to review, Miss Ds bank statements for a first loan in these circumstances. 
I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman