DRN-3701282
The complaint
Ms C, Ms M and Mr M complain that The New India Assurance Company Limited (NIA) 
hasnt accepted their claim for subsidence which occurred when they were on cover with it.
While the complaint has been brought by three beneficiaries of the policy, as Mr M has been 
the main point of contact, and for ease of reading, I will refer to him throughout. 
What happened
Ms C is the freeholder of a block of flats and leaseholder of one of the flats. Mr and Mrs M 
are the leaseholders of another flat. The whole building is covered by an insurance policy for 
which they are all listed as beneficiaries. Between April 2015 and April 2021 the policy was 
provided by NIA. After this date, the policy was moved to a different insurer that I will refer to 
as A. 
In October 2021 Mr M made a claim on his insurance with A after tenants at the property 
noticed cracks in the walls. A inspected the damage and concluded that it had developed 
before the policy with it had began. It therefore contacted NIA as the previous insurer for the 
building. 
Over the months that followed there was a dispute between the two insurers and the broker 
about who was responsible for the claim. It was eventually agreed that monitoring should be 
undertaken to determine if the subsidence was still ongoing or if the property was stable.
During this time Mr M made a complaint to NIA, as well as separate complaints to A and his 
broker. He was unhappy with how long it had taken them to decide who was responsible for 
the claim, which had meant no progress had been made to repair the building. NIA didnt 
uphold his complaint so he brought it to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint against NIA be 
upheld. She said that the damage clearly pre-dated the policy inception with A and had 
happened during the time they were on cover with NIA. So she said it should accept the 
claim and could claim back any costs for damage during As policy with it directly. 
Mr M accepted our investigators outcome. However NIA didnt. It said that her position 
departed from this services usual approach for complaints of this nature. And said that while 
this claim wasnt bound by the rules of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) domestic 
subsidence agreement, the principles would still apply, and therefore it thought A should 
accept the claim. It asked for the matter to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a claim is for damage that has happened over a period of time, and across different 
policy periods provided by different insurers, its usual that one insurer will take ownership of 
the claim. It may then claim any costs back from other insurers for damage that occurred 
during their policy cover periods.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) created a domestic subsidence agreement to help 
determine which insurer should be responsible for a claim such as this. However this only 
applies to domestic insurance policies, as this claim relates to a landlord insurance policy the 
agreement wouldnt apply. Its also of note that neither NIA or A are signed up to the 
agreement. 
However, this service still takes the agreement into account when considering cases like 
this, as it outlines best practice. If I were to apply the agreement to this case I agree with NIA 
that I would conclude that A should accept the claim. This is because the claim was made 
more than eight weeks after the policy inception and the agreement says that when this is 
the case, the current insurer should deal with the claim primarily.
However in this case, I dont think its fair to apply these principals. Ive looked at the 
evidence provided by Mr M and I can see that the tenant first made him aware of the cracks 
in September 2020. However at this time he was unable to attend the property due to Covid-
19 restrictions, which explains why the claim wasnt made until much later. However, as the 
issue was notified in September 2020 Im persuaded that the damage happened almost 
entirely during the cover with NIA. As its likely the cracks would have developed over a 
period of time before they were noticed by the tenant, and the policy was in place from 2015 
until 2021. 
So while the damage has continued into the policy term with A, I think its fair and 
reasonable that NIA take ownership of the claim. Because the bulk of the claim cost is likely 
to sit with it. If NIA incurs any costs for damage that developed under the policy term with A, 
then it can seek to claim these costs back with A directly. But this shouldnt impact Mr M or 
the progression of the claim. 
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms C, Ms M and Mr Ms complaint and direct NIA to 
accept the claim and settle it in line with the policy terms and conditions that was in place 
when they were on cover with it.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C, Ms M and 
Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman