DRN-3388474
The complaint
Miss C complains Lloyds Bank PLC made an error when giving her mortgage advice, leaving 
her approximately £100,000 short of the amount she needed to complete on her property 
sale and purchase. She says that resulted in additional costs, distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Miss C says shes had a long positive relationship with Lloyds and has relied on one of its 
mortgage advisers several times in the past. She is partially deaf and visually impaired 
following cancer treatment, which is known to Lloyds.
In February 2020, Miss C visited the mortgage advisor in her local branch to discuss moving 
home. She says she told the mortgage adviser the selling price of her property and the 
purchase price of the one she wanted to buy. She shared the details of her savings and the 
adviser calculated how much shed need to borrow to complete the purchase, saying Miss C 
would not have to touch her savings. That was important to Miss C as her savings offered 
some security to her, given her health concerns.
Miss C says she was given a provisional date for completion in June 2020 and tried to 
contact the adviser to update her. Due to the Covid pandemic, Lloyds branches were closed 
and Miss C was shielding, so she couldnt visit the branch. She tried the advisers mobile 
number repeatedly and only received her standard voicemail response and nothing about 
the advisor not being at work. From 3 June 2020 Miss C sent emails to the adviser but didnt 
receive an out of office message in response. On 25 June 2020 she made contact with a 
second mortgage adviser who proceeded to help her. He checked the application and 
confirmed everything was in place for completion. But she then received a call from the first 
adviser confirming all was okay, but shed been off work due to illness.
On 29 June 2020  with four days left to completion  Miss C met with her solicitor who 
asked for evidence of the additional £100,000 needed for completion. Miss C says that was 
the first time she was aware of the error. She contacted the second adviser there and then 
and he worked the next day on calculating whether Lloyds would lend Miss C the full amount 
needed. Miss C contacted the other six parties in the chain to tell them what was happening, 
causing them to be angry and upset, some threatening to pull out of the transaction.
Lloyds was able to increase the amount it would lend Miss C. But, to do so Miss C says she  
had to use £15,000 of her savings, lose the fixed rate shed paid for and pay an additional 
fee for another one. She says there was also a cash incentive of £200 on her original deal 
that she lost as a result of the change. And Miss Cs contractual monthly mortgage payment 
went up by £350 to £400.
Miss C says Lloyds was unable to email a copy of her new mortgage offer to her solicitor so 
she had to visit a branch to get one and deliver it. However, when she did, her solicitor told 
her the party at the top of the chain had pulled out. She managed to persuade her buyers to 
continue as well as the party she was buying from. But completion was delayed for 
approximately one month, the party she bought from had to find rented accommodation and 
Miss C had to unpack her house contents and pay two removals fees.
Miss C complained and Lloyds wrote to her with its final response on 16 July 2020  before 
the eventual date of completion. It said a mortgage advisers role is to recommend a 
mortgage product, term and repayment type. They should not advise customers on the 
amount they need to borrow. But it acknowledged Miss C asked for help with the calculation 
and the adviser made an error. Lloyds says Miss Cs solicitor should have checked the 
amount required and that Miss C had access to the balance required. The solicitor had from 
6 March 2020 to do this but didnt do so until 29 June 2020 with completion scheduled for 3 
July 2020.
Lloyds said its adviser had to obtain additional income verification because of the additional 
borrowing required and the new mortgage amount was agreed on 1 July 2020. But the legal 
documentation required by solicitors is produced overnight and Lloyds has no workaround 
so that could not be sent until 2 July 2020.
With regard to the additional costs outlined by Miss C, Lloyds said her contractual monthly 
payment is what it would have been had the borrowing amount been calculated correctly 
from the beginning. It said the product fee and the interest rate applicable are the same  
only the end date of the fixed rate has changed. It said it was prepared to lend Miss C more 
based on her income so contributing £15,000 from her savings was her choice. But it did 
make a payment to her to cover one of the two removals fees she incurred and paid her 
£500 in acknowledgement of the distress and inconvenience caused by the calculation error.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds response, Miss C asked us to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator thought that Lloyds should pay Miss C an amount in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused her, he thought the £500 already paid was fair. And he 
thought the solicitors failure to check what Miss C required until the week of completion was 
partly the cause of the failure to complete as scheduled. He also thought it was reasonable 
that Lloyds pay for one of the removal fees Miss C incurred. As Lloyds has paid both those 
amounts to Miss C, he said it need take no further action.
Miss C didnt agree. She said our investigator didnt address the poor communication from 
Lloyds since the offer letter was sent in March 2020 or the devastating time she had after 
discovery of the shortfall. Or that the Lloyds advisers twice told her that everything was in 
place before discovery of the error. She said she didnt choose to delay meeting her solicitor 
 that was the first time she was available following the Covid pandemic lockdown. And her 
solicitor wanted to meet face to face with her to go through the paperwork together because 
of Miss Cs disabilities. Miss C says, before that, Lloyds hadnt communicated with her in 
large print despite knowing of her disability.
Our investigator discussed the matter on the phone with Miss C and then thought again 
about whether he thought a higher payment was appropriate in relation to the distress and 
inconvenience caused. But he didnt decide Lloyd should increase its offer, so Miss C has 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision on 6 May 2022 giving four weeks to 
respond. Lloyds responded accepting my decision. Miss C didnt accept my decision and 
asked for an extension to the deadline given. I extended the deadline to 20 June 2022, but 
have not received Miss Cs full response to my provisional decision, having now waited an 
additional week.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.To decide Miss Cs complaint, Ive thought about whether Lloyds was the cause of 
the failure of Miss Cs chain to complete on time. And Ive thought about the financial 
impact that had on her and the impact on her in terms of distress and inconvenience.
The mortgage offer letter provided by Lloyds to Miss C on 6 March 2020 clearly 
states that the mortgage outlined in it was recommended by Lloyds, having assessed 
Miss Cs needs and circumstances. But, in its final response letter dated 16 July 
2020 Lloyds said the mortgage advisers role is to recommend a mortgage product, 
term and repayment type, not advise the customer how much they need to borrow. I 
dont agree with that. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) confirms what 
constitutes advice in PERG 4.6.3G  that says:
For advice to fall within article 53A as set out in PERG 4.6.1 G it must:
1. relate to a particular mortgage contract (that is, one that the borrower may 
enter into or, in the case of advice on a variation, one that he has already 
entered into);
2. be given to a person in his capacity as a borrower or potential borrower;
3. be advice (that is, not just information); and
4. relate to the merits of the borrower entering into, or varying the terms of, 
the contract.
The amount of the mortgage is one of the things that makes it a particular mortgage 
contract as opposed to generic information, and is relevant to the merits of entering 
into it.
MCOB 4.7A.5R says:
1. A regulated mortgage contract will not be suitable for a customer unless 
the regulated mortgage contract is appropriate to the needs and 
circumstances of the customer.
So, if the recommendation is for the incorrect amount  particularly in this case where 
the error doesnt appear to have happened as a result of a subsequent change of 
circumstances  it isnt appropriate for the customers needs. That means I dont 
think Lloyds advice to Miss C  as outlined in its mortgage offer dated 6 March 2020 
 was suitable for Miss C.
Lloyds has also said it would have expected Miss Cs solicitor to have reviewed the 
application between March and June 2020 to ensure Miss C had the funds required 
to make up any shortfall in the equity and mortgage amounts. So, it said, Miss C and 
her solicitor should also accept some liability for this issue. 
I am minded to make allowances for the restrictions placed on all businesses  
solicitors and lenders alike  by the Covid pandemic. Miss C says 29 June was the 
first opportunity  because of the restrictions of the pandemic  that her and her 
solicitor had an opportunity to go through the application together. And, she says, her 
solicitor thought it was important that they did that together because of Miss Cs 
hearing and sight impairments. In the circumstances, I do accept that may have been the first opportunity they had for a face to face meeting. But I dont think that would 
have prevented Miss Cs solicitor assessing the details of the application some time 
in advance of that meeting. And, I think, had they done so, it may have been prudent 
to contact Miss C before their meeting to raise a concern, or ask questions about the 
shortfall and where it would come from.
So, I agree that there should have been opportunities to address the issue earlier 
than Miss C and her solicitor did. However, that doesnt change my opinion that the 
cause of the error was an unsuitable recommendation from Lloyds.
Miss C says, as a result of Lloyds incorrect recommendation, her interest rate and 
application fee increased. She also says she missed out on £200 cashback incentive. 
To assess whether she has suffered those losses Ive compared copies of her 
mortgage offer letters from March 2020 and July 2020. Ive also considered Lloyds 
interest rates that were available at the time each offer was made.
Miss C borrowed £315,000 to complete the purchase of her new property, but her 
mortgage offer from March 2020 was based on £230,000. The mortgage rate deals 
that Lloyds offered dont appear to have changed between the dates of the 
respective mortgage offers, aside from the end dates of the fixed rate periods. But 
the amount Miss C actually needed to borrow took her over Lloyds 60% loan to 
value threshold, meaning she didnt qualify for the rate deal illustrated in the March 
2020 mortgage offer. So, both the interest rate she qualified for and the fee she had 
to pay increased. Both offers say she qualified for £200 cashback.
Ive thought about whether the increases in cost to Miss C were the result of Lloyds 
error. The mortgage offer provided by Lloyds in March 2020 was incorrect. The 
mortgage rate deal that applied in March 2020, given the amount Miss C actually 
needed to borrow, was the same as the one outlined in the offer of July 2020. So, the 
interest rate and the fee she actually paid would have been applicable in March 
2020, had Lloyds not made the error. That means I dont think Miss C has suffered a 
loss in that regard.
Miss C has also complained that her contractual monthly payment has increased by 
approximately £400. I appreciate that is something that, under the circumstances, 
she wasnt able to budget for. But, again, that is the correct monthly payment based 
on her requirements to purchase the property she did. Miss C did know about the 
increased costs before she actually completed and chose to proceed. That said, I do 
think she has suffered a loss of expectation with regard to her monthly costs because 
of Lloyds unsuitable recommendation. So that is something Ill factor into my 
consideration around the amount I think Lloyds should pay to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss C also says that Lloyds error caused her to use £15,000 of her savings that she 
wouldnt otherwise have used. But, in its final response letter dated 16 July 2020, 
Lloyds said the maximum mortgage available to Miss C was £345,000, meaning Miss 
C wouldnt have to use her savings. I dont know if that was communicated to Miss C 
before the July mortgage offer was provided, but the final response letter is dated 
before completion. So, I think Miss C proceeded in the knowledge that she didnt 
necessarily have to use £15,000 of her savings. And, because the amount required 
to purchase the property remained constant  only Lloyds calculation of the amount 
required on the mortgage changed  I dont think Lloyds error caused Miss C to use 
her savings.I then went on to outline how I think Lloyds should put things right. Ive reiterated that in the 
putting things right section below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision, but Miss C still hasnt fully responded. I know she 
wanted to respond and that she doesnt agree with the outcome. But I have given her time in 
addition to the extended deadline we agreed and I think it is now time to bring the complaint 
to a close. So, Ive considered my decision again as well as all of Miss Cs previous 
submissions. Having done so Im satisfied that its unlikely there is anything new Miss C can 
say at this stage that will significantly change the outcome of her complaint or the way I think 
Lloyds should put matters right. That means my final decision is the same as my provisional 
decision outlined above, for the same reasons given.
Putting things right
As Ive said above, while I think Miss Cs solicitor had the opportunity to address the 
£100,000 shortfall before it did, I think Lloyds unsuitable recommendation was the cause of 
the issue. 
Miss C says she had the stress of packing and unpacking the contents of her home, 
arranging an extension with each of her utility providers, rebooking removals at the last 
minute and the resentment of each person in her chain to deal with. She also had the burden 
of knowing she was having a negative impact on each of their lives and, from what shes told 
us, I think that weighed heavily on her. She also says she tried to contact her adviser earlier 
in June for reassurance that all was okay and received no reply. Eventually she received 
reassurance from a second adviser when, in fact, all was not okay.
Miss C, by most definitions, is a vulnerable consumer and Lloyds knew that. I think the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered was greater because of her vulnerability. And I 
think that could have been avoided, had Lloyds taken more care when she initially asked it 
for help and had it communicated the absence of its adviser to her.
Lloyds has paid Miss C £1,500 to cover one removals fee. And its paid her £500 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. In addition to that, I think it should pay her:
£250 in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused;
£200 in respect of the cashback confirmed in her mortgage offer letter (if it hasnt 
done so already). If it hasnt already paid that to her, it should add 8% simple 
interest* from the date it would ordinarily have been due.
* Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Lloyds Bank PLC considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss C 
how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Cs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman