DRN-3544163
The complaint
Mr B complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc have refused to transfer his savings account 
closing balance to another savings account or send him a cheque. 
What happened
In April 2007, Mr B opened an Instant Access savings account with Sainsburys online. 
In March 2022, Mr B asked to close his account down, and asked Sainsburys to transfer the 
remaining balance to another savings account held with another bank. 
Sainsburys replied and explained that as per the terms of the account, they could only 
transfer the closing balance to a UK current account held in Mr Bs name. They explained 
that Mr B had accepted the terms when opening the account, and therefore they wouldnt be 
able to transfer his closing balance to his other savings account or issue him with a cheque. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought his complaint to our service. He felt that Sainsburys were 
being unreasonable by refusing to close his account and transfer the balance to his other 
savings account. He also didnt remember ever linking a current account to the savings 
account when he opened it in 2007. Due to Sainsburys actions, Mr B felt forced into keeping 
an account that he wished to close, open. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Sainsburys hadnt done anything wrong. He 
explained to Mr B that the terms of the account are clear in that closing balances can only be 
sent to current accounts. He explained that Sainsburys would need to hold a payment 
mandate for a current account, and as they didnt hold this for Mr B, they couldnt transfer his 
closing balance. He also explained that as we are not the regulator, we wouldnt be able to 
ask Sainsburys to alter its processes or procedures. 
Mr B was unhappy with the investigators view. He replied and provided evidence of his 
Mothers closing statement which, at the bottom stated closing balance by cheque. This 
suggested to Mr B that Sainsburys were in fact able to send cheques. 
Our investigator asked Sainsburys about this, and they replied and said they used to offer 
closing balances by cheque, but it isnt something they currently offer. They said the word 
cheque had not been removed from the statement template, and so was appearing there in 
error. 
Our investigator explained this to Mr B, however Mr B remained unhappy. Because of this, 
the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After considering everything, I agree with the investigator for the same reasons. I will explain 
why. 
The current terms of Mr Bs account explain the following: 
How to withdraw money
When you make a withdrawal request, you must tell us which account you want us to 
transfer the funds to. We will only transfer the funds to a current account held in your name 
with a bank or building society in the UK. Before we do so, we may need to complete 
validation checks to confirm that you are a named person on the account receiving your 
funds. If the validation check fails we may require further documentation from you prior to 
making the payment. Before you can withdraw money the payment must be authorised by 
you. You can do this by providing your security details when you use our Online
Banking or Telephone Service. 
I appreciate these may not have been the exact terms that were accepted by Mr B when he 
took out the account, so we asked Sainsburys whether they could provide the terms from 
2007. The earliest terms they were able to provide were from 2011, and these stated: 
You can withdraw money from your account by authorising a card transaction or by 
transferring it to your nominated account, you do not need to give advance notice before you 
make withdrawals. 
Section 2.14 said:
You must hold a nominated account with a bank or building society which is part of the UK 
clearing system.
 
Section 17.1 then explained:
We can change these conditions, any charges for the normal running of your account and 
the interest rates applicable to your account, for the reasons set out in this condition 17 if we 
give you at least two months prior notice of the change. The notice will be given in 
accordance with condition 18. Where we give you notice of a change under this condition 17, 
the change will automatically take effect after two months and you will be taken to have 
accepted the change unless you phone us on 0500 40 50 60 and tell us that you do not 
agree to the change. You need to do this as soon as possible and in any event by the end of 
the two-month period. If you do not agree to the change, you can close your account.
The terms and conditions were last updated in 2018 and these say:
How do I withdraw money?
You can only send money to a current account in your name, you cant make payment to a 
third party. 
When you first set up a new payment mandate a check is done in the background to make 
sure the account is in your name. If we cant confirm this, youll get a message telling you 
our validation check has failed, if this happens please try an alternative current account in 
your name. If you still want the payment to go to the account thats failed then youll need to 
send us an original statement for that account along with what youd like the payment 
reference to be. Once we have the information, well set up your payment mandate and 
youll be able to make a payment within 2 working days. 
To prevent any delays in getting money transferred to you when you need it in the future we 
suggest that you set up a payment mandate when you open the account. Sainsburys explained that they wrote out to all customers in 2018 with a Notice of Variation, 
giving them details of how their terms were changing and how it impacted them. I asked 
Sainsburys to provide evidence to show this mailing was definitely sent to Mr B. They 
explained that their mail is sent as standard post meaning they do not record evidence of 
postage, however the Notice of Variation was sent to all customers who held accounts that 
the changes were due to take place on, meaning theyre satisfied it was sent. 
As Mr Bs account was still open at this time, I am satisfied that its most likely he would have 
been included in the mailing. 
So while I dont have the terms from 2007, I am satisfied that Sainsburys notified Mr B when 
they changed in 2018 and that its more likely than not that he received this notice. I also 
havent seen anything to suggest that he has ever told Sainsburys he doesnt accept the 
terms. 
These terms make it very clear that funds will only be transferred to a current account. I 
understand Mr B wants his remaining balance sent to another savings account, but I cant 
ask Sainsburys to do that because it isnt a service they offer. 
I also note that Mr B has sent a statement, received by his Mother that suggests the closing 
balance can be sent by cheque. Sainsburys have explained that this is there in error as they 
used to pay closing balances by cheque, but its not something they can do now. I agree that 
this is misleading and can understand why Mr B brought it to our attention. But we have 
asked Sainsburys and it is there in error meaning I wouldnt be able to ask them to send a 
cheque. 
Mr B said he questioned what Sainsburys would do if a customer didnt have a current 
account. He said they explained that a new current account would have to be set up so the 
transfer could be made. I appreciate Mr Bs argument that some people may not have a 
current account, or that some people may not be able to get one due to their financial 
situation. But I havent seen anything to suggest that these scenarios apply to Mr B. For this 
reason Im not able to ask Sainsburys to do anything different as they have complied with 
the terms of the account. 
If Mr B wants his closing balance transferred out of his savings account, he will need to give 
Sainsburys details of a current account in his name.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman