DRN-3468129
The complaint
This complaint is brought by the representatives of the estate of the late Mrs P, against 
Zurich Assurance Ltd. The complaint has been dealt with by Mrs A, one of the 
representatives. For ease of reference, I will refer to Mrs A throughout this decision rather 
than both representatives.
Mrs A says that she believes an equity release mortgage was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs P by a 
representative of Zurich. Specifically, Mrs A says that no advice was given by Zurich, and 
the adviser did not meet Mr and Mrs P. Mrs As main concern is that the mortgage was set 
up on a fixed rate, but amongst Mr and Mrs P papers she has found reference in the original 
lenders documentation to rates linked to base rate.
To settle the complaint, Mrs A wants Zurich to pay damages for failure to advise before the 
mortgage was entered into.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include anything that might 
cause Mr and Mrs P or the representatives to be identified. I also note that the history of the 
events giving rise to the complaint is set out in detail in correspondence between Mrs A, 
Zurich and our investigator, so there is no need for me to repeat every detail here.
For all these reasons, I will provide only a brief summary of what led to the complaint being 
raised.
In September 2004 Mr and Mrs P took out an equity release mortgage on the advice of 
Zurich. They borrowed £35,000 at a fixed rate of interest of 6.69%. In common with this type 
of mortgage, no monthly repayment is due; instead interest rolls up into the total account 
balance, which is repayable on the death of the last surviving borrower. The mortgage 
completed on 25 October 2004.
Mr P passed away in 2005 and I am sorry to note that Mrs P passed away a few months 
ago. I am sure it has been very distressing for the family to have had to raise a complaint 
about this in the aftermath of Mrs Ps death. 
Mrs A says that it was only after Mrs Ps death that papers were found that indicated interest 
rates having reference to a base rate, but the mortgage Mr and Mrs P had taken out was at 
a fixed rate. Mrs A raised a complaint with Zurich, saying that no advice had been given to 
Mr and Mrs P.
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. She thought, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Mr and Mrs P had met the adviser. She found nothing to lead her to conclude that the 
mortgage had been mis-sold.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators findings, reiterating points shed previously made - 
that she had no knowledge of any meetings between Mr and Mrs P and Zurich, and that 
Mr and Mrs P never mentioned having spoken to the adviser on the telephone. Mrs A 
confirmed she herself had no knowledge of various events or documents relating to the 
application.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
Provisional decision of 22 April 2022
I issued a provisional decision, in which I reached the following conclusions.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr and Mrs P were 
consumers and so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. 
For the purposes of this complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on 
behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant 
or authorised by law. In this respect, the representatives are bringing the complaint 
on the estates behalf, and as such are authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Mrs A is representing the estate, it is Mr and Mrs P 
who were Zurichs customers (or at least were at the time of the events complained 
about). Mrs As role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way 
that other consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent 
them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mrs A to air her own grievances about 
Zurich, because she is not its customer; Mrs As role is limited to putting forward the 
estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs A has expressed her own opinions 
about what she perceives to be Zurichs failings  and I do not doubt her strength of 
feeling about this. But because Mrs A is not Zurichs customer, her concerns about 
Zurich dont form part of this complaint.
In addition, were impartial and we dont take either sides instructions on how we 
investigate a complaint, as this would compromise our independence and 
impartiality. So although Ive noted Mrs A has raised questions that shed like Zurich 
to answer to her satisfaction, its not part of our process to put these questions to 
Zurich.Mr and Mrs P hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it 
was only after Mrs P had died that a complaint was raised with Zurich. So in this final 
decision I have looked at the sale of the plan. Without a specific complaint from 
Mr and Mrs P about it, I have considered generally whether Zurich did anything 
wrong when the mortgage was taken out.
As there is no complaint or direct testimony from Mr or Mrs P, I have looked at the 
documents that are available from the time. Where the evidence is incomplete or 
inconclusive, I am entitled to decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is 
most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence, decide how much weight should be 
attached to it and what conclusions can be drawn from it. When dong that, we dont 
just consider individual documents in isolation; we consider everything together to 
form a broader opinion on the whole picture.
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs A is adamant that no advice was ever given to 
Mr and Mrs P by Zurich about the equity release mortgage. Zurich disputes this. 
Neither side accepts what the other has said. As a result, I have to decide what is 
more likely, on the balance of probabilities, given the available evidence. 
As the estate is making the allegation that no advice was given, in order for me to 
uphold the complaint, the estates version of events needs to be more likely than 
Zurichs, not just as likely. There is no direct testimony from Mr and Mrs P about what 
happened when they took the mortgage out, so Ive looked at the available evidence 
from 2004.
The starting point here is the point-of-sale documentation and background notes. The 
value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous, so they should reflect 
what was said and agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its 
always possible information might have been recorded incorrectly, but its typically 
more reliable than peoples recollections at a distance of time  particularly where the 
people recalling the events are not (as in this case) the parties involved in the 
transaction. So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information in the 
contemporaneous documents is inaccurate, well generally attach some weight to it.
The mortgage was arranged and taken out in 2004, but before mortgages became 
regulated on 31 October 2004. This means that the regulations that apply to selling 
standards today did not apply then; instead, the mortgage was sold in line with the 
Mortgage Code, a voluntary code of practice to which Zurich subscribed. 
Mrs A has confirmed that it was she who introduced Mr and Mrs P to Zurichs adviser 
in order for them to discuss an equity release mortgage. I can see from the advisers 
contemporaneous notes and the correspondence from the time that Mrs A liaised 
with both Zurich and Mr and Mrs P in providing, for example, copies of their 
passports and proof of residence.
There was no requirement under the Mortgage Code for Zurich to have a face-to-
face meeting with Mr and Mrs P.  I note that a fact-find was completed by Zurich, 
which contained details of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances, needs and wishes, which 
led to the recommendation of the equity release mortgage.Mr and Mrs P wanted to raise capital but were retired and had insufficient income to 
maintain a regular mortgage. They owned their home free of mortgage and so an 
equity release mortgage was the only way they could raise the capital they needed.  
Given the detail contained in the form, I am persuaded, on balance, that this was 
most likely to have been compiled during a telephone conversation between 
Mr and Mrs P and the adviser when the details were taken of their financial 
circumstances, their wishes and needs, and where a recommendation was made for 
the equity release mortgage.  
Mrs A says she has no knowledge of the circumstances in which the fact-find was 
completed  and, indeed, I wouldnt expect her to, as she wasnt a party to the 
mortgage. I accept her point that there was no face-to-face meeting (and, as I said 
above, there didnt need to be), but the available evidence persuades me that it is 
more likely than not that the application was discussed between Mr and Mrs P and 
Zurich. Mr and Mrs P were entitled to speak to the adviser on the telephone without a 
family member being present. 
The contemporaneous notes show that fixed and variable rate mortgage options 
were provided to Mr and Mrs P. Im satisfied, therefore, that they were given clear 
and detailed information about both options.
An application form was submitted to the lender and the valuation fee paid (on 
Mr and Mrs Ps behalf, by Mrs A). On 19 August 2004 the lender requested ID for 
Mrs P and which product you require either standard fixed or standard capped we 
will not be able to go to offer until this has been confirmed. The advisers notes show 
that on 1 September 2004 it was confirmed to him (by Mrs A) that Mr and Mrs P 
wanted a fixed rate on the mortgage.
The offer was issued on 23 September 2004. The lender required Mr and Mrs P to be 
given independent advice from their own solicitor. (I note the solicitor who advised 
Mr and Mrs P was a relative, but nothing turns on this, as I understand the family 
connection was disclosed to the lenders solicitors.) The solicitor completed a 
certificate which confirmed (amongst other things):
 that we have explained to the Borrowers the contents of the Key 
Information Documents (drawing the Borrowers specific attention to 
Paragraph 2 of that Document), Offer of Advance, HERM Mortgage Deed and 
HERM Mortgage conditions and that the Borrower(s) signed the Key 
Information Document in our presence. The signed Key Information document 
is returned herewith
The conclusion to be drawn from this is that if there had been anything in the 
mortgage documentation that Mr and Mrs P werent happy about or which they 
thought didnt match up with what Zurich had told them about the mortgage, then 
they would not have gone ahead with the transaction at that point. The fact that the 
form was signed by their solicitor is also persuasive that there were no concerns 
about the capacity of Mr and/or Mrs P to understand the nature and effect of the 
transaction they were entering into.  
Overall, the available evidence from 2004 does not lead me to conclude that the 
mortgage was mis-sold. 
Responses to the provisional decisionZurich didnt have any further comment to make. Mrs A responded, and I summarise the 
relevant points below:
nobody knew the circumstances leading to completion of the fact-find, and nobody at our 
service knew Mr and Mrs P. Mrs A says she is the best judge as to what they would or 
would not have done;
they would never have discussed anything with Zurichs representative without her 
knowledge and would instead have referred him to her;
there was no contact between Mr and Mrs P and Zurich and they never indicated their 
wishes and needs about the mortgage;
due to the layout of their home, it wasnt possible for Mr and Mrs P to use the telephone 
to speak to Zurich;
Mrs A knows Mr and Mrs P would always have wanted her to be present when any 
discussions took place;
Mrs A disputes there are contemporaneous records from 2004, and that there is no fully 
documented contemporaneously prepared note of discussions;
Mrs A says she has seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs P were told about the mortgage.
Mrs A has also raised some questions which she would like to be answered to her 
satisfaction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file again from the outset, including the additional points Mrs A has raised, 
and Ive revisited my provisional decision.
I will start by reiterating the points made in my provisional decision and repeated above  the 
Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt act for consumers or businesses. Although Ive noted 
Mrs As questions shed like answered, its not my role to act as her representative in this 
complaint or to put her questions to Zurich. Mrs As questions appear to be largely rhetorical, 
in any event.
Mrs A is insistent that Zurich never gave advice to Mr and Mrs P, there was never any direct 
contact between Zurich and Mr and Mrs P and that if Zurich had been in contact with them, 
Mr and Mrs P would have simply referred Zurich on to Mrs A. Therefore, Mrs A says there is 
no evidence to suggest Zurich ever had any direct dealings with Mr and Mrs P and so could 
not have given them any advice about the mortgage.
However, I disagree. As I explained in my provisional decision, if I am to uphold this 
complaint, I must find the estates case to be more persuasive than Zurichs. After reviewing 
the evidence, I find the evidence that Zurich had contact with Mr and Mrs P to be the most 
persuasive argument.
First of all, Mrs A accepts she has no knowledge of how the fact-find came to be completed, 
and as she wasnt a party to the mortgage, thats understandable. The information on the 
fact-find wasnt invented out of thin air by Zurich, so the most likely scenario is that the 
information was supplied to Zurich by Mr and Mrs P, in circumstances unknown to Mrs A.But secondly  and this is the evidence that is most persuasive  Mrs A says that it was only 
after Mrs Ps death that she first found a booklet (as well as other documentation about the 
mortgage) that referred to both variable and fixed-rate options. As Mrs A said in her initial 
complaint to our service: 
Those booklets and other papers were obviously seen by [Mr and Mrs P], as is 
evidenced by their existence with other estate papers, but it was only after the death 
of [Mrs P] that we were aware of those booklets and the statements they contained 
 (my emphasis)
From this I am able to conclude that there was contact between Zurich and Mr and Mrs P 
which Mrs A wasnt aware of; otherwise, how else could Mr and Mrs P have been in 
possession of documentation relating to the mortgage that Mrs A didnt know existed until 
after Mrs Ps death. 
Therefore , notwithstanding Mrs As insistence that Zurich never had any contact with 
Mr or Mrs P about the mortgage, the evidence contradicts this. There is the fact-find, 
containing information about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances, wishes and needs which only 
Mr and Mrs P could have given to Zurich. There is also documentation which was in the 
possession of Mr and Mrs P, and which Mrs A says she knew nothing about until 2021. This 
leads me to conclude that advice was given to Mr and Mrs P about the mortgage. 
Ive noted what Mrs A has said  that Mr and Mrs P would simply have referred Zurich to her 
if theyd been contacted by Zurich directly. But the evidence shows otherwise, because it is 
clear from what Mrs A has said in her complaint to us that Zurich had contact with 
Mr and Mrs P that she didnt know about, both in relation to the completion of the fact-find 
and in terms of documentation about the mortgage found after Mrs Ps death. In the 
circumstances, I reject Mrs As argument that no advice was given by Zurich to 
Mr and Mrs P.
There was no requirement under the Mortgage Code for detailed attendance notes to be 
completed. The notes compiled by Zurich at the time of the sale are sufficient to persuade 
me that the fixed rate option was selected for this mortgage. I appreciate with the passage of 
time that Mrs A has no recollection of passing on to the broker on 1 September 2004 the 
information that Mr and Mrs P wanted a fixed rate. Thats understandable, was it was over 
17 years ago. However Im satisfied I can rely on the notes that were made at the time as 
being a reliable record of what was discussed.
In the circumstances, I remain of the opinion that the mortgage wasnt mis-sold and that the 
recommendation was based on information compiled from Mr and Mrs P about their 
circumstances, wishes and needs. Im also satisfied that the evidence shows a fixed rate 
was chosen in 2004. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for. If the estate decides to reject this 
decision, it wont be legally-binding, either on the estate or Zurich. The estate would then be 
able to pursue the matter in court, if the representatives wished to do so. 
We dont decide things in the same way as a court because we dont take oral evidence from 
witnesses in person. So if the estate decided to take legal action against Zurich (subject, of 
course, to the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980), there would be the opportunity for 
cross-examination of those parties who (in addition to Mr and Mrs P, who are no longer 
living) were involved in arranging this mortgage in 2004, including Zurichs representative, Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor and, of course, Mrs A.  I would suggest the estate takes legal advice 
before deciding whether or not to commence any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman