DRN-3446143
The complaint
Mr W complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Hitachi Capital) have 
sought to recover since they agreed to allow him to reject a car he was financing through 
them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the investigators opinion. 
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
When Hitachi agreed to allow him to reject the car and to end his finance agreement with 
them their email of 15 September 2021 said they would return two finance instalments and 
the initial rental. They advised Mr W that he may still be billed for any damage in excess of 
the return standard and that he may have to pay excess mileage charges.
The damage charges were waived but Hitachi Capital explained that they were applying 
some excess mileage charges because Mr W had travelled, pro-rata, further than he was 
contracted to. Hitachi Capital subsequently agreed to reduce that mileage charge by 50% in 
recognition of the confusing information Mr W had been given about whether the last hire 
instalment was due and also because theyd incorrectly issued a default notice on the 
account.
Hitachis email of 15 September 2021 also advised Mr W to cancel his September 2021 
direct debit to prevent it being taken if he chose to go ahead with the rejection.
Whilst I can understand that this process has been frustrating and upsetting for Mr W I dont 
think Hitachi Capital need to take any further action. Ill explain why.
The monthly rentals were paid one month in advance so the rental for the month ending 28 
September 2021 was paid at the start of September 2021 and before the letter from Hitachi 
Capital was received on 15 September telling Mr W to cancel his direct debit. I think that 
email would therefore have been understood to have applied to the next payment and not 
the one due for Septembers usage.
Hitachi Capital offered and have refunded two monthly instalments and the initial instalment 
in respect of the impaired usage Mr W had from the car in the five or so months he had it. 
That seems reasonable in the circumstances, and I dont think there was ever a promise to 
remove the September instalment as well.
The terms of Mr Ws contract said:
9.2 If the Vehicle is returned before or after the end of the Minimum Hire Period the total
allowed mileage will be calculated monthly on a pro rata basis and you must pay on demand
excess mileage charges at the rate specified in this Agreement.
So, I think Hitachi Capital were entitled to rely on that clause and to charge Mr W a pro-rata 
amount for any excess mileage. Mr W had travelled about 6,100 miles in the car when it was 
returned and that was in excess of the pro-rata mileage allowance. I think it was therefore 
fair for a charge to be levied.
It's clear that Hitachi made mistakes here. They were late applying damage charges; 
provided inaccurate information about the outstanding rental charge and sent a default 
notice prematurely. However, I can see that Hitachi have tried to put things right. Theyve 
waived the damage charges and halved the excess mileage fee, and, in the circumstances, I 
think thats sufficient and Ill not be asking them to take any further action.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman