DRN-4139558
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained that West Bay Insurance Plc have declined to cover all the 
losses they suffered when there was an escape of water in their home. 
West Bay are the underwriters of this policy ie the insurer. Part of this complaint refers to 
actions taken by the intermediary.  Any reference to West Bay includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
In summer 2022, one of the water pipes in Mr and Mrs Es home sprang leaks. The floors in 
their kitchen and utility room were affected. And the house became sufficiently damp for 
drying to be needed before repairs were made.
Mr and Mrs E submitted a claim to West Bay. They were dissatisfied with various aspects of 
West Bays handling of their claim and complained. West Bay upheld complaints about the 
quality of the drying that had taken place and that theyd not addressed issues with mould at 
the property. They paid Mr and Mrs E £150 compensation for these issues.
But West Bay didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaints that theyd only agreed to pay for 
replacement of floor tiles that had been damaged  not for those that ran throughout their 
open plan ground floor area  and theyd refused to provide alternative accommodation for 
Mr and Mrs Es chickens. So Mr and Mrs E brought those complaints to our service.
Our investigator considered these issues and concluded West Bay needed to do more to 
resolve the complaint. He said it was fair for West Bay not to pay boarding fees for the 
chickens, as theyd already paid more than they needed to for the familys alternative 
accommodation. And he said that Mr and Mrs Es policy didnt have cover for matching sets 
 so it wasnt fair to say West Bay should pay for the whole floor. But the investigator said Mr 
and Mrs E should be compensated for the loss of their open plan flooring by West Bay 
paying 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged sections.
I didnt agree with our investigators view.  So I made a provisional decision.  Having 
reviewed the policy terms, I concluded chickens met the definition of pet in the policy.  So I 
said West Bay should pay for their alternative accommodation as the policy extends this to 
the policyholder(s), their family, and their pets.
In respect of the floor damage, I relied on a policy term which said:
We will not pay for replacing or working on any undamaged items or remaining parts just 
because they form part of a set, suite, group of collection of items of a similar nature, colour, 
pattern or design unless insured damage happens to matching items of buildings in the 
same room or open plan area and a replacement or reasonable match cannot be 
obtained. [my emphasis]
to provisionally decide that West Bay should re-assess the claim for the tiled floor, to include 
all parts of the open plan ground floor which matched the damaged area.
In response to my provisional decision, both parties contacted me to confirm that I had been 
provided with the wrong policy document and that Mr and Mrs Es policy didnt include the 
wording Ive emphasised in bold above  on which I relied to reach my provisional decision.
So I reviewed my provisional decision and let the parties know my revised view.  I didnt 
change my provisional decision in relation to providing alternative accommodation for the 
chickens, as neither party provided substantive comments to persuade me I should do that.
In relation to the flooring, I explained that I could no longer rely on the policy wording I had 
previously, because it wasnt part of Mr and Mrs Es policy.  So I couldnt say West Bay 
should be responsible for the cost of replacing the undamaged, matching areas.  
But I explained our usual approach is to say insurers should make a contribution to replacing 
undamaged, matching items where an exact match cant be made, to compensate for the 
loss of match.  I told the parties I thought this was a reasonable resolution to the complaint 
and invited their comments.
Comments have now been provided and the complaint returned to me to make my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint as I outlined in my 
correspondence with the parties and summarised above.  Ill explain why in more detail.
But, before I do that, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs E that I have considered all the 
evidence they  and indeed West Bay  have provided during the investigation.  But Ive 
focused on the points and evidence I consider material to my decision. So, if I dont refer to a 
particular point or piece of evidence, its not because I havent thought about it.  Rather, I 
dont consider it changes the outcome of the complaint.
Providing alternative accommodation for the chickens
As I explained in my provisional decision, I considered the policy terms and concluded there 
was no evidence to persuade me the chickens werent family pets.  The policy provides 
cover for alternative accommodation for pets.  As neither party has made any substantive 
comments on this part of my provisional decision, Im satisfied that is also my final decision 
on this point.
Flooring
Neither party responded substantively to my provisional decision.  But both have commented 
on the email I sent to them explaining why I couldnt endorse my provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs E have referred me to a number of decisions they say show similar 
circumstances and where ombudsmen have made decisions that the insurer should pay the 
full cost of all continuous flooring.  Ive read these decisions.  And I understand why Mr and 
Mrs E have sent them to us.  But our role is to consider each case on its own merits.  Unlike 
the courts, our previous decisions dont set a precedent for what may follow.  So what those 
ombudsmen decide doesnt dictate the decision I make in this case.
Even if that werent the case, I have only the decisions  not the evidence that led to them 
being made.  There may be key differences between those complaints and this one which arent apparent in the decisions.  So I think the fairest approach is to focus my decision on 
the information available in relation to the policy and evidence for this case.
Ive considered the policy terms again.  I think my provisional decision made clear I based 
my conclusion on the policy wording quoted above  particularly the section in bold. Ive 
since been made aware Mr and Mrs Es policy didnt include that wording.  I think the 
provision immediately preceding that term is also relevant here.  That says:
For the purpose of settling any claim, we will treat a repair or replacement which is as near 
as is reasonably possible as suitable even though the former appearance or condition of the 
property may not be precisely restored.
I think that term is clear.  And I think West Bays suggestion  to replace the flooring in the 
damaged areas and to install thresholds across the open areas  would have been in line 
with a strict interpretation of this term, as it would have fulfilled the policy obligation to repair 
or replace damaged items.  
But my roles not confined just to deciding whether a business has dealt with a claim in line 
with its policy terms  its to decide whether the outcome that produces is fair.  I dont think it 
would be in this case.  So Ive set out below what I think should happen.  
Putting things right
Ive thought very carefully about whats the fairest outcome to this complaint. Mr and Mrs E 
submit that the floor is a single item, so must be replaced in full by West Bay.
Ive considered this.  But I dont agree.  The floor in this case is made up of tiles, which 
match throughout the ground floor.  Im satisfied its reasonable to say they are a matching 
set, not a single continuous item.  So the terms relating to matching items are relevant.
The majority of the matching tiles are undamaged.  So  applying the terms Ive quoted  
theres no cover provided to replace these.  
But, as I explained in my email to the parties, I do think Mr and Mrs E should be 
compensated for the loss of match of the tiles by West Bay paying them a sum equivalent to 
50% of the cost of replacing the tiles in all the undamaged areas.  They should pay this sum 
in cash so Mr and Mrs E can choose whether to keep it as a compensatory payment, or use 
it towards replacing the undamaged tiles so they match the repair West Bay will make.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Es comment that they cannot afford to do that if they only receive 
50% of those costs.  Im sorry thats the case.  But I have to be fair to both parties.  The 
policy provides no cover for undamaged items.  Ive explained why I dont think thats fair.  
But I also dont think its fair to say West Bay should contribute more than this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Es complaint and directing West 
Bay Insurance Plc to:
Reimburse Mr and Mrs E the cost of alternative accommodation for their chickens 
(£441);
Pay simple interest on this sum, calculated at the rate of 8% per annum from the date 
Mr and Mrs E paid the invoice for this until the date West Bay reimburse them;Compensate Mr and Mrs E for the loss of match to their ground floor open plan area 
by paying them an amount equivalent to 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged 
tiling in the whole of this area.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman