DRN-2852229
The complaint
L is a limited company and is represented by its director who Ill refer to as Mr S. The 
complaint is about HDI Global SEs decision to decline paying a business interruption claim 
made under a Small Commercial / SME Package Cover insurance policy.
What happened
L closed its business premises around the time of the governments statement in response 
to controlling the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. L submitted a claim for financial losses 
as a consequence of being closed. HDI declined Ls claim saying that while there was cover 
for notifiable human diseases there had to be an occurrence of such a disease at the 
premises. In Ls circumstances, HDI said there was no such occurrence at its premises, so 
cover didnt apply.
Our investigator explained his view that he didnt think HDI had acted unfairly. He was 
satisfied L hadnt provided information that showed there was an occurrence of a notifiable 
human disease at its premises. He was more persuaded that Ls closure was a result of 
general government restrictions which the policy didnt cover.
Mr S didnt accept what the investigator said and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. The investigator asked Mr S for further information on what he disagreed 
with so he might be able to clarify matters. Mr S hasnt responded to that offer.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance policy sets out what events are covered and how if at all cover is restricted, 
limited, conditional or specifically excluded. The business interruption part of the policy 
explains the circumstances where HDI will pay out for financial losses if the insured 
premises is closed or restricted. For ease Ive copied the relevant part below;
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises 
 
The part in issue here is whether Ls premises were closed in keeping with the above 
italicised term. And the crux of it is whether there was an occurrence of a Notifiable Human 
Disease at Ls premises.
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease and Im satisfied Covid-19 meets the policy 
definition  HDI has not taken any issue with that. But there is a complete absence of 
anything from L to demonstrate there was an occurrence of Covid-19 at its premises. HDI 
issued guidance to it policyholders in April 2020 which included a section about what 
evidence would be needed for a claim, and this included details of the alleged occurrence of 
Covid-19 at the insured premises. The investigator explained that he too wasnt persuaded 
HDI should cover Ls claim because there was no evidence of an occurrence at Ls 
premises. And despite offering a further opportunity to Mr S, no more information has been 
presented, and so there remains an absence of evidence of an occurrence of a Notifiable 
Human Disease at Ls premises.
I am aware that there has been a significant amount of litigation around Business 
Interruption because of the pandemic. The Supreme Court issued its judgement on a test 
case relating to several different insurance policies and the Regulator (the Financial 
Conduct Authority) has issued guidance to firms. Its noteworthy that the FCAs guidance 
specifies that the test case is not seeking to resolve coverage issues relating to clauses 
which require the disease to be present on the insured premises. The type of policy L had 
was not one of the policies the Supreme Court considered given the term in issue was a 
requirement for an occurrence on the premises. 
In summary, the policy has a clear requirement for an occurrence of a Notifiable Human 
Disease at Ls premises. But after careful consideration Im not satisfied L has shown such 
an occurrence is more likely than not. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ls complaint about HDI Global SE.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman