DRN-2550655
The complaint
Mr K complains that 3J Finance Limited wont release him from a fixed sum loan agreement 
which paid for an online educational course for his children.
What happened
In December 2018 Mr K bought an online educational course for his children using credit 
provided by 3J. 3J says he took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over five years to pay for 
this educational course.
In December 2019 Mr K cancelled the direct debit payment to 3J. In February 2020 Mr K 
explained that he thought hed been paying for a pay as you go type arrangement for the 
provision of the educational course to his children. But he was told he was in a fixed sum 
loan agreement and he couldnt cancel. So he complaint. 3J considered the matter and 
concluded that it hadnt done anything wrong. So Mr K brought his complaint to this service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint about 3J. Mr K asked why hed need a loan 
to pay for the course and repeated his position that he thought hed been sold a pay as you 
go arrangement. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Mr K has said about what happened here. I note he gives very 
little description of the sales process at the time he was sold this course both in his 
comments to this service but also in his representations to the business. And doesnt give 
any persuasive reasoning regarding the paperwork which was completed at the time and he 
signed.
3J has said that Mr K signed and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance 
agreement, was aware of the cancellation period and had discussed the matter thoroughly 
with the representative at the time. 
3J didnt sell Mr K the course, but it has some responsibilities to Mr K due to certain 
protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan Mr K entered 
with 3J is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act which provide him with 
some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the seller of the course the agent of 3J 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr K entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication he received. In essence this means 3J can be held 
responsible for the things that were done or said during the sales process by another party 
(the representative Mr K met). Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr K to hold 3J liable for 
breaches of contract by the course provider, or misrepresentations made in relation to the 
purchase of the course.
3J has pointed to a number of documents which were electronically signed including the 
credit agreement and also a document which Mr K completed and signed by hand. 3J says 
these documents show that Mr K knew what he was doing. 3Js position is essentially is that 
the documentary evidence from the point of sale is decisive and is, in short, the end of the 
matter as Mr K agreed to everything in those documents. It is my view that 3Js position here 
is somewhat simplistic and doesnt sufficiently consider how the representative behaved on 
the day, what they said or didnt say and how they framed the process to Mr K. That said, 
this paperwork does carry some weight in my decision making.
And Im aware that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) wrote to credit brokers outlining 
some key risks for them to consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering 
credit agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving sales 
practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor 
consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers which sell products in consumers 
homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, especially where sales took place 
without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual 
firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the sale here does, at least, fit some of the criteria the 
FCA identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
sales practices used to sell the course sold here (and related courses) which are provided by 
the course provider in this case. And there are some common themes in these sales which 
illustrate that these sales practices werent always as they should have been. However this 
doesnt mean every sale was unsafe. And this service has seen examples of such sales 
which were conducted in the manner 3J and the course provider suggest.
Ive considered what Mr K has said about the sale itself and also thought very carefully about 
the nature of interactions Mr K had from December 2019 onwards. I can also see that the 
course provider spoke to Mr Ks wife in the early months of the course and that it is apparent 
that the children enjoyed the course and were doing it regularly at that time. I can also see 
that Mr K made clear that hed lost his job in the first couple of months of raising his 
complaint on this matter. And that when he first contacted the business in December 2019 
there was no comment about mis-sale but rather that his children were no longer using the 
course. Mr K has also indicated that there had been plans for his children to move abroad to 
study there from April 2020. This would seem to be a significant change for these children, 
so Id expect to have been considered over time rather than on a whim. (These plans were 
changed by the arrival of the pandemic in the early months of 2020).
Furthermore Mr K hasnt given a persuasive description of how he signed this paperwork 
without realising it was a credit facility during the sale itself. Mr K says about the 
representative, He asked me to sign a number of screens on his laptop tablet. Much of 
which was very lengthy, and it was not reasonable for someone to be able to make an 
informed decision. But Mr K does clearly accept that he was shown these documents and 
didnt read them fully but did sign a number of screens. So there doesnt appear in this 
case to be any unscrupulous use of Mr Ks signature by the representative which has been 
suggested in other similar cases.
Although I consider Mr Ks comments plausible I do not think that they are sufficiently 
persuasive to override 3Js comments and submissions on the matter. So I dont think Mr K 
was materially misrepresented into entering an agreement hed otherwise not have entered.
I also have to consider whether there was any breach of contract here. But having 
considered the evidence including the submissions about how his children were provided 
with the course and were consistently working through the modules and assessments provided by the course provider Im not persuaded there has been any breach. Accordingly I 
do not see any persuasive reason to uphold this complaint against 3J.
I appreciate this isnt a decision Mr K wishes to hear. However all things considered Im not 
persuaded that 3J did anything sufficiently wrong here to uphold this complaint against it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against 3J Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman