DRN-3173667
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr I complain about the poor service provided by HSBC UK Bank Plc when they 
applied for a mortgage in 2020.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr I already had a mortgage offer for an intended purchase that didnt result in a 
purchase and then in July 2020 applied for another mortgage of £318,000.00. Although they 
got a mortgage offer and purchased the property, they found the process so stressful, in 
particular as the result of their interactions with a named mortgage adviser, that it affected 
their health. HSBC apologised for the distress Mrs H and Mr I experienced and said that it 
couldnt provide feedback to the mortgage adviser as she had left HSBC. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that 
there were unreasonable delays and that HSBCs apology was enough in the circumstances. 
Mrs H and Mr I disagree saying in summary that our investigators response was unfairly 
simplistic undermining the severity of the impact on them and disproportionately leaning 
towards defending HSBC despite all its acknowledged failings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H and Mr I complain about the service they got from HSBC during what they term 
unprecedented and testing times. I have carefully read the evidence submitted by Mrs H 
and Mr I. They clearly had an unhappy experience during the video call with the mortgage 
adviser on 27 July 2020 and subsequently. Mrs H and Mr I provide a list of complaints and 
how it affected them. For example:
Cause for complaint: the mortgage adviser opted to use Zoom for the face to face video call, 
yet there were long intervals of dead time where she simply stared at her screen with no 
human interaction. She didnt smile once during the whole call.
Impact: Poor and miserable customer service, contributing to our insecurity and anxiety 
regarding the success of the process and ruining the excitement of buying our first home.
We all have our individual responses to these situations. But I have to recognise that this 
was a period when advisers were adjusting, and not always well, to different ways of 
communicating with clients. Mrs H and Mr I describe themselves as highly competent users 
of IT and Zoom and found it frustrating dealing with an adviser who may not have been. Mrs 
H and Mr I several times refer, as above, to their insecurity and anxiety regarding the 
success of the process because of this. 
The issue I have to consider is whether their response to these communication issues was 
reasonable and whether HSBC was at fault for Mrs H and Mr Is insecurity, anxiety and 
stress regarding the success of the process. I appreciate that Mrs H and Mr I were unhappy 
with how the adviser managed the interview and Ive considered their detailed complaints 
about that. From what thy say it did not go smoothly and the adviser appears to have had 
difficulty with the technology. That might reasonably lead to a sense of annoyance, but I 
dont consider is that its reasonable on its own to lead to a conclusion that their application 
was somehow in jeopardy. 
Although Mrs H and Mr I were unhappy with the mortgage application interview the 
application proceeded, in the main, normally There were some concerns about information 
not being received and potentially confusing correspondence arising through the previous 
mortgage application. But these issues were resolved within a reasonable period. There was 
no doubt frustration at the length of time waiting on phone responses but at that time I 
expect that HSBCs mortgage department would have been under severe pressure coping 
with the impact of the pandemic, the resulting recession and the volume of requests for 
assistance from customers facing financial difficulties.  
I note from Mrs H and Mr Is evidence that there were failures in the quality of the service 
provided by HSBC, particularly in HSBCs communications with them. But I have to 
recognise that these failures would have been related to the unprecedented and testing 
times described by the borrowers and that Mrs H and Mr I got their mortgage without 
unreasonable delay. So, on balance I dont consider that HSBC was at fault for the insecurity 
and anxiety that Mrs H and Mr I describe. My view is that and an apology is appropriate but 
on balance I dont consider that further compensation would be due and so, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman