DRN-4174064
The complaint
Mr R complains Santander UK Plc charged him interest on a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr R transferred a balance from a credit card to his Santander credit card. This transfer was 
to take advantage of a 0% balance transfer deal on his Santander card.
Mr R made some purchases on the Santander card but paid them off very quickly. Mr R was 
then charged interest, even though there was still time on his 0% balance transfer deal.
Mr R complained to Santander, and it sent a response to say Mr R was paying the 
purchases off too quickly and he needed to wait for them to appear on his statement.
Santander sent a further response to say it would allocate payments to Mr Rs statement 
balances that accrue interest first, then other balances. Santander didnt think it had done 
anything wrong and wouldnt refund the interest Mr R had been charged.
Unhappy with this response, Mr R brought his complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld.
The investigator thought Santander had applied the payments Mr R made to the credit card 
in line with its terms and conditions. The investigator said the purchases Mr R made werent 
showing on the statement at the point Mr R paid money to the credit card.
This meant Mr Rs payments went to his balance transfer amount, and then interest was 
charged because Mr R hadnt cleared his purchase balance. The investigator said 
Santander made an offer to refund some of the interest, but Mr R turned this down.
Mr R responded to say he was never offered anything. Mr R also said his mobile application 
should be showing the correct position of his credit card. Mr R said the transactions were 
showing but his payments werent allocated to the card transactions.
Mr R felt the credit card wasnt really 0% if he was charged interest.
The investigator sent Mr R copies of the call where hed turned down Santanders offer.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see what Mr R was trying to do here, and I can understand his frustration. Mr R knew 
there was a 0% balance transfer on the credit card, so he was looking to clear any other 
spending on the card to ensure he wasnt charged interest.
But I think Mr R was paying too early.
When Mr R used his card for retail purchases theyll show on his mobile application as 
having been made. But this doesnt mean the purchases need to be paid off at that time.
Credit cards have monthly statements, and these show when and what Mr R needed to pay. 
The mobile application shows the purchases, but these arent statements.
Mr Rs credit card statements are produced around the 5th of each month, to be paid 26 days 
later. Mr Rs July 2022 statement was produced on 6 July. This statement shows spending 
through June 2022 and some payments onto the card.
But these payments to the card will go towards June 2022s statement, not Julys. Julys 
statement says Mr R has to pay a certain amount before 1 August 2022. And these 
payments would need to be made after 6 July, the date the statement was produced.
Mr R had already paid towards the credit card, just too early to catch Julys statement.
It appears Mr R factored in the payments he made in June, to cover some of Junes 
purchases, when he paid in July. This meant he underpaid Junes purchases, and those 
purchases were charged interest.
Mr Rs statements show the balance transfer amount, and the interest charged on it, it was 
zero. Any interest Mr R was charged is, I think, for the purchases he made but didnt pay off 
in full in the month they were due.
To avoid interest on the purchases Mr R would need to wait for Julys statement to be 
produced, so after 6 July, and then pay all the retail purchase he made before the payment 
due date, 1 August.
By paying early, Santander allocated his payments towards any purchases accruing interest, 
then Mr Rs balance transfer balance, but not the recent purchases. This is laid out in 
Santanders terms. 
The terms say, where balances on the credit card are being charged the same interest, 
payments will go to purchases first, then balance transfers. But the terms then state 
remaining payments will go towards anything not yet shown on a statement.
Mr Rs purchases werent being charged interest because they werent showing on a 
statement yet. And because they werent showing on a statement, theyd be the last thing to 
be paid off when Mr R made, effectively, overpayments to his credit card.
Where Mr R thought he was paying additional payments to card purchases in the first month 
he made transactions, he was actually paying to his balance transfer amount. 
Although subsequent payments would have gone to previous months purchases, it seems 
Mr R never quite back to a point where hed cleared all the card transactions in a single 
statement period.
This was then compounded through the following months as Mr R made further payments to 
the credit card. These payments would go towards any purchases accruing interest from the previous month, and then Mr Rs balance transfer balance if applicable. 
None of Mr Rs additional payments would go towards purchases he made but hadnt shown 
up on a statement yet. I realise Mr R wanted to pay off his card purchases as soon as they 
showed, in the hope this would mean no interest, but it didnt work out that way.
I dont think Santanders charged Mr R interest in error. I think Santanders charged interest 
on purchases Mr R didnt pay off in full.
I realise this can be difficult to explain, and Ive listened to the calls Mr R had with Santander. 
Some of the explanations were a little unclear, but I think overall the message was clear, 
Mr R was paying off his purchases too early.
In one of the calls Santander offers to refund Mr R one months interest, as a gesture of 
goodwill, but he declines this offer. I can understand why Mr R declined the offer, he felt all 
the interest hed been charged was unfair.
Santanders confirmed this offer of one months interest, £57.39, is still open. If Mr R wants 
to accept this offer, he can contact Santander and ask it to pay it to him.
I dont think Santander needs to refund the interest it charged on Mr Rs credit card, I think it 
charged this fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman