DRN-3826450
The complaint
Mr C is complaining about how ICM Capital Limited managed his derivatives trading 
account.
What happened
Mr C has held an account with ICM for many years. In January 2021, Mr C complained to 
ICM about prices hed been quoted for certain stocks. ICM replied, offering to cancel related 
trades and waive any profits and losses as a gesture of goodwill. Mr C accepted this offer.
Around the same time, Mr C came to our service, raising three main points of complaint:
ICM quoted incorrect prices for certain stocks so he executed trades at the wrong 
prices, losing money as a result;
he had a Mastercard credit card issued by ICM but it didnt work for many years; and
ICM gave him insurance cover but it didnt compensate Mr C for his losses.
We passed Mr Cs complaint on to ICM but they didnt uphold it. They said theyd already 
compensated Mr C for the losses arising from the incorrect pricing. They said they couldnt 
see any evidence that his pre-paid Mastercard hadnt worked, and noted that his last card 
had expired in March 2019. In relation to the insurance, ICM said Mr C hadnt made a claim 
 but added that Mr Cs losses had arisen directly from his trading activity and so wouldnt be 
covered by the insurance.
Mr C remained unhappy. He said ICM had opened over 50 sub-accounts in his name which 
had made it very difficult for him to track all the accounts. And he added that hed employed 
people to help manage them. So the losses he was claiming included employment costs, 
utilities, and property rental. Mr C was also upset that ICM were now closing his account. 
Our investigator added these two issues into his investigation, giving ICM the opportunity to 
respond.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said ICM had already compensated Mr C 
for any losses directly relating to the incorrect quotes. And he couldnt see that ICM had 
done anything else wrong. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to look into his complaint  so its 
come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising Mr C will be disappointed with the outcome, Im not 
upholding his complaint. Ill explain why, addressing each complaint point separately.
Number of accounts
Part of Mr Cs complaint is about the number of sub-accounts he had. I can see there were 
over 50 sub-accounts, and I can appreciate this would have been challenging to manage. 
However, Ive seen evidence Mr C asked for these accounts to be opened. Mr Cs 
challenged the evidence, saying its incomplete and unpersuasive. Whilst we dont have 
copies of Mr Cs mandates for every sub-account, Ive seen enough  including emails from 
Mr C to ICM  to persuade me that they were opened at Mr Cs request. I dont think ICM 
forced Mr C into having so many sub-accounts  they were simply carrying out Mr Cs 
requests. 
I also note that Mr C didnt have to use the sub-accounts  some of them had never been 
used, and most hadnt been used for several years by the time Mr C complained.
Account closure
ICMs terms and conditions allow them to terminate a clients account with immediate notice 
at their sole discretion, without giving any reason for doing so. In this instance, ICM gave 
Mr C a months notice. And they explained their reasons for closing Mr Cs account. The 
reason was that ICM had decided not to provide services to retail clients any more. This was 
therefore a commercial decision, impacting a large group of people. So I cant say ICM was 
treating Mr C unfairly in this respect. And Im satisfied 30 days notice gave Mr C plenty of 
time to close out his trades in the most advantageous way possible.
Incorrect prices quoted
Mr C bought contracts in a certain instrument based on the prices hed seen displayed on 
the ICM platform. However, the actual prices at which the trades were executed were 
different. ICM said such discrepancies do happen from time to time and are referenced in 
their terms and conditions. And I can see thats set out in clause 4.11 of the client agreement 
 which states that ICM bears no responsibility for any loss caused by a variety of issues, 
including misquotes.  
ICM offered to cancel the relevant trades at no loss to Mr C. Mr C accepted this resolution at 
the time and hasnt complained about any further price discrepancies. So Im not asking ICM 
to do any more in relation to this complaint point.
Mastercard
Mr C seems to be complaining that his Mastercard didnt work in the way he expected. He 
thought it was a normal credit card but wasnt able to use it to transfer funds into his trading 
accounts. Mr C accepted in a call with our investigator that hed not suffered any losses in 
relation to not being able to use the card. 
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the card, and its clear that it was a pre-paid card. 
The intention of the card was to make it easy for customers of ICM to withdraw funds from 
their trading accounts  they could be transferred onto the card and then the card used 
wherever Mastercard is accepted, including to withdraw cash from cash machines. Whilst Mr 
C may have misunderstood the nature of the card, Im satisfied the terms and conditions 
were clear, and that Mr C hasnt lost out. So I cant say ICM acted unfairly or unreasonably.
Insurance
My understanding is that Mr C is complaining that he hasnt been compensated by ICMs 
insurance. The policy certificate Mr Cs sent us covers civil liability for forex brokers and is 
for ICMs benefit. Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mr C has tried to make a claim on this insurance. And my understanding is that he wouldnt be able to  instead it would be for ICM 
to claim if they needed to. So I cant say ICM have done anything wrong in this respect.
Summary
Having considered Mr Cs five complaint points, I cant see that ICM have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in their administration of Mr Cs account. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint about ICM Capital Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman