DRN-1252119
 
The complaint
Miss K complains that Right Choice Insurance Brokers Ltd (Right Choice) wouldnt honour 
the premium amount it agreed when it arranged a motor insurance policy for her.  
What happened
In July 2019 Miss K went online and selected a motor insurance policy arranged by Right 
Choice. In filling in the online application she said she had one driving conviction for 
speeding and three penalty points on her driving licence. In fact, she had three convictions 
for speeding and a total of ten penalty points on her licence.
Miss K then phoned Right Choice as requested to complete the application and set up the 
policy. In the course of the phone call she was asked to provide details of all motoring 
convictions fixed penalties and driving disqualifications or pending motoring prosecutions 
that youve had in the last five years. She answered Ive had three.
Right Choices representative quoted back the details of the conviction that was in the 
application form which she agreed, and then moved on to other questions. At the end of the 
call Right Choice confirmed the policy was set up at the premium it had quoted. However, 
when it later checked Miss Ks driving licence at DVLA, it found details of the other two 
convictions and penalty points.
Right Choice contacted Miss K and said the other two convictions and penalty points which it 
hadnt been aware of meant the premium should be increased by an additional £550. 
However, as a matter of goodwill it would only charge an additional £400.
Miss K complained to us. She said that in the phone call she had answered all the questions 
she had been asked. So she didnt think it was fair for Right Choice to increase her premium.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. Although Miss K hadnt 
provided the correct information in her online application, when she phoned to complete the 
application she correctly said she had three convictions. The representative quoted back to 
her the details of the conviction shown on her application form and said for speeding.
Miss K confirmed this was correct, and indeed all three convictions were for speeding. But 
the representative didnt ask any further questions about this. Miss K didnt volunteer any 
further information, but the investigator said we thought it was for a business to ask for the 
information it needed, not for a consumer to anticipate and volunteer what they thought was 
required.
The investigator recommended that Right Choice should only charge the original premium it 
had quoted, and should not charge the additional £400.
Right Choice responded to say, in summary, that:when Miss K said Ive had three this could be taken to refer to the three penalty 
points on the conviction she had disclosed;
Right Choice thought it should have been reasonable for Miss K to expect that it 
would want details of all her motoring convictions;
she had also failed to complete the online application form correctly. Right Choice 
didnt feel this non-disclosure had been sufficiently taken into consideration; and
she received the policy document and was asked to check that the information on it 
was correct. But she failed to do so and it was left to Right Choice to raise the issue 
with her after checking her record at DVLA.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Miss K included on the online application form was incorrect. However, after 
submitting that, she had to speak to Right Choice on the phone and answer a series of 
questions before the policy could be issued. 
The representative asked Miss K to provide details of all motoring convictions fixed 
penalties and driving disqualifications or pending motoring prosecutions that youve had in 
the last five years. She answered Ive had three.
I think this should have put the representative on enquiry. But he seems to have assumed 
what he expected to be told  just the one conviction. So he didnt follow this up. Miss K 
thought she had correctly disclosed her three convictions, and that because Right Choice 
didnt ask anything about the other two convictions it didnt need any further information.
So, like the investigator, I think its reasonable that Right Choice should only charge the 
original premium it quoted Miss K, and should not charge her the additional £400. 
Putting things right
To put things right,  Right Choice should only charge the original premium, and the 
instalments of the original premium, that it quoted Miss K. To the extent that Miss K has 
overpaid the premium or instalments of it, Right Choice should immediately refund the 
overpayment to her.   
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Right Choice only to charge Miss K the 
original premium it quoted her, and not to charge her the additional £400. To the extent that 
Miss K has overpaid the premium or instalments of it, I order Right Choice immediately to 
refund the overpayment to her.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman