DRN-3580791
The complaint
Mr R on behalf of the estate of Ms R complains that EUI Limited (trading as Admiral)(EUI)
refused to cancel Ms Rs multi-car insurance policy and refund the policy premium for the
unexpired term to her estate after she passed away.
The estate of Ms R is represented by her executor, Mr R, whom Ill also refer to in this
decision.
What happened
Ms R had a multi-car insurance policy taken out through EUI, which renewed automatically
in April 2021. It covered hers and her partners two cars (Ill call Ms Rs partner Mr M). The
policy was taken out by Ms R, she paid the premium using her credit card and she was
named as the administrator on the policy. And Mr M was a named driver.
Ms R passed away on 16 September 2021 and Mr R became the executor of her estate.
When Mr R, in his capacity as Ms Rs executor, called EUI to notify it of her passing, EUI 
initially told him it couldnt discuss the policy with him. EUI said this was because, following a 
phone call a few weeks earlier with Mr M, Ms Rs name had   from the policy (so the policy 
was in Mr Ms name only) and Mr M had been substituted as the policy administrator. It also 
emerged EUI had sent Mr M a premium refund of £166.60 following the removal of Ms Rs 
name from the policy.
Mr R, on behalf of the estate of Ms R, complained to EUI that:
EUI had refused to speak to him, as executor of Ms Rs estate, when he called up to
notify it of Ms Rs passing.
EUI had incorrectly issued the refund of £166.60 to Mr M, when it was due to Ms Rs
estate.
EUI had refused to carry out Mr Rs instructions as executor of Ms Rs estate to 
cancel the policy and refund Ms Rs estate the premium for the unexpired term of the
policy from the date of Ms Rs passing.
EUI upheld the complaint in part. It said Mr R shouldve been passed to another team when
he called to notify EUI of Ms Rs passing and it apologised to him for the distress and
inconvenience it had caused him in failing to do so. EUI also said it shouldnt have issued
the refund to Mr M, since he wasnt the executor of Ms Rs estate. EUI has since made a
payment of £166.60 to Ms Rs estate in recognition of its mistake.
But while EUI acknowledged Ms R had paid for the policy, it said its procedure in these
cases was only to cancel the cover for the portion of the insurance that was no longer
required. It said it couldnt cancel the cover that was now in Mr Ms name and refund Ms Rs
estate the full unexpired premium because Mr M was the remaining policyholder and had
become the policy administrator  so it would need his consent to do so. So EUI didnt
uphold this part of the complaint.
Unhappy with this, Mr R on behalf of the estate of Ms R, brought the complaint to us. The
investigator who looked at it didnt think EUI needed to do anything more. She thought EUI
was entitled to discuss the policy with Mr M and didnt make a mistake in removing Ms Rs
name from the policy when it was notified of her passing.
Mr R, on behalf of the estate of Ms R, disagreed. Among other things, he said EUI shouldve
treated the policy as void from the date of Ms Rs death, since she ceased to be capable of
being a performing party to a contract. So the complaint came to me to decide.
In my provisional decision of 23 May 2022, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint on behalf of the estate of Ms R. Both Mr R and EUI agree with my provisional 
decision, which has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision of 23 May 2022, Ive 
decided to uphold Mr Rs complaint on behalf of the estate of Ms R. 
In that decision, I said:
The contract of insurance EUI had was with Ms R only, not Ms R and Mr M. I say this
because Ms R paid for the policy and was named as the policy administrator. I think this
means that, on Ms Rs passing, Ms Rs policy with EUI came to an end. And it follows that
Mr R (in his capacity as the executor of her will) effectively stepped into Ms Rs shoes and
had the authority to notify EUI that Ms Rs estate wished to cancel the policy.
I should also say that, if Ive read it correctly, I think this is also what Ms Rs policy said. In a
section headed Instructions, a table set out the permissions various people who might be
involved in the administration of a policy had. For someone who was an executor, it said he
or she had permission to Cancel All. I think this means that, under the terms and conditions
of the policy Mr R, as Ms Rs executor, could cancel the whole policy.
Ms Rs policy also said EUI would deal with her spouse, partner, parent or any other person
named on her certificate of motor insurance. From what Mr R says, Mr M was Ms Rs partner
and he was also named as a driver on the certificate of insurance. EUI says this means,
under the terms and conditions of the policy, it was entitled to take instructions from Mr M.
But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable of EUI to rely
on this provision. Ms R (the other party to its contract) had passed away and EUI didnt know
(and seemingly didnt seek to verify) if Mr M had authority to act on behalf of Ms Rs estate.
Because of this, I dont think EUI shouldve allowed Mr M to amend the policy by having
Ms Rs name removed from it (and EUI shouldnt, as it accepts, have refunded him the
premium of £166.60).
What follows from this is that I think the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint is for
EUI to refund the estate of Ms R the premium she paid for the policy (which was £801.92)
from 16 September 2021 (when Ms R passed away) until 6 April 2022 (when the policy
wouldve expired had she not passed away). EUI Limited can deduct £166.60 from the
refund, since its already paid this amount to the estate of Ms R.
Its clear EUIs handling of this matter has caused Mr R distress and inconvenience at what
would already have been a very difficult time for him. But as our investigator has already
said in her view on the complaint, our rules dont allow us to compensate Mr R for the
personal impact the experience has had on him when representing Ms Rs estate.Mr R has asked if we can investigate whether EUI breached data protection laws in dealing
with Mr M. As our investigator has said in her view, this isnt something our rules allow us to
look at. Mr R would need to contact the Information Commissioners Office about it.
Mr R has also asked if we could impose a fine on EUI for misconduct. Again, as our
investigator has said in her view, our role isnt to fine businesses for misconduct  this is
something only the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, can do.
As Ive already said, both Mr R and EUI have agreed with my provisional decision. EUI has, 
though, questioned my decision that it should pay what it calls the full refund. It says:
I presume Mr M was driving during this time so I dont feel it fair for [EUI] to provide a full 
refund. Mr M was a policyholder of one of the vehicles on the policy and [EUI] have not been 
informed the vehicles werent being driven.
But when EUI was told by Mr M that Ms R had passed away, I think it should have cancelled 
Ms Rs policy at that point and it could then have set up a new one at Mr Ms request. EUI 
couldve collected the premiums for the period from Ms Rs passing to Mr Ms notification 
then. So EUIs comments dont change my provisional findings and conclusions on this 
complaint, which now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision of 23 May 2022, I uphold Mr Rs complaint 
on behalf of the estate of Ms R and direct EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) to pay the estate 
of Ms R:
A refund on the premium Ms R paid for the policy (which was £801.92) for the period 
from 16 September 2021 to 6 April 2022. EUI Limited can deduct £166.60 from the 
refund amount, since this has already been paid to the estate of Ms R.
Interest at the rate of 8% simple per year on the refund amount from 16 September
2021 to the date of payment.*
If EUI Limited (trading as Admiral) considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to
deduct income tax from that interest, I direct it should tell Mr R how much its taken
off. It should also give Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate, on behalf of Ms Rs estate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms R 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman