DRN-1812121
The complaint
Mr B complains that Motability Operations Limited (MO) asked him to pay arrears when he 
applied for a car on a MO hire agreement.
What happened
Mr B entered into a hire agreement with MO in March 2016. He received support from the 
DWP and used part of this (the Mobility Component) to hire a car from MO. Payments were 
made directly from DWP to MO.
In April 2016 DWP withdrew the Mobility Component of Mr Bs support. Mr B appealed this in 
an attempt to have the decision overturned.
In June 2016, MO became aware of the stopped allowance and wrote to Mr B. It advised him 
that as a consequence of DWP stopping his mobility allowance, he was no longer eligible to 
continue hiring the car on the MO scheme. It confirmed that Mr B could keep possession of 
the car until July 2016 to assist in keeping him mobile whilst he was appealing against the 
decision by DWP. MO advised Mr B that if his appeal was successful and he was awarded a 
backdated payment from DPW covering the period of time his allowance stopped, it would 
ask him to repay this period to MO if he wanted to re-join or remain on the scheme.
MO didnt receive any payments after 25 April 2016 but allowed Mr B to retain possession of 
the car until 20 July 2016.
Mr B was ultimately successful in his appeal and was reassessed by DWP in March 2017. 
His mobility allowance was restored and backdated to April 2016.
In 2019, Mr B found a new car to suit his needs. He applied to acquire it under an MO 
agreement, but his application was declined, and the dealership advised him to contact MO.
Mr B contacted MO in July 2019. MO advised him that there were arrears under his old 
agreement which had arisen in the period after his mobility allowance had been stopped and 
before the car was returned. The arrears totalled £705.81.
Mr B and MO reached an agreement whereby if Mr B paid 50% of the arrears, he would be 
allowed to make another application on the scheme and arrange a payment plan for the 
remainder.
In July 2019 Mr B entered into a new hire agreement with MO. He complained to MO and 
said he hadnt been told that he would have to pay the cost of vehicle hire for the time he 
had the car following the stopping of his mobility allowance.
In its final response, MO said it had advised Mr B of the circumstances in which he would be 
asked to pay arrears. It said it was only able to calculate arrears when it received 
confirmation from DWP that the allowance had been reinstated, and that it was reliant on 
customers to contact them to advise if an appeal had been successful. It said it was usual 
that it only found out that a customer had been re-awarded mobility allowance when they 
made a new application for the scheme.
Mr B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the agreement between MO and Mr B 
was clear about what would happen if he ceased to receive mobility allowance. She was 
satisfied that MO had advised Mr B that he would have to repay the hire costs if he received 
a backdated payment covering the period when his allowance stopped. The investigator 
concluded that MO hadnt acted unfairly in asking Mr B to pay the arrears.
Mr B didnt agree. He said when DWP stopped his allowance, he didnt hear from MO until 
July 2016 and felt that MO had left the car in his possession to generate four months of extra 
hire. He also said that having to pay 50% of the arrears up front had caused him financial 
hardship.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B, so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the agreement that Mr B entered into with MO in March 2016. It says that if Mr 
B ceased to receive allowance from DWP, the agreement can be terminated, and the car 
repossessed. It also says that Mr B is responsible for paying the equivalent amount of the 
allowance between the date the DWP payment s stopped and the date the agreement 
terminated, and the car handed back.
I can see that Mr B signed the agreement and agreed to be bound by the terms and 
conditions. 
Theres no dispute that Mr Bs allowance was withdrawn by DWP in April 2016. Mr B says he 
asked the supplying dealer what he should do and was advised to keep driving the car. Mr B 
says he didnt hear from MO until July 2016 when it contacted him about handing the car 
back.
I can see that MO contacted Mr B in June 2016 when it found out that his allowance had 
stopped. Mr B says he never received this letter. However, I can see that the letter was 
correctly addressed and Ive no reason to think it wasnt sent.
Im satisfied that the letter clearly sets out that if Mr Bs allowance was reinstated and 
backdated, he would be liable to pay for the time he had the car between the date his 
allowance stopped and the date the car was returned.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that MO left the car in his possession for longer than it should 
have done. However, Im not persuaded that this is the case. At the time, MO had no 
knowledge of whether Mr Bs appeal to DWP would succeed. In addition, MOs records show 
that it spoke to Mr B in June 2016 and agreed to his request that he keep the car for longer. 
Im satisfied that MO contacted Mr B as soon as it became aware that his allowance had 
stopped. And I think it acted fairly by allowing Mr B to retain the car for longer.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments that he wouldve preferred to have been contacted 
about the arrears sooner. I understand that it mustve been frustrating for Mr B to have his subsequent application for a car on the scheme declined. However, I cant see that Mr B 
ever contacted MO to let it know that his appeal had been successful and that his allowance 
had been backdated. MO has said that it isnt automatically notified by DWP about the 
outcome of every appeal. On balance, Im persuaded that MO didnt know that Mr Bs 
allowance had been reinstated until he applied for the scheme in 2019.
Taking everything into account, I dont think MO acted unfairly in asking Mr B to pay the 
arrears. The terms and conditions of the agreement clearly state that Mr B is responsible for 
hire payments during this period if his allowance is reinstated and backdated. From what Ive 
seen, Mr Bs allowance was backdated and hes had the benefit of this money and the use of 
the car during the same period.
Mr B has said that paying 50% of the arrears has caused him financial difficulty. I can see 
that Mr B discussed and agreed the payment arrangement with MO. If the arrangement 
wasnt affordable I dont think Mr B wouldve agreed to it. Mr B hasnt raised affordability as 
part of his original complaint to MO, so MO should be given the opportunity to investigate 
this as a new complaint if Mr B wishes to pursue this.
For the reasons Ive given Im uncle to uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman