DRN-3242449
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Capital Professional Limited trading as Ascot Lloyd, and predecessor 
businesses for which they take some responsibility, havent been monitoring her investments 
as she thinks they shouldve been doing. 
Mrs D is using a representative to bring her complaint. For ease I will refer to all actions as 
being those of Mrs D.
What happened
In mid 2020 Mrs D wrote to Ascot Lloyd saying she believed her investments had been 
transferred to them in 2018, but she hadnt had any communication about it. Mrs D thought 
Ascot Lloyd should be monitoring and watching over her investments and was concerned 
this wasnt happening. 
Ascot Lloyd said the business Mrs D had originally used for her investments had been 
purchased by another broking business and through a chain of acquisitions that business 
was eventually acquired by them. At each stage of these changes Mrs D shouldve received 
a letter explaining what was happening. Also each business wouldve written to the product 
providers letting them know of the change in financial advisory firm attached to each 
investment. Ascot Lloyd apologised if Mrs D didnt receive these letters.  
They explained to Mrs D that they received ongoing fund based commission payments, but 
this didnt entitle her to advice from them, and nor did it make her a client of theirs. If Mrs D 
wanted advice about her investments this could be provided, and any commission received 
would be offset against the cost of any ongoing advice. 
Ascot Lloyd also said that if Mrs D didnt want them attached to her investments she could 
speak to the product providers about having them removed as the advisory firm. They went 
on to say that any commission paid to them did not come out of her funds, so there had 
been no effect on her investments. 
Mrs D remained unhappy so brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. Our investigator thought Ascot Lloyd had acted 
under the terms and conditions as a servicing agent, and the commission payment didnt 
mean they needed to provide personalised advice. They were happy that Ascot Lloyds 
apologised for any letters not being received, and so didnt have to do anything more.
Mrs D disagreed with our investigator and provided further information about her complaint. 
Our investigator considered everything Mrs D provided but didnt think Ascot Lloyd was 
under any obligation to monitor the investments or provide advice. Because Mrs D remained 
unhappy the complaint has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
she feels about what happened. I want to assure Mrs D that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mrs D as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint. 
Where the information about what happened is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as 
some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on the balance of probabilities about what I 
think is most likely to have happened.
I think its also important to say that Ive considered the particular set of circumstances 
relating to Mrs D alone. There has been correspondence referencing other clients of the 
businesses, and legal agreements between those businesses; but this isnt something Im 
looking into. Ive looked at what happened to Mrs D to see if I think any mistakes were made. 
Its any effect on Mrs D from what happened, and Mrs D alone, that I have considered. 
Because of this I also wont be making a finding on any wider implications about the actions 
of Ascot Lloyd, or the predecessor businesses for which they have taken some 
responsibility.  
When complaining to Ascot Lloyd Mrs D said she thought her affairs were being 
watched/monitored but this is clearly not the case. When dealing with our investigator Mrs D 
said she believed that her investments were being monitored as they always had been and 
that her investment interests were being watched over. And this is what I will be 
concentrating on in my decision. I feel its important to use Mrs Ds own words here as there 
has been a lot of correspondence, some of which I think has strayed from the crux of the 
original complaint.
My starting point was to look and see if theres any evidence Ascot Lloyd, or the predecessor 
businesses, said they would watch or monitor the investments. And having looked at 
everything Im not persuaded there is any evidence of this. Mrs D might have been under the 
impression that was the case, but Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Ascot Lloyd, or 
the predecessor businesses for which they have taken some (but not all) responsibility, 
offered this as a service to her.  
Ive gone on to consider if I think Mrs D actually received the service of watching over or 
monitoring her investments as she said she expected. If this was the case it could mean that 
even if the businesses said they wouldnt offer the service, but if in fact they did, then 
perhaps Mrs D might have had a reasonable expectation that monitoring and watching was 
taking place. But looking at everything Ive not seen any persuasive evidence this service 
was ever provided. 
When complaining to Ascot Lloyd Mrs D says that a previous business used to forward 
copies and comments whenever investment companies issued updates. However to me the 
forwarding of information doesnt sound like receiving advice, nor do I think it indicates they 
were monitoring the investments at an individual level. It seems more likely to me that this 
was simply the passing on of relevant information, which wouldnt constitute the giving of 
advice.
Later Mrs D said the advice from a previous business tended to be passive. Mrs D says she didnt seek advice from them, but sometimes did raise queries. I havent seen anything to 
show that Mrs D raised any queries with Ascot Lloyd until the complaint was raised. Had a 
query been raised I wouldve expected Ascot Lloyd to provide the appropriate information.
I can see how a misunderstanding might have arisen due to the different financial jargon 
thats been used by the product provider, Ascot Lloyd, and the previous businesses. Looking 
through the documentation I can see words like servicing agent, client, and adviser. If any of 
this was unclear Mrs D couldve contacted Ascot Lloyd for clarification. 
There has been much correspondence about the commission paid to Ascot Lloyd and the 
other businesses. Mrs D has confirmed to us that commission is not the subject of the 
complaint, so this isnt something I will be discussing, or making a finding on. 
Ive considered the template copies of transfer letters which would have been provided by 
the various businesses throughout the chain of acquisitions. To paraphrase these letters, 
they say that Mrs D will receive the same level of service that she received from the previous 
businesses. And I think thats what happened. Ive not been persuaded, on balance, by any 
of the evidence that Mrs D was told any of the businesses would monitor her investments, 
and nor am I persuaded that any of them actually did that. So the level of service received 
remained the same over the chain of businesses.
Throughout the course of this complaint there has been much discussion about whether 
these letters were sent. Ascot Lloyd has apologised that they were unable to demonstrate 
that the letters were sent. This isnt surprising due to the chain of businesses involved and 
the different types of business mergers that happened. 
Even if I was persuaded that Ascot Lloyd and/or the previous businesses made errors by not 
watching over Mrs Ds investment like the should have, and for the sake of clarity I dont on 
balance think there have been any errors, the next step would be to consider any financial 
loss. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of a loss here. 
Mrs D has said the recent market turmoil has caused me much concern/anxiety and 
presumably loss, and that she may well have suffered detriment to the performance of her 
investments. But Ive not seen anything persuasive to show that what happened caused an 
actual financial loss to the investments. So whilst Mrs D might be upset that she didnt 
receive the letters, and she feels her investments werent being watched over, there doesnt 
seem to have been a financial impact because of what happened. So even if I was to think 
mistakes were made, I wouldnt be recommending any redress.
I also note Mrs D has been dealing with her investments directly with the product providers 
for transaction such as withdrawals. Correspondence to Mrs D from the product providers 
show that copies of letters about these transactions had been provided to the different 
businesses. So Mrs D was made aware there was still some kind of connection. Mrs D says 
she assumed this meant her investments were being monitored. Mrs D might have thought 
this, but Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that was the case. I think these letters were 
simply sent as confirmation of transactions on her investments. 
I also think it was always possible for Mrs D to contact Ascot Lloyd, or any of the 
predecessor businesses, if she thought the level of service wasnt what she expected over 
the years. And if Mrs D wasnt sure of which business to speak to, I think it reasonable she 
couldve spoken to the adviser from a previous business whom she is still seemingly in 
contact with to obtain updated contact information.
Having carefully considered all the information, and everything that happened, Im satisfied 
Ascot Lloyd acted fairly and reasonably in their relationship with Mrs D. Ascot Lloyd have also apologised as they couldnt demonstrate the required letters had been sent to Mrs D; 
which I think was the right thing to do. But I dont think they need to provide any 
compensation, because on balance Im not persuaded there were errors made, or that there 
was any financial loss. So I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman