DRN-3918275
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly recorded a fault claim on a motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in 2019. For the 
year from October 2021, Mrs H had the car insured on a comprehensive policy with Ageas.
Unfortunately, in December 2021, Mrs H reported that a third party had hit and damaged the 
car. Ageas paid for repair of damage to the car.
Ageas recorded a fault claim against Mrs H. She complained to Ageas about that.
By a final response dated late September 2022, Ageas turned down the complaint.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us without any delay.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Ageas had acted fairly in line with its obligations under the terms of the policy.
Ageas agreed with the investigators opinion.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
She wasn't sure where the car was hit due to shock.
There were witnesses to the incident, but she didn't get their details as the third party 
accepted liability.
When she called the third party to discuss the extent of the damage, the third party 
said someone else must have damaged her car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer may make an outlay on a claim by a policyholder, typically for the cost of repairs 
or the value of the policyholders vehicle. Its common practice for that insurer to record that 
claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers its outlay 
in full (typically from a third party or their insurer).
Any claim - especially a fault claim - is likely to increase a policyholders premium at the next 
renewal.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term that allows an insurer to decide how best to 
deal with a claim involving a third party. Ageas terms included the following:
In dealing with any claim under the terms of this policy, your insurer may:
Carry out the defence or settlement of any claim and choose the solicitor who will act 
for you in any legal action.
Take any legal action in your name, or the name of any other person covered by this 
policy.
I consider that the effect of that term was that  on an issue of the extent to which to pursue 
a claim or legal action against a third party  Ageas view would prevail over Mrs Hs view. I 
will consider whether Ageas applied that term fairly.
From the recording of Mrs Hs call to report the incident, Ageas noted her report of damage 
to the rear, side and front of the car. Incidentally, the recording doesnt support Mrs Hs 
recollection that she told Ageas that the third party had been aggressive.
From the recording of the third partys call, she only accepted responsibility for damage to a 
wheel arch. She disputed liability for other damage.
Ageas noted that there was no independent witness or video evidence of the incident.
The third partys insurer got an engineer to report on the damage to her vehicle. Ageas got 
an engineer to compare the nature and location of the damage to Mrs Hs car. Im satisfied 
that Ageas did a reasonable and proportionate investigation into the damage.
Ageas formed the opinion that the third party was unlikely to have caused all the damage to 
the car. Ageas made a decision that it wouldnt incur the risk and cost of court proceedings 
against the third party to try to recover its outlay. 
I accept that the fault claim is likely to cost Mrs H money in higher premiums. Nevertheless, I 
dont find that Ageas decision was unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct Ageas to change the way it has recorded the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman