DRN-2596453
The complaint
Miss S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
mishandled the ending of her Personal Contract Purchase (PCP).
What happened
In December 2015, Miss S entered into a four-year PCP for a new car. At the end of 
the agreement Miss S could either return the car, use the car as a part-exchange on 
a new agreement, (subject to equity being available in the car), or pay the 
outstanding balance (known as the balloon payment) and keep the car.
Miss S says that she didnt receive any letters from MBFS regarding her options when 
the agreement was coming towards its end date. She says she contacted the retailing 
dealership to ask about part-exchanging the car but discovered that it no longer offered 
this make of car. After some further research Miss S discovered that the new models of 
this make of car were no longer suitable for her.
In November 2019, Miss S contacted MBFS and enquired about paying off the balloon 
payment and it was confirmed she could spread this cost over more than one card. Miss 
S then arranged to take out a credit card to cover part of the due balloon payment.
Miss S rang MBFS three days before the PCP was to end to pay off the balloon payment. 
During this call Miss S was told that MBFS wouldnt accept payment by way of a credit 
card. It said that, as a responsible lender, it wouldnt accept credit to pay credit. Miss S 
said she wanted to raise a complaint as she hadnt been told this by the agent during her 
call in November 2019. A complaint was opened by MBFS.
Miss S then visited another dealership and was able to arrange to part-exchange the car 
and enter into a new financial agreement for another car. Miss S paid the deposit on this 
car with her credit card. 
Miss S contacted MBFS and queried why it had taken a payment in December 2019 as 
the agreement was going to be settled by the dealership. She says she was told this 
amount would be repaid to her. Miss S says that this payment was never made by MBFS.
MBFS didnt uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said that, as a responsible lender and, in line 
with the FCAs principle of Treating Customers Fairly, it didnt accept payment by credit 
card to settle an outstanding balance on an existing credit agreement. MBFS also said 
the agent hadnt informed Miss S that she couldnt use this method because Miss S 
hadnt asked that question, so it hadnt come up during their discussion.
MBFS also said that the options letter hadnt been received by Miss S as she hadnt 
updated it with her address but had notified the retailing dealership which was a separate 
entity.
Miss S was unhappy at MBFSs response and complained to this service. She said it 
should have made it clear to her that paying the balloon payment wasnt possible with a 
credit card, as this had left her with very little time to sort out payment for the car and had 
caused her unnecessary distress. She said that MBFS had informed her she would have 
the December payment reimbursed, but then failed to do so.
Our investigator didnt recommend Miss Ss complaint should be upheld as he didnt think 
MBFS had acted unfairly. He said that, although he understood it would be frustrating for 
Miss S not to be able to use her credit card to pay the balloon payment, this was a policy 
decision by MBFS. And this service couldnt require MBFS to accept that payment 
method. It was a matter for the retailer if they were happy to accept credit card payments 
as a deposit on a new agreement.
As per the agreements terms and conditions, the balloon payment fell due on the day 
the PCP ended, and the investigator said it wasnt possible for a payment plan to have 
been arranged with Miss S by MBFS to clear this amount.
In regard to the final monthly instalment, our investigator said that this amount had been 
correctly taken by MBFS as the PCP had reached maturity, and so all payments under 
the agreement had fallen due. He said that the agent may have given her mis-information 
about the payment being reimbursed, but it had remained payable.
Miss S disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said it was important to listen to 
the calls between herself and MBFS, and that she had been told she would have an 
extension period to pay the balloon payment under the agreement, but this hadnt been 
provided. She also says that MBFS never raised with her alternative options, other than 
clearing the balloon payment. Miss S said she hadnt been treated fairly by MBFS.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
I had been able to listen to the calls between Miss S and MBFS that had taken place in 
December 2019. I hadnt been provided with the November 2019 call when Miss S had 
first made enquiries about paying off the balloon payment. However, I thought I was able 
to deal with this complaint fairly without that, as it was agreed Miss S wasnt told by the 
agent that payment by a credit card would be acceptable. 
Miss S said that MBFS hadnt provided her with an options letter, nor had it raised what 
options she had during the phone calls she had with it. Id seen Miss S had moved 
address during the life of the agreement and MBFS said she hadnt updated her details 
directly with them, but only with the retailing dealership so, if the letter had been sent, it 
would appear unlikely Miss S would have received it. I didnt think I could hold MBFS 
responsible for that as Miss S was under an obligation to ensure her details were correct 
with MBFS.
However, even if the letter wasnt sent, I thought the agreement was clear that at the end 
of its term Miss S had an option to make the final outstanding payment, or return he car, 
so I didnt think the lack of being provided with this information meant Miss S wouldnt 
reasonably be expected to know what the options were. Miss S also said during her calls 
with MBFS that it didnt raise the other options with her, which had been unfair. But, 
listening to the calls that had been provided, Miss S had only raised how to pay the 
balloon payment and that was what was then discussed. I wasnt surprised that the agents 
hadnt raised with her handing the car back, as that didnt appear to be what she had 
wanted. I didnt think there was any unfairness here on the part of MBFS.
Miss S complained that it was unfair of MBFS not to have informed her in advance that 
payment of the balloon payment, under the PCP, wouldnt be accepted if made by a credit card. MBFS said this was a policy decision, as it would be irresponsible to allow 
credit to be paid off with credit. Miss S queried why this was permissible when paying a 
deposit on a car.
It didnt appear to be disputed that Miss S wasnt told credit card payments werent an 
acceptable method of payment in these circumstances, when she spoke to an agent in 
November 2019. However, I thought it was also accepted that Miss S never raised that 
she wanted to use this method to clear the balloon payment. I didnt think it wa unusual for 
credit providers to have the same policy as MBFS regarding credit card payments being 
used to clear balances on credit agreements, so I didnt agree that MBFS was under an 
obligation to ensure Miss S was aware of its policy. I accepted credit card payments were 
acceptable for making deposit payments, but this was a matter for the retailer and was 
separate to the taking out of the credit. I also accepted it was a shock for Miss S, and that 
she was distressed when she was told, but I couldnt say that MBFS wasnt entitled to 
have made this business decision, or that it was irresponsible of it to have done so. As 
MBFS had a policy of not accepting credit card payments to pay the outstanding balances 
of credit agreements, I couldnt say it acted unfairly in declining to do so for Miss S.
Miss S said that MBFS had offered to suspend the balloon payment until her complaint 
was resolved. But I had listened to the call where this was discussed, and I thought Miss 
S might have misunderstood what was said. The agent was clear that no extension could 
be given as to when the balloon payment fell due, as this was set by the terms and 
conditions of the PCP as the day the agreement ended. However, if that payment was not 
made and Miss S raised a formal complaint then action over the non-payment would be 
suspended until the complaint had been resolved with no impact on Miss Ss credit record. 
Id seen that, in any event, when the agreement ended Miss S had used the car in part 
exchange for another vehicle and the balloon payment was cleared by the dealership 
involved in this deal. So, I didnt think MBFS had made any offers to Miss S that it then 
didnt follow through with.
Miss S was unhappy that having been told the December 2019 instalment for the car 
would be reimbursed, she wasnt then repaid. Id listened to this call and agreed she was 
told this payment would be returned to her, but I thought the agent believed the 
agreement was being settled by the dealership that was providing the other car to Miss 
S, rather than the agreement was reaching its natural end. If the PCP had been settled 
and terminated before the end date of agreement, then reimbursement would have fallen 
due, but that wasnt what happened here. The agreement ended on its set termination 
date and, under the terms and conditions of the PCP, all monthly instalments fell due so 
MBFS hadnt acted unfairly by taking this payment, and Miss S hadnt paid any more than 
she had agreed to when signing the PCP.
However, I thought the agent should have realised that the end date of agreement was 
very close and so it was unlikely it would be settled early and so could have informed Miss 
S that if the agreement came to a natural end then under the terms and conditions all 
payments would be due. Miss S was given the expectation of a reimbursement. However, 
this payment was correctly taken and although it was disappointing for Miss S not to get it 
back it hadnt actually caused her any a financial detriment. This payment was due to be 
made under the terms of the PCP. Therefore, I couldnt reasonably say it was fair for her 
to receive back a payment she had been required to make.
So, for the reasons set out above, I wasnt intending to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
MBFS says it agrees with my provisional view but Miss S says she disagrees. Miss S says it 
isnt fair that I have only listened to one call and I should listen to the others as they are 
important. In particular Miss S says I should listen to the call where her compalint is formally logged and a hold on proceedings was discussed.  
Miss S also says that her agreement was settled the day before the agreement ended 
though this was a Sunday. She says its unfair she is penalised for this by not being 
reimbursed this monthyl instalment. Miss S also says she had the car MOTd which was an 
additional unnecessary expense as she didnt then keep it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I apologise if my provisional decision had been unclear to Miss S as to the number of calls I 
had listened to. But I am able to confirm I had been provided with copies of all her calls 
made in December. The only call that wasnt provided was the one in November when the 
paying off of the balloon payment had been discussed. As it was agreed that payment by 
credit card being an acceptable way to clear the outstanding balloon payment hadnt been 
raised in this call I was satisfied it wasnt essential to hear it. I thought I could reach a fair 
decision without it and I am still of that view. I dont think that particular call will add to the 
evidence I have already received and reviewed.
In regard to the call during which Miss Ss complaint was logged and holding action on the 
balloon payment was discussed, I have listened carefully to this and I still think Miss S had 
misunderstood what was said. The agent was discussing with her putting a hold on any 
action to collect the balloon payment should the deadline pass while her complaint was 
outstanding. I think the agent was clear that the balloon payment would still fall due on the 
end date of the agreement. What was discussed was the impact on her credit file if this 
payment wasnt made while her complaint was being investigated. I dont agree that MBFS 
said Miss S could have extra time to clear the outstanding balloon payment.
I appreciate Miss S believed that the dealership would pass on her change of address to 
MBFS, but it was her responsibility to ensure MBFS had the correct contact details. So, I 
cant hold MBFS responsible for not having the correct contact details for Miss S. I accept 
that it was unlikely she received the options letter that MBFS says it sent about the choices 
she had when the agreement was ending. However, as set out above, I havent changed my 
view that, even without this letter, Miss S hadnt been given the necessary information about 
what she could do at the end of the agreement and I think its reasonable to consider Miss S 
should have been aware of the options available to her.
Miss S says it was unfair that during the phone calls her other options werent discussed with 
her but, having listened to those calls, I dont think Miss S ever raised what else she could 
do. She was concentrating on making the balloon payment and the agents discussed that 
with her. I dont think I would reasonably expect MBFS to proactively raise with Miss S 
handing the car back or trading it in if she had contacted it to discuss clearing the balloon 
payment.
Miss S says its unfair she has been penalised for trading the car in on a Sunday. But this 
isnt a working day, so the settlement wasnt paid by the dealership until the following day 
when the agreement had matured. I dont think MBFS has acted unfairly by considering the 
agreement had come to a natural end. I think this would be the usual practice in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate Miss S was given an expectation that the last instalment would be reimbursed, 
and I think the agent should have looked at the end date of the agreement with Miss S when 
discussing the settlement process with her. However, I cant say this payment hadnt fallen 
due under the agreement and so I dont think Miss S has suffered a financial detriment by paying it. She had agreed to make all the payments under the agreement if it reached its 
expiry date which is what happened.
Miss S has raised paying for an MOT unnecessarily as she didnt, in the end, keep the car. I 
cant reasonably hold MBFS responsible for that as it was her choice when to have this 
carried out. Under the agreement it was Miss Ss responsibility to have the car serviced and 
MOTd as and when required. Its also possible, that as the car had an up to date MOT, this 
was reflected in the trade-in value.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Miss S I am not upholding her 
complaint as I dont think MBFS has acted unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman