DRN-2249905
The complaint
Mr V complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) declined his motor 
insurance claim and has accused him of fraud.
What happened
Mr V was involved in a road traffic collision with another vehicle in December 2018. He 
contacted Admiral to make a claim under his car insurance policy after his vehicle was hit 
from behind by a third party.
Admiral investigated the claim and said it believed Mr V had breached the fraud condition in 
the policy by giving information about the collision which was inconsistent with the account of 
the third party and an independent witness. It voided Mr Vs policy, saying it would keep the 
premiums paid, and passed his details to fraud prevention agencies. It has also demanded 
payment of its costs and said it wont insure Mr V in future.
Mr V raised a complaint, denying hed done anything fraudulent. Admiral said, among other 
things, that it was entitled to take the action it did due to the contradictory statements Mr V 
had himself given, the independent witness evidence which provided a different version of 
events to those Mr V had communicated to Admiral, and the clear fraud terms in Mr Vs 
policy. Mr V remained unhappy with Admirals response and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Admiral had acted unreasonably. 
Mr V disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Vs policy says if a policyholder recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information, or 
makes a false, fraudulent or exaggerated claim, Admiral can decline the claim in its entirety, 
cancel the policy and seek its costs. The terms also explain it will share details with fraud 
prevention agencies. It isnt for me to decide whether Mr Vs claim was fraudulent or not. 
Instead, it is for me to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably when relying 
on the policys fraud condition, based on the information it has. So, Admiral needs to show 
that a false statement was given to it by the policyholder and that based on its investigations, 
it was therefore reasonable for it to take the steps its taken.
Mr V has denied braking for no reason. Hes said there was a car in front of him which 
braked suddenly, forcing him to do the same. Whilst I accept what Mr V says about English 
not being his first language, in the video footage Ive seen from the scene of the accident, 
Mr V only mentions slowing down to change lanes. He doesnt mention slowing down due to 
there being another vehicle in front of him. Mr V says he didnt mention that car in the video 
footage, because he thinks it wouldve been obvious to the third party driver that there was 
another car in front of him causing him to slow down. But in the video the other driver seems 
to have no idea why Mr V stopped so suddenly  repeatedly asking Mr V why he did. Mr V 
says the other party was aggressive and suggests the other driver may have deliberately 
omitted mentioning another car for the purposes of the video. Im not persuaded by this, 
because the independent witness evidence also shows that there was apparently no reason 
for Mr V to stop his car suddenly. So the omission from the video evidence of this important 
factor in why the collision occurred was unusual in my view. And both the third partys and 
independent witnesss statements make no mention of a vehicle in front of Mr Vs. I therefore 
consider Admiral acted fairly by noting the omission as a concern and as a contradiction  
when Mr V later said there had been another car in front of him which braked suddenly. 
Im also not persuaded by Mr Vs assertion that the witness evidence shouldnt be relied on 
because the witness has not accurately described the exit from which Mr Vs vehicle entered 
the roundabout. Even if the independent witness didnt see Mr Vs car pass in front of his, he 
has been able to describe the actual collision in some detail. And Im satisfied that Admiral 
has performed suitable checks on both the third party driver and the independent witness to 
see if any prior connections can be found between them. So I think its fair for Admiral to rely 
on the independent witnesss evidence. 
I do not, however, believe Admiral has been able to show that Mr V deliberately induced the 
collision. That is another serious accusation which requires strong supporting evidence. But 
the evidence only shows that Mr Vs account changed from slowing down to change lanes, 
to slowing down because a car in front of him stopped. It does not, in my view, show that 
Mr V caused the accident deliberately by slamming on his brakes, as hes been accused of 
doing. He didnt make an injury claim, nor was there a passenger in his vehicle at the time of 
the collision. Admirals evidence shows Mr V appeared credible when relaying his account at 
interview and there was no reason to suspect he deliberately induced the incident. 
That being said, and having considered the inconsistencies Admiral has raised, as well as 
Mr Vs and his solicitors responses to those inconsistencies, Im persuaded that Admiral 
acted fairly and reasonably by concluding that the evidence, on balance, supports a breach 
of the fraud condition. It therefore follows that Im satisfied Admiral hasnt treated Mr V 
unfairly by declining his claim, cancelling his policy, seeking its costs and sharing details with 
fraud prevention agencies.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr V but my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman