DRN-2015168
 
The complaint
Mr C complains about the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc handled matters after his credit 
card was used to make an unauthorised payment.
What happened
In October 2018 Mr C's HSBC credit card was used to make a payment which, with a fee for 
a non-sterling payment, totalled just over £1,000. Mr C said he hadn't made or authorised 
the payment, and in January 2019 HSBC applied a temporary credit to Mr C's account while 
it investigated further. It re-debited the account about a month later, when it was unable to 
contact Mr C by telephone to discuss what had happened. Mr C says he was abroad and 
unable to make or receive calls, but that HSBC was unwilling to use a different means of 
communication.
Some moths later - in December 2019 - HSBC did agree to refund the payment and re-
applied the credit to Mr C's account. It seems there's no dispute about the initial payment - 
Mr C didn't make it or allow anyone else to make it. HSBC also acknowledged that it hadn't 
handled things as well as it could have done and made a payment of £300 to Mr C in 
recognition of that.
Mr C remained unhappy however. He didn't believe the £300 payment went far enough and 
noted as well that the refund didn't include interest which had been charged on the 
unauthorised payment. He referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators 
began to look at it.
Mr C and HSBC were unable to agree the correct figure for the refund of interest; 
HSBC acknowledged that its initial calculation (of under £50) had been incorrect and said 
that the correct figure was just over £100. Mr C's calculations produced a figure of around 
£150. However, by the beginning of July 2020 HSBC had made a series of payments 
totalling £162.98 to Mr C's account. It hadn't explained those payments to Mr C, as it wanted 
to process then before the figures changed again. But, after it made the payments, it said it 
thought they were a little too high - but nevertheless agreed to leave things as they were. 
In addition the bank offered to pay Mr C a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to 
which he'd been put.
The investigator took the view that HSBC's offer, when taken together with the payments 
that it had already made, was a fair one. She wasn't minded to suggest that it increase that 
offer of settlement.
Mr C didn't accept that. He thought that HSBC should provide a full explanation of how it 
reached the figure of £162.98. It wasn't, he said, a figure he had provided and it appeared to 
have been calculated differently from earlier offers the bank had made. He asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm required by law and by the rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service 
operates to determine Mr C's complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I have therefore considered not only the further 
compensation which HSBC has offered (that is, £200), but also the refunds and 
compensation it's already paid. If, overall, the combination of what the bank has done and 
offered to do is, in my view, fair, I won't ask it to do any more.
Mr C is concerned that the bank hasn't provided details of its calculations of interest. Since, 
however, it's paid him more than it believes it should have done and more than he calculated 
was due, I don't believe that's necessary. Interest was calculated daily and on the 
unauthorised payment would have amounted to just over 46p a day. As I've explained, 
HSBC made a number of interest refunds, but on any basis the total sum paid exceeds the 
daily rate multiplied by the number of days on which the unauthorised payment was on Mr 
C's account.
In addition, HSBC has already paid Mr C £300 and has offered a further £200 in recognition 
of the inconvenience to which he's been put. I agree with him that the bank's handling of this 
matter hasn't been satisfactory. Its unwillingness to be flexible in the way it corresponded 
with him and its inconsistent explanations of interest calculations will have caused him 
inconvenience and distress. Deciding appropriate compensation for non-financial loss isn't 
an exact science, but I agree with the investigator that, when taken with the £300 Mr C has 
already received, an additional £200 is fair.
Putting things right
Taken as a whole, therefore, I believe that HSBC has now done enough to resolve Mr C's 
complaint in a manner that's fair and reasonable. I shall however make an award in respect 
of the £200 it's now offered, so that Mr C can enforce it should he need to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr C's complaint, HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay 
him £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman