DRN-2746446
The complaint
Mr H complains, on his late wifes behalf, about Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds 
(Prudential) failure to correctly apply tax relief to her past pension contributions.   
What happened
The late Mrs H took out a personal pension plan (PPP) with Prudential in October 1990. She 
agreed to make monthly contributions of £75 but after April 1992 these werent collected  
along with the contributions Mr H had agreed to make to his own PPP.  
 
A complaint was made about the missed premiums in 1999 which was eventually considered 
by an ombudsman at the time and upheld. Prudential was told to ensure Mr and Mrs Hs 
PPPs were returned to the position they would have been in had the premiums been paid on 
the appropriate dates. I understand that these premiums were allocated on the appropriate 
dates, but no tax relief was added to the premiums.
In January 2020, following Mrs Hs death in October 2019, Mr H received the benefits 
payable from her pension  which amounted to £84,345.35. He had received a statement of 
the pension account and when reading through it, he became aware that the arrears had 
been credited net  and so therefore the tax relief that was due on the missed premiums 
hadnt been applied to the policy. 
So Mr H complained to Prudential that as it had paid the settlement contributions as a lump 
sum into the plan  instead of through monthly contributions, Mrs H may have missed out on 
the available tax relief. Prudential demonstrated that all available tax relief had been added 
to the plan after October 2001, but confirmed that before 2001 all payments to the late 
Mrs Hs policy had been made without the deduction of tax relief (on a gross basis). It 
apologised for its overall level of service and offered £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience it had caused. 
Mr H didnt accept the outcome so he brought his complaint to us, where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter  but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
said he was satisfied that the late Mrs Hs plan had been returned to the position it should 
have been in including the provision of tax relief that Prudential was able to include after 
2001 when tax relief regulation was updated. But he said that the responsibility to claim tax 
relief that would have been due on premiums between April 1992 and January 1999 lay with 
the late Mrs H, as she had been self-employed. He explained that during this period the self-
employed were required to claim their own tax relief through their annual tax returns  which 
wasnt something Prudential would have been able to do.
So he didnt think Prudential had done anything wrong and he thought the £200 it offered the 
late Mrs Hs estate  for the poor service it said it had provided by not responding to her 
queries, was fair and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said tax relief was due on the contributions when they were made  
not when they were due to be paid. So he thought it would have been wrong for the late 
Mrs H to claim tax relief when she hadnt made contributions. He said that it wasnt now 
possible for her to claim the lost tax relief so Prudential ought to make good her financial 
loss.   
The investigator made the following points in response:
He agreed that it would be unreasonable to expect the late Mrs H to have claimed tax 
reliefs on premiums which hadnt been paid.
But when the premiums were restored in 1999 following the upheld complaint, they 
should have been included in any tax assessment for that year. 
And even though premiums hadnt been collected previously, the late Mrs H wasnt 
aware of that and so ought to have been trying to reclaim tax relief as was explained 
and set out in the original members scheme booklet. 
This would have meant the non-collection of premiums would have come to light and 
the matter would have been resolved soon after.
He provided the relevant extract from the scheme members booklet highlighting the 
difference in how tax relief is claimed for both employees and the self-employed.
He said he would only ask Prudential to make up the lost tax relief if he had seen 
evidence that the late Mrs H had previously been claiming it but had stopped due to 
an error from Prudential  which wasnt the case here.
But after further communications Mr H didnt accept the outcome, although he said wed 
misunderstood the different forms of tax relief. He said that basic tax relief was automatically 
received by the pension scheme provider, so a claim with HMRC was only necessary if 
higher rate tax relief applied and the extra 20% needed to be claimed  which wasnt the 
case here. He also explained that during this time he had been unemployed and claiming 
sickness benefit while Mrs H received only a small income from her business  which meant 
she wouldnt have incurred a tax liability. 
So, in addition to the fact that the PPP premiums had been paid by his late mother in law, 
there was no additional tax relief that needed to be claimed. He asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator. Ive seen how strongly Mr H feels about 
this matter and Ive some sympathy for the position he now finds himself in following the 
death of his wife. But I dont think Prudential should have to make up the lost pension 
premium tax relief  so Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no dispute here that Mr and Mrs H were disadvantaged up to 1999 when previous 
premiums werent allocated to their pension plans. And Ive seen how Prudential was told to 
put Mr and Mrs H back into the position they would have been had the premiums been paid 
and allocated on the appropriate dates. 
So the only matter which now remains from Mr Hs complaint, following Mrs Hs unfortunate 
death, is that tax relief wasnt added to those missed premiums. 
Mr H believes that the value of his late wifes plan has been understated by around £20,000 
which he thinks Prudential should make up.  This decision is solely about the missing tax 
relief that hasnt been applied to the late Mrs Hs pension plan and who was responsible for 
claiming that relief. 
The late Mrs H was self-employed  Mr H has confirmed that she ran her own small 
business. This was her status when she began to make contributions to a PPP with Prudential in 1990. Prior to the subsequent change in legislation during 2001, the self-
employed made gross pension contributions from their normal earned income. These 
contributions then needed to be included in a tax return as an expense, which meant HMRC 
would then calculate any relief due, at whatever the marginal rate was, to reduce the overall 
tax bill. 
So it wouldnt have been appropriate for Prudential to claim the relief on the late Mrs Hs 
behalf as she hadnt paid tax on the premiums at the point she made them. Indeed, 
Prudential wasnt in a position to claim back anything on Mrs Hs behalf. But I think it did 
have a responsibility to make her aware of that situation  which I think it did through two 
pieces of documentation.
The original PPP scheme members booklet, which was available to Mrs H when she took 
out the plan, stated that, if you are self-employed you pay premiums gross. These 
premiums are an allowable charge giving tax relief on earned income at the highest rate(s) 
of tax you pay. 
And Ive also seen a copy of an SEPC form which was issued to scheme members and 
which gave them the information contained within to send to HMRC for claiming tax relief 
purposes. So Im satisfied that Prudential did make Mrs H aware at the time of the 
requirement for her to claim tax relief on her pension contributions herself. But theres no 
evidence to suggest that she did attempt to claim the tax relief during the first year or so 
when her contributions were made, or that she tried to claim tax relief during the period that 
the contributions were unallocated. The late Mrs H was unaware during that time that 
contributions werent being allocated, so I would still have expected her to take the 
necessary course of action to ensure tax relief was claimed  as confirmed in the member 
booklet.
And in 2001 Prudential sent the late Mrs H a letter which explained the change to the way 
contributions were paid and applied for the self-employed. The letter said that, at the 
moment, being self-employed, you pay the gross payment each month and claim the tax 
relief when you send in your annual tax return to the inland revenue. After 6 April 2001, this 
will change. After 6 April 2001 as a self-employed person, you will pay the net amount each 
month and Prudential will claim basic tax relief on your behalf, adding it to your net payment 
to produce your gross payment.     
So, while this changed things as the late Mrs H no longer had to claim the tax relief on her 
contributions, it ought to have alerted to the fact that she hadnt previously made a claim for 
tax relief. And because Prudential had applied all the missing premiums in 1999, the late 
Mrs H could have inserted all that information into the tax assessment she would have 
received after April 2001 and could have reclaimed all of the available relief. This would also 
have ensured that all the premiums which hadnt been applied and the requisite tax relief 
were claimed and added to the policy at that time  some 19 years before Mr H had to bring 
the complaint in 2020.
Mr H says that he and the late Mrs Hs financial position, alongside the fact that his late 
mother in law had funded the pensions herself, meant that no claim for tax relief was ever 
required. He believed that Prudential automatically reclaimed basic tax relief from HMRC, 
and a further request from the late Mrs H would have only been required to claim higher rate 
tax relief for example. 
But as Ive explained that wasnt the position. The self-employed were required to claim back 
all tax relief, not just any additional relief. Prudential wasnt able to make a claim for the late Mrs H, it was for her to do through her tax return, and it wouldnt be fair to ask Prudential to 
make up for that unclaimed tax relief now. 
I have also considered whether Prudential could have done more to encourage the late 
Mrs H to ensure she claimed the tax relief. Ive taken into account that for a number of years 
no contributions were applied to her plan and were subsequently applied as a compensatory 
lump sum, although they were applied according to the date each contribution should have 
been made. But Mr Hs evidence would suggest that the late Mrs H had no reason to claim 
tax relief and wouldnt have done so in any case. And theres no evidence that she ever 
made any application to claim the basic rate tax relief, so its difficult for me to conclude that 
she would have applied for the tax relief in 2001 or even at a later date.
But even if I am wrong in my assumption here, Im satisfied that Prudential did make the late 
Mrs H aware of her responsibility to make a claim as a self-employed person. While 
Mr H thinks it should have done more to either make the late Mrs H aware of her 
responsibility or even to make a claim for the basic rate tax relief from HMRC itself, I think 
Prudential acted reasonably here and I dont think its responsible for the loss of the tax 
relief. 
I can understand Mr H had to bring this complaint, which was first begun by his late wife, at a 
very difficult time for him. And I dont underestimate how important this is to him. But I at 
least hope my investigation and explanation of things might bring him some closure on the 
matter. 
But ultimately, I think it was the late Mrs Hs responsibility, being self-employed, to claim the 
basic rate tax relief available on her gross pension contributions even when they were 
applied to the PPP in 1999 having been missed previously by Prudential.  And I think 
Prudential was responsible for making her aware of that fact, which I think it did both at the 
point of sale through its scheme booklet and subsequently in 2001 through a letter it sent to 
all policyholders when regulations changed. 
Theres no evidence that the late Mrs H ever tried to claim back her tax relief, which I would 
need to see in order to support the claim that she would have done so at a later date if made 
aware. So Im not going to tell Prudential to make up the shortfall in the plans value as a 
result of the missing tax relief. 
I note that Prudential has offered the late Mrs Hs estate £200 for any distress and 
inconvenience caused by its response to the initial complaint. In the circumstances I think 
thats a fair and reasonable offer and I dont think it needs to go any further. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold this complaint brought by Mr H on behalf of the 
estate of the late Mrs H. 
I will leave it up to Mr H to decide if he wishes to accept Prudentials offer of £200, if it hasnt 
already been paid, regarding its response to the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman