DRN-4060605
The complaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Creation Financial Services Limited, who Ill call Creation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Creation, but I think this car wasnt supplied in a satisfactory 
condition and they should therefore put things right for Mr D. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Creation, who are also the 
supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr D. The car here was about 
three years old and had already completed about 30,000 miles. So, Id expect it to have 
some limited wear and tear and not to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a 
new car.
The advert for the car said it was supplied with a Full Audi Service History, but I dont think 
that was the case as the Audi technicians report says All wheel drive coupling oil change 
was due 07/21 but there is no record of the oil change on ELSA which is a repair and 
service software used by the main dealerships.
Whilst Creation have suggested the oil change wasnt mandatory, I havent been provided 
with any further proof of that, and it seems unlikely a service regime would provide an 
optional programme as I cant see how that would serve much purpose.
So, I think this car was misrepresented to Mr D as he was given a false statement of fact 
about the service condition, and I think that would be likely to be a significant reason why 
hed have been interested in proceeding with the deal. 
I also think the car was of unsatisfactory quality because I dont think the differential was 
durable. It seems from online research and information Ive gathered from internal experts, 
that differentials are expected to last the lifetime of a car with regular maintenance and oil 
changes, and thats clearly not been the case here. 
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives the business an opportunity to fix a fault that is present when 
the car was supplied, and I think that would be the most reasonable solution here. But as the 
car has already been repaired I think it would be fair for Creation to refund the cost of the 
repair. Mr D has provided this Service with evidence that he paid £2,200 for the replacement 
differential. Hes not been able to evidence the labour costs of the repair. So, I think Creation 
should therefore refund the cost he has evidenced, and theyll need to add interest to the 
refund as Mr D has been deprived of the money.
Mr D appears not to have been able to use the car from 22 September 2022 to 25 November 
2022 and its not fair for him to have been paying for a car that was not available to him due 
to a quality problem. Creation should therefore refund any finance instalments that have 
been paid during that period and they will, again, need to add interest to the refund.
Mr D has also been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes explained hes had difficulty with 
child arrangements, has had to use alternative transport, and has had to get the car to the 
dealership for the fault to be diagnosed. Hes also had to escalate his complaint to this 
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think 
Creation should pay him £250 in compensation. I can see our investigators view on 
compensation was a little confusing, as in the body of her view she suggested a payment of 
£250 was fair but she then went on to suggest a £200 payment. For clarity, Im persuaded 
that £250 is reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Creation Financial Services 
Limited to:
Refund the £2,200 Mr D paid for the replacement differential and add 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of payment (21 November 2022) until the date of 
settlement.  
Refund any rentals paid from 22 September 2022 to 25 November 2022 (inclusive). 
Waive any that were due and were not paid in that period. Add 8% simple interest 
per year to any refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
Remove any adverse information they may have reported to Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to this issue.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman