DRN-1323949
The complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of T, a limited company, that National Westminster Bank Plc wont 
agree to his proposed plan to repay a debt.
What happened
Mr J is the sole director of T. Ts business account with NatWest had an overdraft facility for 
£175,000. In 2018 discussions began about how this debt was going to be repaid. Initially 
the plan was for Mr J to sell a property and pay the debt from the proceeds of the sale, but 
he changed his mind when the market was affected by Brexit. Instead Mr J repeatedly asked 
NatWest if he could pay the debt by taking out a new loan, which he would then repay in 
monthly payments over the next ten years. NatWest refused, and so Mr J complained. When 
NatWest refused to change its position, Mr J brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf 
of his company. He argued that NatWest was being unreasonable and stubborn.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He reviewed the history of the negotiations 
between the parties, and found that NatWest had repeatedly extended its deadline for 
repayment to give Mr J more time to come up with alternative proposals. He did not agree 
that NatWest had been unreasonable when it had declined to allow ten years for repayment.
Mr J asked for an ombudsmans decision. He insisted that his proposal was fair. He also 
wished to complain about the personal guarantees he had given for the companys loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cannot consider Mr Js complaint about the personal guarantees, because the Financial 
Ombudsman Service does not have jurisdiction to consider that issue. Our jurisdiction is set 
out in rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority, and although a change to the rules in 
2019 means that we now can consider such complaints, that change was not retrospective  
it only applies to guarantees executed after the rules were changed.
I do not agree that NatWest was obliged to agree to Mr Js offer to repay the debt by taking 
out a ten year loan. NatWest repeatedly allowed him more time to find other ways to pay the 
debt, so I dont agree that it was deliberately unhelpful or aggressive, as he alleges. (The 
detailed history has already been set out in the investigators opinion, so I need not repeat it 
all here.) But eventually, when it was clear that agreement on a way forward was not going 
to be reached, the bank was entitled to stop putting the matter off any longer, and to send 
the account to recoveries, and to begin the collections process.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, on behalf of 
T, to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.  
Richard Wood
Ombudsman