DRN-3963333
The complaint
Mr B complains that Stagemount Limited, trading as Quid Market, lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from Quid Markets records, here is a brief loan table. 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 17/09/2018 29/11/2018 3 £300.00 £131.48
2 11/12/2018 25/04/2019 5 £300.00 £100.50
3 04/05/2019 outstanding 6 £700.00 £221.62
Loan 3 remains outstanding and the total due to be repaid on that loan was £1,329.72. Mr B 
has paid about £886 to date leaving around £443 to pay. The interest on that loan was due 
to have been £629.72. 
After Mr B had complained, Quid Market did a detailed final response letter (FRL) dated 
5 April 2022 in which it explained that it was content to make an offer to resolve the 
complaint: 
However, and as a gesture of goodwill, I am offering to waive the remaining 
contractual interest of £443.24 and close the loan
Our adjudicator did not think that Quid Market needed to do more than it had already offered 
in its FRL. We have checked and it seems that this offer is still open.
Mr B was not content with our adjudicators view about that being a satisfactory outcome. 
His main reason for saying that Quid Market ought never to have lent to him was the poor 
state of his credit history  including what he says was an Individual Voluntary Arrangement 
(IVA) from March 2016 followed by bankruptcy from March 2017 to March 2018. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Quid Market had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Quid Markets checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Quid Market should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of 
time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. 
Quid Market was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
These were loans for modest sums over relatively short terms and were repayable at just 
over £131 and £100 a month. Mr Bs applications gave no indication that he was going to 
have trouble affording them as he had declared his income to be £1,800 and £1,900 a month 
(after tax) respectively, and had declared his outgoings as much less than that at £600 each 
month. 
Quid Market did not have to obtain a credit search but it did. And it did contain some adverse 
information but lenders such as this are used to receiving applications from individuals who 
may have credit files with adverse entries. 
The positive elements about the credit file were that Mr B had been approved for loans and 
had successfully paid them off between March and June 2018. And when it was assessing 
loan 2, Mr B had paid off the first Quid Market loan on time and without incident. Loans 1 
and 2 were applied for some months after he had obtained those other loans. 
Mr B has made much about the fact that he was insolvent and had only been released from 
bankruptcy about six months before he applied to Quid Market for the first loan. But neither of the two credit searches carried out in September and December 2018 showed this on his 
record. And I would have expected that an entry of such a nature and which is a public 
record would have appeared. 
Mr B has sent to us screenshots for a person with a similar name. No date of birth is shown. 
And the address in the screenshot was different to the one we hold for Mr B. But Mr Bs 
credit searches provided by Quid Market indicate that Mr B was on the Electoral Roll at his 
current address hes given to us from 2014. And I have evidence from another complaint file 
we have with Mr B and another credit search that the address Mr B has given us now was 
where he lived in 2016. And it was not the address on the screenshot showing that there had 
been any bankruptcy in March 2017. And so, the addresses do not match up. The email we 
have from the Accountant in Bankruptcy about Mr B gives the wrong dates.  
I have carried out searches on the Scottish Insolvency Register and I have searched The 
Gazette and not been able to find any information about Mr B. 
It may have been that Mr B was in bankruptcy (and in the IVA) when at a different address, 
but the search Quid Market did means I consider it appropriate that it was able to rely on the 
results it was given which showed no insolvency. 
So, the reason I explain this is that even if Quid Market had any suspicion about the 
solvency or otherwise of Mr B (which from the credit searches it did it would not have had), it 
seems that it was not likely Quid Market would have found any records of those two events  
the IVA or the bankruptcy  even if it had done additional searches such as the ones I have 
carried out. I used both addresses  the one Mr B has given to us and the one that appears 
on one of the screenshots Mr B has sent to us.  
Unless Mr B had informed Quid Market about these elements in his credit history I would not 
expect it to have known of them. Ive no evidence in Mr Bs application data that he informed 
Quid Market of this.
Loan 3
As for the third loan, this was for more money at £700 and so I do think that it was right for 
Quid Market to have obtained the credit search that it did. But having obtained it, I have 
noted that there are some adverse entries on there  including where his bank had defaulted 
his current account in March 2017 and it was closed in March 2018. 
But there were items on the credit search which likely would have been considered positive 
 such as Mr B being approved for motor insurance in April 2018, he had two other bank 
accounts with no issues reported on those, and he was approved for a new credit card in 
June 2018. 
He did take a short term loan in June 2018 as well. And the credit search did show a series 
of settled loans in March and April 2018. 
The section for insolvencies report none. There were no County Court Judgments (CCJ) for 
any debts reported. 
So, on balance, Id say that Quid Market would not have thought the credit file was so bad it 
ought to have refused the loan, but equally it did reveal a quick take-up of loans in March 
and April 2018, plus a payday loan, plus a bank account default. These likely are the reasons that Quid Market has offered what it did in the FRL  that it 
would relieve Mr B of the burden of the final balance to pay  around £443  and close the 
account for loan 3. The interest on that loan was due to have been just under £630. So, the 
reduction of £443 is a significant one  about 70%.
I consider this, in these circumstances, a fair and reasonable outcome and I do not have 
enough evidence to lead me to alter that outcome. 
So as that offer is still available to Mr B and as that was offered in the FRL, I officially 
conclude that I do not uphold the complaint. But I do endorse the offer from Quid Market. So, 
it needs to do what it said it would do in its FRL. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman