DRN-1378341
The complaint
Miss F complains (through her mother) that One Call Insurance Services Limited mishandled 
her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with a consumer complaint against one insurance 
company or other regulated financial firm at a time. 
Insofar as the complaint is about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a 
complaint against the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with that claim.
Insofar as the complaint is about the sale of an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint 
against the firm that was responsible for making the sale.
Miss F was in her early twenties. She had a small car which (according to the later policy 
schedule) she had bought in February 2018 for £1,700.00. She did not have any no-claims 
discount.
On 21 August 2018 Miss F went onto a price comparison website. She got a quotation from 
One Call, who she rang. It acted as an intermediary between her and an insurance company 
to complete the sale and purchase of the policy.
Miss F agreed to pay the yearly premium of nearly £4,000.00 by instalments.
The insurance company was responsible for dealing with claims under the policy.
The policy was amended when Miss F changed her car for a newer one. Later, that car was 
damaged in an incident involving a third party. 
The insurance company said the value of Miss Fs car was less than the policy excess of 
£3,000.00.
Miss F brought her complaint to us in May 2019. We have dealt separately with the 
complaint against the insurance company. Miss F complains that One Call had mis-sold the 
policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt find that 
One Call misinformed Miss F or made an error.  He didnt think it was the responsibility of 
One Call to explain that Miss F wouldnt receive money from a claim if the value of her car 
was less than the excess.
Miss F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The policy wasnt suitable in the circumstances
At no point was she informed that the value of the car she was insuring needed to 
meet £3,000.00 for the policy to be a fully comprehensive policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im dealing with a complaint against One Call. So this decision doesnt deal with any 
complaint about Miss Fs claim under the policy  or what the insurance company told her 
about it.
Third party fire and theft motor policies cover liability to third parties, cover for fire and 
cover for theft. Fully comprehensive motor policies include - in addition - cover for damage 
to the policyholders own vehicle.
Most motor insurance policies have a policy excess, at least for claims for damage to the 
policyholders own vehicle. The excess is the first part of a claim that must be borne by the 
policyholder. 
The effect of this is that a claim for an amount less than the excess is of no financial benefit 
to the policyholder. To that extent I agree with Miss F that  for the policy to operate as fully 
comprehensive  the value of the car needs to meet the amount of the excess. I consider 
that to require no explanation at the point of sale of the policy.
Miss F took out a policy with an excess of £3,000.00. That amount is unusually high. 
That excess applied to all sections of the policy. Miss Fs complaint against One Call 
relates to the section dealing with damage to her own car, rather than the section dealing 
with liability to third parties.
I cant say that the policy was one from which Miss F could never benefit. 
From what Miss F and One Call have each said, Im satisfied that on 21 August 2018 One 
Call told Miss F that the excess of £3,000.00 would apply to all sections including the section 
dealing with liability to third parties.
I dont find that One Call needed to do any more to highlight that there would be no financial 
benefit to Miss F in making a claim for damage to her car as it was worth less than the 
excess.
Im satisfied that the policy documents made clear the amount of the excess and its 
application to all sections of the policy.
And Miss F had the statutory 14-day cooling-off period during which she couldve cancelled 
the policy is she didnt find it suitable.
I note Miss Fs change of vehicle. I find it likely that there were adjustments to the yearly 
premium and monthly instalments.
Miss Fs car was damaged in the accident. One of her concerns was that she had to dispose 
of the damaged car. The insurance company wouldnt pay her its pre-accident value or take 
ownership of the damaged car.Miss F cancelled the policy on 24 May 2019. As the third party had made a claim, Miss F 
wasnt entitled to a refund of the premium, and she had to pay the remaining monthly 
instalments.
All this was costly and inconvenient to Miss F. But I dont find that One Call had mis-sold the 
policy or otherwise treated Miss F unfairly. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct One 
Call to do any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
Y For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
dont direct One Call Insurance Services Limited to do any more in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman