DRN-3416753
The complaint
Mr L complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly approved him for two loans.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company. For ease; Ill refer to all submissions
as if they were made directly by Mr L.
What happened
1Plus1 Loans approved Mr L for the following loans:
Loan Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments
One June 2013 £1,500 24 months £100 (approx.)
Two January 2015 £2,000 24 months £120 (approx.)
Mr L says 1Plus1 Loans did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks before 
approving the loans. He says had 1Plus1 Loans done so it wouldve seen the loans were 
unaffordable to him and decided not to lend.
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional decision. I set out my provisional findings as 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide air and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not currently minded to uphold this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
Mr L is aware of our services approach to irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
complaints; so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail here and will 
simply say Ive considered whether 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks before making a fair decision to lend. Ive also considered 
whether 1Plus1 Loans have acted unfairly in any other way.
Loan one
Our investigator set out why she felt 1Plus1 Loans had acted fairly in relation to 
loan one. Both 1Plus1 Loans and Mr L accepted her findings in relation to this loan. 
So I wont go into further detail here other than to say that I agree with it. That is to 
say Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks on 
this loan. These checks demonstrated that Mr L could likely afford the loan. As 
such I m satisfied 1Plus1 Loans acted reasonably when providing this loan to Mr L.
Loan two
Loan two was a total of £2,000 and was taken out in January 2015.
1Plus1 Loans completed the same level of checks for loan two as it did for loan 
one. That is to say it checked Mr Ls credit file; and completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on him.
These checks showed that Mr Ls income had increased to £1,300. The credit file 
showed that Mr Ls overall level of indebtedness had also increased as he had 
taken out two further unsecured loans since loan one which amounted to about 
£4,000 in total unsecured debt. The checks confirmed that Mr L was still living with 
family; and that his contribution to household bills remained the same.
Having considered the checks which 1Plus1 Loans completed; Im currently minded 
to say Im satisfied that they were proportionate in this instance.
Whilst I note that Mr Ls outgoings for both non-credit and credit commitments had 
increased; I also note his income had too. Im also mindful that the amount being 
advanced by 1Plus1 Loans remained low with correspondingly low monthly 
repayments; as such the requirements for further checks would not necessarily be 
proportionate in this instance.
1Plus1 Loans was aware of Mr Ls increased outgoings and credit commitments 
(including the fact he had a further dependent); and from what Ive seen these were 
taken into account when making its affordability assessment. Mr Ls credit file did 
not show any signs of financial distress such as missed payments or arrears. In 
addition to this; the first loan he took out had been well maintained. And Im not 
persuaded the increase in his overall level of indebtedness alone is enough to 
warrant 1Plus1 Loans to have completed further checks.
As such; considering these checks were proportionate to the value being 
advanced; and demonstrated the loan was likely affordable to Mr L; Im currently 
minded to say 1Plus1 Loans acted reasonably when providing this loan.
It follows that Im currently not minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
I asked both parties to respond with any further comments or information they wished to 
provide. 1Plus1 Loans responded and agreed with the decision. Mr L disagreed. He 
provided further copies of his bank statements and maintained that 1Plus1 Loans had not 
done proportionate checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered all of the information afresh; and having done so Im remain 
satisfied with the findings that I set out in my provisional decision. All parties agreed with the 
findings of our investigator in relation to loan one; and I am also satisfied 1Plus1 Loans 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks in relation to it. In relation to loan two; Mr L says 1Plus1 Loans shouldve requested bank statements; and 
had it done so it wouldve seen that his outgoings were higher than those declared due to 
gambling transactions. Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ls argument; he hasnt raised any new 
information as to why he feels 1Plus1 Loans checks werent proportionate in this instance. 
The information on his statements would go to the affordability of the loan; not to whether 
1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks. 
In the absence of new information or arguments to proportionality; Im satisfied that my 
findings in relation to the proportionality of the checks for this loan should remain the same. 
1Plus1 Loans was aware of Mr Ls increased outgoings and credit commitments (including 
the fact he had a further dependent); and from what Ive seen these were taken into account 
when making its affordability assessment. Mr Ls credit file did not show any signs of 
financial distress such as missed payments or arrears. Mr L had declared that his income 
had increased during this time; and that he remained living at home making a small 
contribution. There was no information which demonstrated 1Plus1 Loans could not 
reasonably rely on the information Mr L provided (nor can I see he made 1Plus1 Loans 
aware of his increased outgoings due to gambling); which wouldve warranted gathering 
further information from Mr L.
Im also mindful that the amount being advanced here was modest and as such the 
proportionality of the checks required were relative to this amount. And for the reasons set 
out above (as well as those set out in my provisional decision); Im satisfied the checks were 
proportionate in this instance. 
These checks showed that Mr L could likely afford the loan repayments. So, it follows Im 
satisfied 1Plus1 Loans acted reasonably when providing loan two. As such 1Plus1 Loans 
does not need to do anything further in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against 1Plus1 Loans Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman