DRN-2910404
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with what they were charged when they ported their existing 
interest rate product to a new mortgage with TSB Bank plc trading as Whistletree. They are 
also unhappy with the delays caused during the application process when obtaining a survey 
on the property they were buying. While TSB has offered them some compensation, they 
dont think it is enough.
What happened
In 2020 when Mr and Mrs C decided to move home, they had an interest rate product 
attached to their mortgage, which was due to expire at the end of February 2022. This meant 
they would have to pay an early redemption charge (ERC) if they paid the mortgage off 
before the end of the product term. However, they had the option to transfer, or port, the 
product to a new mortgage taken with TSB and theyd have the ERC refunded in part or 
total, depending on the amount they borrowed under the new mortgage. Mr and Mrs C 
decided to take this option. 
Mr and Mrs C sold and bought simultaneously in December 2020. However, they believed 
that they would only pay an ERC on the amount they were reducing their borrowing by when 
the old mortgage was paid off. A few days before they were told by TSB that this was not the 
case; they would have to pay the full ERC on the old mortgage and then TSB would refund 
the ERC on the amount of the new mortgage around ten days later.  Mr and Mrs C also 
questioned the mortgage redemption fee of £250 being charged, as they said they hadnt 
been told about it. Subsequently they discovered the combined application and survey fee 
was showing on their closing mortgage statement as having been add to the old mortgage 
account. They questioned this as they paid it up front and while it had been refunded, they 
believe they might have paid interest on it.
Mr and Mrs C paid the charges associated with the mortgage redemption, but complained. 
They also questioned why their first payment to the new mortgage was higher than the 
subsequent one. 
There was unfortunately a delay in the partial ERC refund being processed and this didnt go 
through until 18 January 2021. When it did, TSB deducted from that sum £410 (the amount 
of the application and survey fee) that it had incorrectly refunded to Mr and Mrs Cs current 
account. 
TSB partially upheld the complaint. It was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C werent made aware 
that theyd have to pay the whole ERC on the existing mortgage and would then receive a 
partial refund around ten days later, rather than paying the amount of the ERC on the 
difference between the old and new mortgage advances. In addition, it upheld the complaint 
about the service they had received because the ERC refund wasnt made when it should 
have been and a member of its staff didnt deal with a query they could have. TSB paid 
interest on the ERC for the period of the delay and £100 compensation.  
However, the complaint about the redemption fee was declined as Mr and Mrs C had been 
made aware of this charge before they applied for the new mortgage and during the 
application process. In relation to the application and survey fee, TSB confirmed that all fees 
and charges were recorded on the mortgage account. As they had paid that fee before it 
was applied to the account, TSB assured them they hadnt paid any interest on the fee. TSB 
also explained that the partial month of interest Mr and Mrs C had queried had been charged 
on the new mortgage account and no interest had been charged on the old account after 
redemption. TSB went on to comment that while Mr and Mrs C had said they thought its 
interest rate products were uncompetitive, theyd had the option to re-mortgage to another 
lender in February 2020. As they had chosen to stay with TSB and take a new interest rate 
product at that time, it assumed they were satisfied with the rates available. 
In relation to Mr and Mrs Cs concerns about the valuation having caused delays in the 
process, TSB confirmed that it had commissioned the survey on 2 November 2020. It had 
been carried out on 10 November 2020 and TSB had received the report on 23 November 
2020. At which point it had been reviewed and it was deemed satisfactory and a copy was 
sent to Mr and Mrs C on 25 November 2020. TSB didnt consider it was responsible for any 
delays during this process. 
Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with TSBs response and referred their complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She set out the account statement entries 
in relation to the application/survey fees. She was satisfied that Mr and Mrs C hadnt been 
charged these fees more than once, although TSB had incorrectly refunded them. In 
addition, she set out the refund of ERC calculation and confirmed that the incorrectly 
refunded fees of £410 had been deducted from it; she didnt think this was unreasonable. 
She also didnt think it was unreasonable for TSB to charge the redemption fee as the 
existing mortgage had been paid off. 
In relation to the interest that Mr and Mrs C had been charged as part of their first mortgage 
payment, she was satisfied it was appropriate as they were paying the interest for the month 
the payment was made in (January 2021), plus that for the partial month from the completion 
date (December 2020). The investigator confirmed this had been explained to Mr and Mrs C 
before the payment was claimed.  Overall, she was satisfied TSB had settled Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint appropriately and she didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs C thanked the investigator for her explanation. They said that they found it was 
unbelievable the way TSB dealt with the application/survey fee. They highlighted that it was 
only after our involvement that the situation in relation to these fees had been explained and 
they considered TSB had wasted everyones time in the way it had dealt with the matter. 
They didnt accept that TSB could just add amounts to a mortgage account without the 
approval of the borrowers. The reiterated that they hadnt been aware of how the ERC would 
be dealt with in practice and the refund only happened after they chased it. They pointed out 
that the mortgage redemption fee had also been charged to the mortgage account without 
their consent. They still felt that it was unreasonable for this fee to be charged, but they 
accepted they had no choice in the matter. Mr and Mrs C commented that they hadnt 
received the money offered in the final response letter. They said that theyd spent a number 
of hours resolving their concerns and wanted TSB to make them a more appropriate offer in 
line with the stress and anxiety they had been caused. 
TSB confirmed that the money offered in its final response letter hadnt been paid, as 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt accepted the offer. It said the offer was still open for their acceptance, 
but it wouldnt be increasing the amount. 
Our investigator commented further on Mr and Mrs Cs concerns, but she wasnt persuaded 
to change her view of the complaint. She also provided Mr and Mrs C with copies of transaction history wed been provided with for the old and new mortgages.  Mr and Mrs C 
maintained that they felt theyd been treated unfairly. They also said they were still waiting 
for a statement for their new mortgage, which theyd asked for several times. 
The investigator provided Mr and Mrs C with another copy of the transaction history for the 
new mortgage account. Mr and Mrs C acknowledged receipt of the information and 
confirmed that it seemed correct. However, they remained unhappy with the way TSB had 
behaved and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have said they werent told about the mortgage redemption fee of £250 when 
they discussed moving with TSB. I wasnt present at the discussions, so I cant confirm 
exactly what was discussed. However, this fee is almost always payable when a mortgage is 
redeemed so I find it unlikely that it wouldnt have been mentioned. It covers the cost of 
processing the closure of the mortgage and the release of the legal charge from the property 
title. It was documented in the mortgage offers Mr and Mrs C were sent. It wasnt 
unreasonable for TSB to charge this sum.
In relation to the application/survey fee, I can appreciate that the multiple additions and 
deduction of this fee from the mortgage account statement could have caused confusion. 
Added to this, there was the fact that TSB incorrectly refunded it to Mr and Mrs Cs building 
society account. However, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs C were only charged for the 
application and survey once. As for these charges and the redemption charge being 
recorded on the mortgage account, I dont think this is inappropriate, or that TSB needed 
Mr and Mrs Cs permission to do so. It means that a borrower has a permanent record of the 
sums theyve been charged and paid, and it is common practice in the mortgage industry 
which is allowed under the mortgage conditions.
TSB accepted that it didnt deal with the matter of the ERC appropriately  from not 
explaining how it would be processed in the first instance to the delay in providing 
Mr and Mrs C with the refund later. It offered them £100 compensation for the mistake and 
the upset and inconvenience it caused them. I consider this is a reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. I also consider it was appropriate for TSB to pay interest on the refunded 
ERC for the period of delay. TSB has confirmed this offer is still available to Mr and Mrs C if 
they want to accept it. If they do, they should contact TSB directly.
Having looked at TSBs calculation of the ERC I am satisfied that it appears to be correct. I 
also think it was reasonable that the incorrectly refunded application/survey fee was 
deducted from the refund as it meant that Mr and Mrs C received the correct amount overall. 
That said, I dont think TSB made it clear what it was doing. 
Overall, although I know that Mr and Mrs C wont agree with me, I think TSB has offered to 
settle this complaint appropriately. So I dont consider it needs to do anything more. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman