DRN-4342795
The complaint
Mr A complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motorhome 
insurance because they didn't like the risk.
What happened
Mr A held a motorhome insurance policy with Acromas. 
In January 2023 Mr A was in Spain in his motorhome where he had been since 15 
November 2022. He was considering travelling to Morocco, and so he rang Acromas to ask 
if he could have a green card. During that call Acromas asked some additional questions 
about his travel plans. 
Following that call, Acromas sent him a letter on 16 January cancelling his policy from 23 
January as they said he no longer met their acceptance criteria for cover. 
Mr A complains that his policy was unfairly cancelled and it has now cost him a lot more to 
take out a new policy as he has a cancellation on his record.  
Mr A raised a complaint about this, but Acromas said that the decision was made in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy relating to residence.  
Mr A was unhappy with Acromass response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr As complaint but he thought Acromas had acted 
fairly and within the terms of the policy.
Mr A disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case came to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. My provisional findings were as follows:
What I have to decide is whether Acromas have fairly applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy. 
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Mr A and Acromas.
In Mr As policy it says the following about cancellation:
If we need to cancel your policy
Your insurer, or Saga, on their behalf may cancel your policy by giving you seven 
days notice by recorded delivery letter to your last known address. There may be a 
number of reasons why your policy may be cancelled, including non payment or 
premium, arrangement fee, and other fee or charges requested in writing, or a 
change to your insurance details that means we are no longer able to cover you. 
Your insurer will remove your vehicle from the Motor Insurers Database and refund to 
you the unused part of your premium. The arrangement fee will not be refunded and 
saga will charge a cancellation fee. 
On p 48 of the policy booklet it says:
"We and/or Saga may cancel this policy by giving you seven days notice by 
recorded delivery letter to your last known address. This policy may be cancelled 
where there is a valid reason, for example if: your insurance details change such that 
they no longer meet our acceptance criteria."
So Im satisfied that Acromas do have the ability to cancel cover with seven days notice 
when a customer no longer meets their acceptance criteria. 
However, Ive then gone on to consider whether Mr A no longer met those criteria, and 
whether the policy was cancelled fairly. And in this situation, I dont think it was.  
When Mr A rang Acromas, it was to discuss his proposed travel plans to Morocco, and to 
request a green card. 
During further questioning about the proposed trip, Mr A told the call handler that he had left 
the UK on 15 November 2022 and he was not intending to return until 20 May 2023. He also 
advised that he rents out his property in the UK to pay for his travel costs and lives with his 
mother when he is in the UK. He does this frequently as he doesnt like the UK winters. 
While Mr A had a proposed return date of 20 May 2023, but as he was travelling with his 
motorhome, his plans and dates were flexible.  
 
Acromas put this to their underwriters, and they said they were no longer able to offer cover, 
as the acceptance criteria for cover says that you must have a primary permanent residence 
in the UK, and that Mr As arrangements in terms of renting out his property and travelling 
outside the UK for more than six months of the year meant the no longer met their 
acceptance criteria. 
I have seen Acromass underwriting criteria, and it does require that a persons primary 
residence is the UK. However, they havent provided me with the definition of primary 
residence in the underwriting criteria or policy, and so Im unable to say whether they have 
fairly applied it. Mr A has told us that prior to leaving on 15 November 2022 he had been in 
the UK for six months, and I havent seen any evidence which supports Acromass view that  
renting out your property while you travel for six months would ordinarily change your main 
country of primary residence.
    
When Mr A rang to ask Acromas about getting a green card to go to Morocco he had no 
expectation that it would cause an issue. He previously had green cards for Morocco and for 
Turkey on a similar basis from Acromas and no questions had been raised on those 
occasions.
 
I think that Acromas should have explained to Mr A that he was required to retain his primary 
residence in the UK for his cover to be unaffected  and what that meant.  Mr A would then 
have been able to make the decision about whether to shorten his trip to retain cover, or to 
cancel his policy himself and look elsewhere for cover. 
Mr A wasnt in breach of his policy terms at the time it was cancelled  he had only been out 
of the UK for two months, and he was only making an enquiry for something that hadnt yet 
happened.  So it seems unfair for Acromas to cancel his cover, resulting in him having a 
cancellation on his record.
  
Mr A also now has to declare the cancellation of his policy which is affecting his premiums 
and means he is being refused cover. 
 
In the light of these findings, I therefore intended to uphold Mr As complaint, and I invited 
the parties to comment.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Acromas and Mr A have responded. 
Acromas disagree with my decision, although they are willing to offer £100 to settle matters. 
They have confirmed that the cancellation was never entered on the claims and underwriting 
exchange, and so there was no need for Mr A to declare it in the future, and they didnt ever 
tell him it would be necessary.  
Despite Acromass representations, I still dont think they acted fairly in cancelling the policy. 
I think they could have outlined the terms of the policy with Mr A more clearly when he made 
the enquiry about going to Morocco, which would have given him the choice to amend his 
travel dates to conform with the policy. In terms of the remedy for this, I have decided to  
award the difference in premiums for the period from when Mr As policy was cancelled on 
18 January 2023 to the end of the policy year, which was 9 April 2023. This is because I 
can't say for certain that Acromas would have offered cover for the new policy year that 
started on 10 April 2023  and so I dont think it is fair to make any award past that date . 
Mr A has commented that the new policy terms with LV were not as favourable as 
Acromas's. However, I can't see that he has incurred any loss as a result of the less 
favourable terms in the period between 18 January 2023 and 9 April 2023, and so I don't 
consider that any compensation is appropriate for that.
Mr A has also asked me to increase the award for distress and inconvenience. He has 
included some additional information about the inconvenience this caused him, and so I 
have increased the award to £250 in the light of those representations. I notified this change 
to Acromas and havent received any response. 
Mr A has told me that he is still unhappy with this and has indicated that he has taken legal 
advice and is likely to reject my decision. That is his prerogative. We are an alternative 
dispute resolution service working on the basis of what we think is a fair outcome for the 
parties. If he rejects my outcome Mr A can still go down the route of legal proceedings if he 
chooses to do so. However, I am satisfied that having considered all of the circumstances in 
this case, my final decision and the award I have made is fair and reasonable.  
In light of the above, Im making my final decision in line with my provisional findings, 
amended as notified to the parties.  
Putting things right
In order to out things right I think that Acromas should:
Pay Mr A the difference between the cost of his premium with Acromas and the cost 
with LV for the period 18 January 2023  9 April 2023.
Pay Mr A 8% interest on the above sum from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Pay Mr A £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by cancelling his policy 
when he was out of the country and had to arrange new cover.My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr As complaint and direct Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited to put things right as outlined above.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman