DRN-3737173
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt inform them that the fee-
waiver that was applicable to their Platinum account was being removed.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she ultimately upheld the complaint. 
She recommended that TSB should refund the Platinum account fees applied to the account 
between March 2021 to when the account was changed to a fee free account.
TSB disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
think that what the adjudicator recommended, to put things right, was unreasonable. I will 
explain why.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G had held the Platinum account for a number of years, and 
were able to benefit from a fee-waiver if they kept the balance of the account above a certain 
amount. This meant they would not have to pay the monthly fee that normally applied to the 
Platinum account.
TSB decided to withdraw this fee-waiver as a feature of the account - which it was entitled to 
do. However, TSBs terms and conditions say that when making such a change (such as 
removing the fee-waiver), it will give affected account holders two months notice. 
As such, according to TSBs terms and conditions, when removing the fee-waiver it was 
obliged to provide notice to Mr and Mrs G. However, Mr and Mrs G say that they never 
received the written notice and were only aware that they were charged after several 
months.
Looking at TSBs investigation of the matter, it looks as though TSB is confident that Mr and 
Mrs G were included in the mailing of the letter, notifying them of the withdrawal of the fee 
waiver. We have been provided with a template of this letter. But importantly there is no 
documentary evidence that this letter was actually sent to Mr and Mrs G and I cant see a 
copy of the personalised letter that was sent to them, just the template. Given this I cant see 
that Mr and Mrs G were provided with notice that they were going to be charged for their 
account as the fee waiver was going to be removed. So I think that it is fair to refund the 
account fees charged until Mr and Mrs G downgraded their account
As such, I think that the redress that the adjudicator recommended in her assessment of the 
case is not an unreasonable approach to settling this matter.
Putting things right
Therefore, to put matters right, I require TSB Bank Plc to:
Refund any monthly Platinum account fees Mr and Mrs G were charged from March 
2021 to when the account was changed to a fee free account.

Pay 8% simple interest, less tax, on those fees, calculated from the date each fee 
was taken, to the date of settlement.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I require TSB Bank Plc to do what I have set out 
above, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman