DRN-3237286
The complaint
Miss H and Mr W complain about mis-information, delays and poor service from an 
appointed representative of Openwork Limited. They ask for compensation. 
What happened
Miss H and Mr W wanted to buy a property and contacted Openwork for mortgage advice in 
mid-2020. They say that Openwork:
Caused delays which meant they couldnt apply for the mortgage product they wanted. 
The mortgage they took out is about £800 per year more expensive.
Didnt tell them there was a £550 fee to apply to the First Home Fund. It didnt tell them 
about its own £299 fee. 
Started an application for a mortgage they didnt want.
Failed to communicate fairly with them.
Miss H and Mr W say this caused unnecessary stress. The incorrect information meant they 
couldnt budget properly. Their income fell due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the fees and 
the more expensive mortgage caused financial hardship.
Our investigator said the product Miss H and Mr W wanted wasnt available. But this wasnt 
due to Openwork causing unnecessary delays. He said while it was likely Openwork hadnt 
given Miss H and Mr W clear information about the fees, its offer to refund its brokers fee 
was fair. The investigator didnt think it fair to require Openwork to pay for the First Homes 
Fund fee as Miss H and Mr W had to pay this to obtain the loan and mortgage. However, he 
said not telling them about the fee, and that the product they wanted wasnt available, 
caused upset and inconvenience. 
The investigator said Openwork should pay £150 compensation, which it agreed to do.
Miss H and Mr W didnt agree. They said £150 was an insult for what theyd been through. 
They said they budgeted for a cheaper mortgage and asked for compensation for the more 
expensive mortgage they took out. Miss H and Mr W said Openwork mis-sold the product it 
first recommended (which was not available) and when it applied for a five-year product with 
a different lender without their consent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. If we find that a business has made an error 
we ask it to put matters right. That means putting the customer into the position they should 
have been in, if there hadnt been an error, if thats possible. And paying fair compensation 
for any financial loss, inconvenience or upset.
Openwork cant provide call recordings. And, as the broker is no longer working with it, it 
cant provide copies of his emails. The parties dispute some aspects of what happened here. 
I should say that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
The mortgage product
Openwork says the mortgage product it first discussed with Miss H and Mr W was withdrawn 
before it could make an application. Miss H and Mr W say they checked with the lender and 
the product was never available. Information we received from the lender supports what 
Miss H and Mr W say. Either way though, its clear that Miss H and Mr W could not have 
taken out this product. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Openwork to pay compensation to Miss H and 
Mr W for them not being able to take out a product which wasnt available. Regardless of 
any errors made by Openwork, they could only choose a product from those that were 
available to them when they made their application. However, it should have told them the 
product wasnt available.
Miss H and Mr W say Openwork should not have applied for a five-year product with another 
lender without their consent. Openwork accepts it was wrong to start an application without 
discussing it with Miss H and Mr W first.
Miss H and Mr W discussed their needs and circumstances and available mortgage products 
with Openwork before it applied for the mortgage they chose and ultimately took out. 
I cant see that Miss H and Mr W were caused any financial loss by Openwork 
recommending a mortgage that wasnt available, or by it starting an application for a 
mortgage they didnt want. But I do think that this caused unnecessary upset and confusion. 
Delays with the mortgage application
Openwork says Miss H and Mr W needed to make a First Home Fund application as they 
only had a 5% deposit and lenders werent offering 95% mortgages at that time. 
Openwork says the correct process is to wait for the First Home Fund application to be 
approved before making the mortgage application. It made the mortgage application on 21 
September 2020 and the lender issued an offer a few days later. 
Openwork collected evidence (such as payslips and bank statements) from Miss H and 
Mr W on 31 August, and the offer was issued just over three weeks later. Miss H and Mr W 
told Openwork they wanted to complete their purchase at the end of October 2020. I dont 
think Openwork caused delays with Miss H and Mr W receiving a mortgage offer, or with 
their purchase.
Brokers fee
Openworks process is for a fee agreement to be signed before a mortgage application is 
made. As it hadnt done this, Openwork refunded the fee, and I think that was the correct 
and fair thing to do. 
First Homes Fund feeMiss H and Mr W had to pay a fee to proceed with the First Home Fund loan. This was paid 
via their solicitor, in late September 2020. Miss H and Mr W say they hadnt been told about 
the fee and this came as a surprise. Openwork says it did tell them about the fee. Openwork 
cant provide evidence that it gave Miss H and Mr W clear information about the fee. 
However, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Openwork to compensate Miss H 
and Mr W for the fee. The fee wasnt payable due to an error by Openwork  Miss H and 
Mr W had to pay this fee if they wanted to proceed with the First Homes Fund loan. 
Poor service and communication
Miss H and Mr W say Openwork didnt keep them informed, and the brokers manner was 
short and uninterested. Openwork says this isnt fair  and in fact the broker drove to 
Miss H and Mr Ws house with his young child in the car to pick up their documents. Without 
call recordings and emails, its difficult to reach a firm conclusion about this. However, 
Openwork did make errors. It didnt provide its fee agreement to Miss H and Mr W at the 
outset. It appears to have recommended a mortgage product that wasnt available. It didnt 
contact Miss H and Mr W to tell them this product wasnt available. It started an application 
with a different lender without consulting them  which Miss H and Mr W discovered when 
they contacted it to find out what was happening. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Miss H and Mr W were caused any financial loss 
by Openworks errors. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Openwork to pay compensation on the basis 
of any budgeting Miss H and Mr W had done previously, on the basis a cheaper mortgage 
was available. Having received a mortgage offer and First Homes Fund loan offer, it was for 
Miss H and Mr W to decide whether to proceed, taking into account the costs, fees and 
monthly payments. 
But I think Openworks errors and poor communication did cause confusion and upset and it 
should pay compensation for this. Buying a property is often stressful, and uncertainty about 
their mortgage application would have added to Miss H and Mr Ws worry. Ive taken into 
account that Miss H and Mr W received a mortgage offer less than a month after they had an 
offer accepted on a property  and more than a month before they were due to complete 
their purchase. Openwork has already refunded the brokers fee. In the circumstances, I think 
£150 compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Openwork Limited to pay £150 to Miss H 
and Mr W. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman