DRN-3617417
The complaint
Mrs W, and the estate of Mr W, complain that Financial Administration Service Limited 
(Fidelity) charged ongoing adviser fees to their accounts after it had been agreed this 
wouldnt happen following the removal of their independent financial adviser (IFA).
What happened
Mrs W, and her late husband, held (and still hold) investment accounts with Fidelity. In 2014, 
they instructed Fidelity to remove their IFA from their account. This happened on 9 October 
2014 and Fidelity wrote to Mr and Mrs W to say that no further ongoing adviser fees would 
be paid.
In 2019, it came to light that Fidelity had taken ongoing adviser fees in November 2014 by 
way of cancelling units. Mr and Mrs W complained. Fidelity explained that those fees were 
due to their IFA for the relationship up to the date the IFA was taken off the account.
Since then, Fidelity said that the adviser delinking letter wasnt clear and it has made 
changes as a result. In 2019, as a result of the complaint, Fidelity refunded the fees taken in 
November 2014 to Mr and Mrs Ws accounts and to date has paid a total of over £600 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Our Investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She explained the ongoing 
adviser fees were likely deducted as per the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws accounts but in any 
event Fidelity had now refunded these. The Investigator explained in detail how the units 
placed back into the account were correct to reflect those cancelled in 2014 and she felt the 
compensation Fidelity had paid was fair and reasonable.
Mrs W on behalf of herself and her late husband disagreed. She felt that Fidelity had caused 
a breach of trust and felt that she should receive at least £500 each for the issues it had 
caused. She thanked our Investigator but asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W but my reasons are below.
Ongoing adviser fees
The main issue that Mrs W is complaining about is that Fidelity has taken funds from hers 
and her late husbands accounts without permission after their IFA had been de-linked from 
them. Ive looked at the letter that Fidelity sent on 9 October 2014. It says:
Any Ongoing Fee or commission due to your financial adviser, and any adviser commission 
rebates you received, will stop from todays date.
Mr and Mrs W understood that to mean no fees would be taken after that date. But the letter 
actually says that no fees will be due to their IFA after that date and there is a difference. 
Ongoing adviser fees are accrued daily in arrears and paid on a monthly basis in line with 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws agreement with their IFA. This means that each month the fees 
paid to their adviser from their investment is for the previous month. So, whilst Mr and Mrs 
Ws IFA was removed from their account on 9 October 2014  Fidelity hadnt yet paid the 
ongoing adviser fees up until that point  and it was for that time that it deducted fees in 
November. So, I dont think it did something wrong in deducting those fees  I think it was 
done so in line with the terms of the account.
However, I have noted that Fidelity acknowledged the letter it sent wasnt clear and has 
since paid the fees back into the accounts by way of purchasing units. And Im satisfied from 
the evidence it has provided (which our Investigator set out in detail to Mrs W) that it has 
done so correctly. So, I think Fidelity has put Mrs W and her late husbands account in the 
position it wouldve been in had the ongoing adviser fees not been deducted in the first 
place.
Trouble and upset
Its clear that Mrs W has felt very upset by the situation of finding out fees had been 
deducted when she felt they shouldnt have been. And that she feels this has been done 
without her consent. Im mindful however that Fidelity was entitled to take the fees.
I can see that the discovery of the fees being taken happened during a very difficult period, 
and Im sorry to hear of Mr Ws passing whilst the complaint has been ongoing. Its clear that 
Mrs W has felt enormous stress during this time and shes told us about the stress Mr W felt 
about it whilst he was so unwell. Mrs W has my sincere condolences for this difficult time.
My role here is to determine whether the compensation Fidelity has paid is fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset its error caused. Im mindful that I dont think it did 
anything wrong in taking the fees, but it has acknowledged that it didnt make this clear to Mr 
and Mrs W so the discovery of the fees being taken wouldve come as a shock. I can see 
that Fidelity has paid in excess of £600 (by way of cheques and BACS payments) in total to 
both Mr and Mrs W for this and I consider that to be fair and reasonable. I do understand 
that Mrs W feels Fidelity should pay more, but I dont think that would be fair. Fidelity has 
changed the wording of its delinking letters as a result of this complaint and has explained 
why the fees were to be taken. It has also put Mr and Mrs Ws accounts into the position 
theyd be in if those fees had never been taken. So, it did enough to put things right and I 
think its paid sufficient compensation for the impact of its errors. Im not going to ask it to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman