DRN-4064476
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T and Mrs T contacted AXA to make a claim when a window pane fell out at their home. 
AXA sent a home emergency engineer to carry out a temporary repair. Mr T and Mrs T 
contacted AXA again as they didnt hear anything further. They then logged a claim for 
accidental damage under the buildings insurance part of the policy. AXA declined the claim 
as it said the damage was the result of wear and tear.
Mr T and Mrs T complained to AXA, including about their claim being declined, the lack of 
response to phone calls and that the home emergency engineer wasnt qualified to do the 
job. When AXA replied, it maintained its decision to decline the claim, as it said the damage 
didnt meet the terms of the policy to be an accidental damage claim. It said the damage was 
the result of wear and tear, which wasnt covered by the policy. 
When Mr T and Mrs T complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold it. He said it 
was reasonable for AXA to decide the damage was the result of wear and tear.
As Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
As part of my decision, Im mindful that Mr T and Mrs T asked AXA for the phone calls 
related to their claim, but havent been provided with them. I also havent been able to listen 
to the phone calls. However, in my view, I have enough information available to me to make 
a fair and reasonable decision.
When AXA responded to Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint, it explained When making a claim, it 
is the policyholders responsibility to demonstrate that an insured event has occurred. This 
is a normal approach to a claim and the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate that what 
happened was a one-off insured event covered by the policy.
The policy defined accidental damage as Sudden, unexpected and unforeseen events that 
cause visible damage and needed to have been caused by the policyholder or their guests. 
From what Ive seen, I think the glass pane falling out was sudden, unexpected and 
unforeseen. However, I dont think its clear that the damage was caused by the policyholder 
or a guest. When Mr T and Mrs T described what had happened, they said their son opened 
the window and the pane fell out. Opening a window wouldnt normally result in a pane 
falling out and I havent seen any explanation that showed it was more likely down to a one-
off incident at the time it fell out, rather than highlighting a pre-existing issue with the window.
Ive also looked at what the home emergency engineer found. Following the visit, the 
engineer provided a report that said the observed cause of damage was wear and tear and 
window pop riveted on and have snapped with age complex survey needed. Im aware Mr 
T and Mrs T were concerned about the engineers ability to carry out the repair. However, I 
havent seen evidence that his assessment of the damage itself was incorrect. I also havent 
seen a professional assessment showing an alternative cause of damage. 
Im aware Mr T and Mrs T have said AXA said it would arrange a further survey and Ive 
noted the comment in the engineers report about a further survey. However, I think it was 
reasonable that AXA didnt do this. AXA had established a cause of damage, which was 
wear and tear. It didnt need to continue to search for alternative causes unless there was 
good reason to do so. From what Ive seen in AXAs call notes, Mr T and Mrs T were told 
they could submit their own report if they wished to do so. Im aware Mr T and Mrs T have 
disagreed they were advised they could submit their own report. However, Im satisfied they 
were advised it was their responsibility to demonstrate an insured event had occurred, as 
they were told this in the complaint response. Based on everything Ive seen, I think it was 
reasonable for AXA to decline the claim on the basis of the damage being the result of wear 
and tear.
Im also aware Mr T and Mrs T complained about AXAs customer service, including 
communication issues. Mr T and Mrs T were concerned about the lack of proactive 
responses from AXA and the amount of time they spent dealing with the issue. Looking at 
the records, Mr T and Mrs T phoned several times about the claim. From what I can see, 
some of those calls were because Mr T and Mrs T didnt agree that the damage was due to 
wear and tear. Im aware AXA also said it would send Mr T and Mrs T an email with a phone 
number to discuss the claim, which Mr T and Mrs T said they didnt receive. Ive seen the 
email sent by AXA shortly after it said it would do so. I understand there might have been an 
issue with AXAs systems which meant the email didnt then leave its internal systems. I can 
understand Mr T and Mrs T were frustrated to have to call again to find out why they hadnt 
received the email. However, overall, I think AXA assessed the claim quickly and provided a 
claim outcome promptly. It also responded to the complaint promptly and provided a clear 
explanation of why it had declined the claim.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman