DRN-4165581
The complaint
Ms J has complained about how Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red 
Sands) said it would settle a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms J submitted a claim to Red Sands when her son fell in the shower damaging it. Red 
Sands accepted the claim and assessed how to deal with it. Ms J said it was a wet room and 
needed to be tanked. Red Sands didnt agree to the tanking, as it said it hadnt been tanked 
previously. Ms J didnt want the work to be carried out if this didnt happen. Red Sands said 
it would cash settle the claim, but without including the cost of tanking.
When Ms J complained, Red Sands maintained that it wouldnt cover any costs for tanking. 
However, it offered £300 compensation for other issues with the claim. So, Ms J complained 
to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the tanking appeared to be 
necessary. So, he said Red Sands either needed to do the work or pay the cash settlement 
for the amount of Ms Js quote, which included the tanking. He also said Red Sands should 
pay an additional £150 compensation.
As Red Sands didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive considered whether it was a wet room. Looking at Red Sands records, I can see 
references to it being assessed as being a wet room. Im aware Ms J has said the room was 
previously tanked and that Red Sands has said it wasnt. Regardless of this, Ms Js builder 
assessed that it was necessary for the room to be tanked. Ive also looked at the building 
regulations on this, which said that waterproofing or tanking was necessary in wet rooms. 
This service provided information to Red Sands on this, although I note it didnt comment on 
it.
Based on what Ive seen, I think it is reasonable to say it was a wet room and it was 
therefore necessary for tanking to be included in the repair, regardless of whether Red 
Sands thinks it was previously tanked. Im also aware Red Sands said this would be 
betterment. However, I consider it reasonable for Red Sands to deal with this as part of the 
claim. This is so Ms J is returned to the position she was in before the claim, which was that 
she had a waterproof room, and so that a lasting and effective repair is completed in line 
with building regulations. In my view, this work is necessary, rather than betterment.
As a result, Red Sands must either carry out the repair, including the tanking, or it must pay 
Ms Js own quote for the work, which includes the costs of tanking. 
I have also thought about compensation. Red Sands offered £300 for the issues it identified, 
including delays. However, in my view, this didnt take into account all the issues on the 
claim, including the way it wanted to settle the claim. Ms J was also caused inconvenience, 
as it affected Ms Js ability to have a shower while the issues remained unresolved. So, I 
think Red Sands should pay an additional £150 compensation, which is £450 in total.
Im aware Ms J raised some issues around the tiling with this service. However, she would 
need to raise these with Red Sands. Im unable to address this in my decision.
Putting things right
Red Sands should settle the claim, including covering the cost of the tanking, by either doing 
the work itself or paying Ms J a cash settlement based on a quote provided by her. It must 
also pay a total of £450 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
Settle the claim, including covering the cost of the tanking, by either doing the work itself 
or paying Ms J a cash settlement based on a quote provided by her.
Pay Ms J a total of £450 compensation, which includes the £300 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman