DRN-3514356
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc declined his application for an unsecured personal 
loan. 
What happened
On 23 November 2021 Mr B completed an online loan application for £15,500 over 60 
months. The application was declined. Mr B appealed the decision and it was referred to 
HSBCs underwriters for further consideration. On review, the underwriters maintained the 
decision to decline the application. 
Mr B strongly disagreed with the decision. He told us as a member of staff he was familiar 
with HSBCs practices and said HSBC could use discretion to agree the lending for him.    
Mr B explained he wanted to take out the loan to consolidate existing debt with HSBC and 
other creditors so this would put him in a better position financially by reducing his overall 
monthly outgoings. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They explained it was not the role of this 
service to get involved with a lenders decision to approve lending and our service could only 
consider whether Mr Bs application had been considered fairly and reasonably. The 
investigator explained Mr Bs application had been declined for affordability reasons. And the 
investigator noted HSBCs responsibilities as a lender to ensure agreeing any loan would be 
affordable. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigator and wanted to know what information had been relied 
upon to reach the lending decision. Our investigator said HSBCs information was broadly in 
line with the information Mr B had provided and there was no suggestion of anything 
different being used. So overall our investigators conclusions were that HSBC had treated 
Mr B fairly in the circumstances. 
As a resolution could not be reached, Mr Bs complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator, for broadly the same reasons, that 
Mr Bs complaint should not be upheld. 
As our investigator has previously explained, it is not for this service to interfere with a 
businesss commercial decision making. The Financial Ombudsman Service is set up to 
resolve individual disputes based on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case  not to investigate or regulate a businesss processes and practices. That is for the 
regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to do. 
However, our service can look to see if Mr B has been treated fairly when he applied for his 
loan in November 2021. That is, we can see what information was taken into account and 
consider whether Mr B has been treated any differently to other HSBC customers. And 
based on the submissions available to me, in the circumstances of this case, I think HSBC 
have treated Mr B fairly. 
Mr Bs initial application was automatically declined by HSBCs systems and so he 
requested the application be reviewed again. HSBC did this by passing the application to 
their underwriters for further consideration. I can see from the submissions that HSBCs 
underwriters concluded the loan was not affordable for Mr B and they let him know this was 
the reason the application was being declined. In HSBCs final response letter to him on 27 
January 2022, they confirmed the reason for the loan application being unsuccessful was 
due to affordability reasons and not meeting HSBCs lending criteria.
 
I understand Mr B feels strongly that HSBC can have discretion to override a systems 
decision, but that is HSBCs decision to make not Mr Bs decision. As Ive explained it is not 
for our service to tell HSBC when they should lend. And HSBC have to consider their 
responsibilities and obligations as a lender  including ensuring that theyre satisfied a loan 
is affordable for someone. In this case, HSBC  in line with their lending criteria - concluded 
the loan was not affordable for Mr B. 
I realise Mr B has said his intention for the loan was to consolidate existing debt so that he 
would be in a better financial position. But I dont think HSBC were ignoring this as they were 
aware that Mr B was saying he would repay existing debt with this loan. So Im satisfied that 
HSBC took this into account when reaching their decision not to agree the loan for Mr B. 
Mr Bs submissions to us are that not agreeing this loan could potentially put him in a worse 
financial position and he has mentioned bankruptcy as a possible consequence. 
I am sorry to hear that Mr Bs financial situation is not easy and I appreciate Mr B feels 
HSBCs decision is unfair. However, it is HSBCs decision whether to approve a loan from 
them, and Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr B has been treated unfairly or any 
differently to other HSBC customers when HSBC applied their lending criteria. 
HSBCs final response letter let Mr B know he could contact their Financial Support Team 
(FST) if he needed any help, and according to HSBCs internal notes he was also told he 
could speak to the FST or his manager for support. On 10 February 2022 HSBC wrote to   
Mr B about his overdraft usage to remind him an overdraft is a short-term way to borrow 
money and not designed for longer-term borrowing. The letter included within it the contact 
details for organisations that Mr B could potentially find helpful if needed. So overall I think 
HSBC took steps to point Mr B to other places of potential support that could help him where 
HSBC was unable to. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman