DRN-1747933
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O have complained about the way Pepper (UK) Limited (trading as Engage 
Credit) has dealt with their mortgage account. They say that Pepper has refused to talk to 
them about arrears or consider their proposals for payment arrangements. Mr and Mrs O are 
also unhappy about court proceedings instigated by Pepper, which Mr and Mrs O say forced 
them into making an application to the court to stop Pepper from taking possession. 
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs O want Pepper to pay them compensation and 
reimburse them for the legal fees they incurred in defending their position. Mr and Mrs O 
also want Pepper to acknowledge that they are allowed to pay the current monthly 
instalment plus £100 per month off the arrears.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I will summarise whats happened briefly. There are two reasons for this: first, our decisions 
are published and so I must take care that nothing in the decision can identify Mr and Mrs O. 
Secondly, in her letter dated 3 April 2020, the investigator set out in great detail all the 
events leading up to the complaint, including records of telephone conversations, emails and 
correspondence. As both Mr and Mrs O and Pepper have had a copy of that letter, there is 
no need for me to repeat all the detail here.
Reference in this decision to Pepper also includes its solicitors.
The complaint arose as a result of the following: Mrs and Mrs O have a mortgage taken out 
in 2007 which was previously with another lender but which is now owned by Pepper.  They 
borrowed £247,000 plus fees of £4,914 over a 21-year term on an interest-only basis. The 
mortgage is due to reach the end of its term in eight years time. Unfortunately the mortgage 
fell into arrears and in October 2010 the previous lender was granted a suspended 
possession order.
Throughout 2018 payments from Mr and Mrs O were erratic, partly because Mr O was 
abroad for much of the time. Pepper had difficulty contacting Mr and Mrs O to discuss 
payment arrangements, and any proposals that were made were not supported by evidence 
of income and expenditure. Furthermore, the payments offered wouldnt clear the arrears 
before the end of the mortgage term in 2028.
In October 2018 Pepper applied for leave to enforce the 2010 possession order. On 
5 November 2018 Pepper was substituted as claimant in place of the previous lender. The 
court ordered that no warrant may be issued before 20 November 2018. The order was 
made on the application of Pepper, without a hearing. (To be clear, there was no need for a 
hearing, as this was just a preliminary administrative step to ensure Pepper had permission 
to proceed to seek a warrant of eviction, if it decided to do so at a later date.)
Mr and Mrs O requested a copy of the court application, and had to do so several times until 
it was provided on 17 December 2018, after they complained. Pepper agreed it had taken 
too long to send the application and offered compensation of £100.
Mr and Mrs O made an application to court to suspend a warrant of eviction, which was 
heard on 8 January 2019. Pepper hadnt, in fact, issued a warrant of eviction, and so the 
judge dismissed the application, noting that the possession order of 2010 remained 
suspended on the same payment terms of the current instalment plus £100 per month. 
Dissatisfied with how Pepper had dealt with the account, Mr and Mrs O complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr and Mrs O say they had to pay a solicitor £400 and a 
further £255 court fee to fight the application made by [Pepper]. They say they have always 
been regular payers, and so when they received the court order substituting Pepper as 
Claimant in November 2018, they were very concerned about this. 
Mr and Mrs O say that Pepper deliberately withdrew from any engagement with them, in 
order to take possession of their home. They are also unhappy about legal costs added to 
their mortgage.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think Pepper needed to do anything more. 
She was satisfied the £100 for delay in sending the application to substitute Pepper as 
Claimant in the court proceedings was fair. But she was satisfied, after reviewing the 
payment history and the record of contact between Mr and Mrs O and Pepper, that Pepper 
hadnt acted unreasonably in relation to its handling of the arrears or the court proceedings.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs O have said about the court proceedings at the end of 
November 2018 and in January 2019. Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Os letters to Pepper about 
this, and the arguments theyve raised about whether Pepper had  or had not  applied for 
a warrant of eviction. 
But this matter was dealt with by the court on 19 January 2019 when Mr and Mrs Os 
application to suspend a warrant of eviction was dismissed  because Pepper hadnt applied 
for any warrant at that point. In the circumstances, its not appropriate for me to comment 
further on this issue. I dont have the power to interfere in a court order. I note Mr and Mrs O 
put together a bundle of documents in support of their arguments and this was considered 
by the judge before their application was dismissed. Because the court has considered the points Mr and Mrs O have made about Peppers actions, its not appropriate for me to 
comment any further on it.
The mortgage terms and conditions provide that Pepper is entitled to add fees reasonably 
incurred to the mortgage account. Im satisfied that Pepper is entitled to add legal fees to the 
account in relation to the legal work carried out in 2018 and 2019. 
Ive looked at whether or not Pepper has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly in relation to the 
mortgage arrears. The original possession order was made in 2010, when the arrears were 
(according to the account statements) just under £4,000 (as at 30 November 2010). Mr and 
Mrs O were ordered by the court to repay these at the rate of £100 per month. If theyd done 
so, the arrears would have been cleared in four years four months, so by about March or 
April 2015. 
But by October 2018 the arrears were over £8,000, so rather than reducing the arrears by 
making regular payments, Mr and Mrs O unfortunately missed further payments. This has 
meant that the arrears have doubled since the original possession order in 2010.
The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those 
facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the fundamental principles 
underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to receive payment of the 
money owed to it. 
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. UK 
Finance (UKF)  formerly the Council of Mortgage Lenders  also has its own guidelines 
about what it expects lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the 
requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
Mr and Mrs Os mortgage is already interest-only. Capitalisation of arrears will simply 
increase the amount they owe and cause the monthly repayments to rise, which, looking at 
the payment history, is likely to be unaffordable. Similarly, deferring interest for a short 
period of time would simply increase the debt, and is really only appropriate if there is a 
period of financial hardship which the borrower can show is temporary  for example, by 
providing details of a job offer, or where a borrower is about to return to work after illness.
In the circumstances, I think the options available to Mr and Mrs O and Pepper are very 
limited. The only viable option is payment of the arrears over a period of time. But any 
arrangement has to be affordable before Pepper can agree to it.
This means that Pepper is entitled to ask for information about Mr and Mrs Os income and 
expenditure in order to ensure that any payment arrangements are affordable and 
sustainable. I note Mr and Mrs O would like Pepper to agree to them paying £100 off the 
arrears for the remaining eight years of the mortgage term. But I think Pepper is entitled, 
given the payment history, to review any arrangements periodically to ensure they remain 
affordable and sustainable.Ive looked at the contact notes setting out what happened on this account in 2018. I think 
Pepper took reasonable steps to try to contact Mr and Mrs O to discuss payment 
arrangements. I do not find that Pepper failed to engage with Mr and Mrs O in order to take 
possession of their home (as Mr and Mrs O suggest) or, indeed, at all. 
I note in particular an arrangement to pay was agreed for six months with effect from 30 April 
2018. But this arrangement wasnt kept to. I appreciate Mr O was abroad and that he might 
have had some difficulty making payment by card. But a standing order could have been set 
up for the payments, or Mrs O could have dealt with matters while Mr O was out of the 
country.
In any event, I can see that there was a considerable amount of engagement between Mr 
and Mrs O and Pepper, up until the end of June 2018. After that there was no contact until 
Mr O telephoned Pepper on 25 September 2018, and the payment arrangement reached in 
April was at that point three months in default. 
In October 2018 when Mr O spoke to Pepper, there were no proposals to address the 
arrears or to bring the payment arrangement up to date, other than a proposal to pay £50 
per month, which would not clear the arrears before the end of the mortgage term. As a 
result, Pepper applied to the court for leave to enforce the possession order, and the court 
made the order substituting Pepper as Claimant
Overall, I dont find Pepper has acted unreasonably or unfairly in the way it handled the 
arrears. The steps Pepper has taken to address the arrears are in line with its regulatory 
obligations under MCOB and with UKF guidelines.
I agree Pepper should have sent Mr and Mrs O the October 2018 court application for 
permission to enforce the 2010 possession order when they first requested it. But I think the 
£100 paid for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs O were caused in having to ask for this several 
times is fair and reasonable.
As far as the other aspects of the complaint are concerned, I dont think Pepper has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably, and so Im not going to order any further compensation.
I hope Mr and Mrs O are able to maintain the monthly payment and the amount required by 
Pepper to discharge the arrears. Its important that this payment arrangement is adhered to, 
particularly as the mortgage term has about eight years left to run. The arrears will need to 
be cleared by the end of the mortgage term. 
The Financial Conduct Authority currently has a moratorium in place on any recovery action 
by mortgage lenders which expires on 31 October 2020, and which might be extended 
beyond that. So at the present time, if there are further payment difficulties, Pepper wont be 
able to enforce the possession order. 
But I cannot emphasis enough to Mr and Mrs O the importance of keeping to any payment 
arrangement. The shorter the mortgage term, the fewer options are available to repay any 
mortgage arrears. I would also be remiss if I didnt remind Mr and Mrs O that at the end of 
the mortgage term in eight years time, the account is due to be repaid in full. If they have not 
already taken steps to set one up, Mr and Mrs O will need to have a repayment strategy in 
place to pay off the mortgage. An Independent Financial Adviser will be able to advise 
Mr and Mrs O on their options in this regard.
If Mr and Mrs O are continuing to experience financial difficulties, they might find it helpful to 
speak to one of the free debt advisory services, such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter. We can provide contact details for those organisations, if Mr and Mrs O would like 
us to.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs O wanted. But after taking note of everything 
thats happened, I dont think Pepper is required to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, in that Im satisfied the offer of 
compensation of £100 offered by Pepper (UK) Limited for delay in sending the October 2018 
court application to Mr and Mrs O is fair and reasonable. I dont uphold any other part of the 
complaint and so I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman