DRN-3271615
The complaint
Mr P complains about the service he has received in regard to his investments with HBOS 
Investment Fund Managers Limited.
What happened
After taking advice from HBOS between 2003 and 2010 Mr P took out several investments 
for which he paid an ongoing Annual Management Charge (AMC).
Around April 2019 Mr P found out that some changes had been made in 2012 which meant 
there were different shareholder classes available which wouldve attracted a lower AMC on 
his investments. So Mr P complained to HBOS asking why he wasnt told about these 
changes.
HBOS took some time to fully respond and offered £400 for the service they provided when 
looking into the complaint. They explained that investments made prior to 2012 remained 
unchanged unless a request was made to change them, or there was a fund switch.  
Mr P was unhappy with this response so brought his complaint to this service where one of 
our Investigators looked into what happened. Our Investigator didnt think HBOS had a 
responsibility to tell Mr P about the changes. Mr P disagreed providing more reasoning about 
why he was unhappy about this including the fact that he feels he has paid more in AMCs 
than he should have. Our Investigator considered what Mr P had said but still thought that 
HBOS hadnt acted unfairly. Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided a lot of information about the complaint and its clear to me how strongly 
he feels about what happened. I want to assure Mr P that Ive read and considered 
everything thats been provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some of 
what happened which reflects the informal nature of our service. 
Also, whilst my role is to look at everything in detail, its also to consider things in the round. 
This means that I wont necessarily answer every question or point raised by Mr P as Im 
satisfied that I understand the crux of the complaint. 
There has been quite a bit of correspondence between Mr P and our Investigator some of 
which I think has strayed from the original complaint made to HBOS. Mr P asked why HBOS 
didnt tell him about cheaper classes of investments which would have attracted lower 
AMCs. This is the crux of the complaint made to HBOS and what I have looked into.   
The very straightforward answer to the question is that the rules didnt say businesses had to 
make existing customers aware of situations like a new class of shareholder. I can see why 
Mr P thinks he shouldve been told however I dont think HBOS did anything wrong by not 
telling him as the rules didnt say they had to.
I know that a lower AMC wouldve saved Mr P money and he thinks he hasnt been treated 
fairly because of this. But there was no duty under the rules for HBOS to offer a different 
share class, however they wouldve done it if asked. This reflects the rules at the time.
Mr P and our Investigator also talked about the make-up of the AMC. Its more than likely 
that part of the AMC was being used to recover commission from the sale. Again, this was 
allowed under the rules at the time. And looking at the charges I think they were applied in 
the way the product documentation said they would be.
Mr P has said that other businesses automatically moved his investments to cheaper 
options. And this might be the case. But for the type of investments Mr P holds with HBOS 
this wasnt a requirement. 
HBOS offered Mr P a total of £400 for the service he received when they were looking into 
this complaint. I know this did take some time which added to the frustration of the situation. 
However in this set of circumstances complaint handling isnt something our rules let me 
look into so I cant comment on the appropriateness of that offer.
Also I think its important to say that HBOS is the product provider and its not their role to 
give advice. If there was a better option available for the investments, and there was, it 
wouldve been up to Mr Ps adviser to look into this
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied HBOS acted fairly and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr P and his investments. So I wont be asking them to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman