DRN-3219647
The complaint
 Mr R complains Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar Financial Services (JFS) unfairly 
charged him end of contract damages charges and excess mileage and recorded adverse 
information on his credit file.
 
What happened
 I set out the background to this complaint in an earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
In August 2015, Mr R entered into a hire purchase agreement with JFS for a new car. The
agreement was for a term of 49 months and consisted of an initial payment of £419.33 and 
47 subsequent payments of £419.33. If Mr R wanted to keep the car at the end of the
agreement, a final payment of £14,220 was due.
Mr R returned the vehicle at the end of the agreement term in October 2019. The car was 
inspected, and £400 worth of damage charges were raised. Mr R disputed these charges, 
but he didnt hear anything from JFS for a few weeks.
Mr R then received two letters on the same day dated 28 November 2019 and 29
November 2019 respectively. One letter stated your account was in default and the second
letter asked for a payment of £2,600 for damage and excess mileage charges.
Mr R consulted a solicitor who wrote to JFS on 12 December 2019 and raised a number of 
points with them. Specifically, they asked:
JFS to withdraw the default notice because no sums had been requested from Mr R 
beforehand
Confirmation of the date in which the letters dated 28 November and 29 November 
2019 had been posted.
Confirmation of the price the vehicle achieved at auction.
JFS to provide a copy of the agreement which allowed them to charge 14p per mile 
in respect of the excess mileage charges.
JFS to explain the criteria they used to deem the damage outside of fair wear and 
tear.
JFS recorded the solicitors letter as a complaint and issued its final response on 31 
December 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint and said:
The terms and conditions of the agreement stated the vehicle must be returned in
good condition commensurate for its age and mileage.
After a full inspection of the vehicle, £440.95 worth of damages were identified. But,
upon reviewing the inspection report, JFS agreed to remove the charge for the left-
hand front door because the damage wasnt sufficient to warrant the charge.
The excess mileage charges were stated in the agreement and remained
applicable.
On 28 November 2019, JFS made an adjustment to your account to show £2,633.85
was outstanding in respect of the excess mileage and damages charges. As the 
charges were shown as overdue on their system, a default letter was automatically 
generated. It said this was a statutory letter it was legally obliged to send.
The second letter issued to you detailed how the figures had been calculated. JFS
accepted the order of the letters could be improved and apologised for any distress 
this caused. It said they would review this going forward.
£2,656.92 remained due from you and this included an additional £53.07 for a due 
date change processed on 4 September 2019.
Dissatisfied Mr R brought his complaint to this service. He said his credit file had been 
affected and hed been declined credit because of this situation. To put things right, he 
asked for JFS to remove any adverse information recorded on his credit file. He also asked 
for the charges in respect of the damages and excess mileage fees to be waived, apologise, 
and remedy their procedures.
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. He considered the terms and conditions of the 
agreement and found the excess mileage charges had been applied correctly and were due 
and payable. He considered the photographic evidence with regard the damages. He noted 
the withdrawal of the charge for the left-hand front door but considered the other damage 
costs were also payable under the terms of the agreement and fell outside of fair wear and 
tear. With regard to the default, he found as the charges were due and payable. JFS, as a 
finance provider, are obliged to report true and accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. Because the outstanding amount wasnt paid, he didnt agree JFS need to remove 
the adverse information from your credit file. He didnt uphold the complaint or ask JFS to do 
anything further.
Mr R disagreed. He didnt feel JFS has acted fairly recording a default on his credit file whilst 
the matter was still under dispute or so swiftly. He accepted the outcome that the excess 
mileage and damage charges must be paid but asks that the adverse information be 
removed from his credit file.
In my provisional decision I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator and my 
reasoning differed. 
I explained Id summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Id done so 
using my own words. I also didnt respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. I explained no discourtesy was intended but instead I focussed on what I think are 
the key issues here. 
I explained our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I took account of the relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I 
consider having been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case, is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. I explained there are various 
rules and protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this 
complaint. The crux of this complaint lies in whether charges were correctly applied at the end of the 
agreement and whether the issue of the default notice and subsequent adverse information 
recorded on Mr Rs credit file was carried out fairly and reasonably by JFS.
Both parties reached agreement regarding the outstanding charges. Following the dispute 
raised by Mr R and his solicitor, JFS agreed to waive part of the damage charges and 
pointed to the contractual agreement regarding the excess mileage. Mr R accepted the 
remaining damage charges and excess mileage are due, but he remained of the view that 
the default notice was unfairly issued, and all adverse information should be removed from 
his record.
I said the investigator went into some detail as to why the damage charge and excess 
mileage charges were correctly applied and payable, so I said I didnt intend to repeat this 
again in my decision. I focussed on whether the default notice was issued correctly, and I 
said I wasnt persuaded JFS had acted fairly and reasonably in this respect.
JFS issued a Notice of Default Sums dated 28 November 2019, this confirmed an excess 
mileage charge of £2,192.90 and £440.95 for repair costs.
The second letter dated 29 November 2019 provided a breakdown of how the charges had
been calculated. It said:
If you dont get in touch to make a payment or agree a repayment arrangement with us, or
you dont let us know that you may not be able to keep to any agreed payment plan, we may
hand over your account to another company to recover payment. This means that we will no
longer be dealing with your account. Any company that we pass your account to, will be one
of our approved account purchasers, and they will contact you to arrange an affordable and
sustainable repayment plan based on your personal circumstances. This may affect your
credit file, so please get in touch if you have any concerns about paying.
I explained Mr R shouldve received the breakdown of the charges and had time to consider 
his position before the default notice was issued. I didnt find it fair or reasonable that the 
notice of default was issued before the detail of the charges.
I also found Mr R had remained in contact with JFS. He got in touch via his solicitor to 
dispute the charges within 12 days of receiving both letters, so I said in my view the default 
notice was issued too early, and so incorrectly.  JFS issued its final response on 31 
December 2019. It agreed to remove the £30 charge for a scratch to the door and applied a 
default to Mr Rs credit file in January 2020. I said I would normally expect to see at least 3 
months from the default notice to any recording on the credit file.
JFS were also aware Mr R remained in dispute and had brought his complaint to this 
service, so in my view it wasnt a relationship that had broken down but one of dispute and in 
these circumstances I would usually expect to see all action put on hold until an outcome 
has been determined. And I also noted that following the complaint waived one of the 
damage charges.
I pointed out the impact of recording adverse information has a significant impact on a 
consumer and so its important that due process is followed. I didnt agree its fair to say the 
system automatically issued a default notice for overdue charges that had yet to be sent to 
Mr R.
For these reasons, I said I was persuaded as the default notice was issued incorrectly it 
should be removed along with all adverse information from Mr Rs credit file once the agreed 
damage and excess mileage charges have been paid in full.
Both parties responded to my provisional decision.
JFS accepted my findings in full.
Mr R accepted my findings but asked that the adverse credit be removed before he makes 
payment in full. He feels very disappointed by the stance JFS took and has lost trust this it 
will do as it says and remove the adverse credit marker once he has made payment.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my findings, there is just the additional point raised by Mr R to 
address.
I appreciate Mr R feels he has not been treated fairly by JFS and is concerned about 
whether it will carry out the directions as set out in my final decision.
By way of reassurance, I should say that if Mr R accepts my final decision it is legally binding 
on both parties. So, once Mr R has made the payment in full, should JFS fail to remove the 
adverse credit marker, he can of course bring this part of his complaint back to this service.
Mr R has not made me aware of any financial difficulties in making the payment in full and so 
my decision assumes he has the means to do so. When he has made the payment, the 
adverse information should be removed from his credit file.
If, however, Mr R does not have the means to make payment in full I would expect JFS to be 
sympathetic and agree a payment plan based upon his financial circumstances but I should 
point out this may have an impact on his credit file.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I direct Black Horse Limited trading as Jaguar Financial 
Services to:
Remove any adverse information from Mr Rs credit file once all the outstanding
charges have been paid in full.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman