DRN-3444417
The complaint
Mr A complains about a loan from AvantCredit of UK, LLC, (ACUK), which he says was 
unaffordable. 
What happened
ACUK provided Mr A with a loan of £4,750 in August 2018. ACUK also added a £250 
administration fee to the credit amount. The interest rate was 35.51%, (49.8% APR). The 
loan was to be repaid by 23 monthly repayments of £296.69 and one monthly payment of 
£296.73. If Mr A made each payment when it was due, hed pay £7,120.60 in total. The loan 
was repaid in June 2019. Mr A said that the loan was to be used for home improvements. 
Mr A said that ACUK provided him with a loan when it was unaffordable for him, as he had 
many other loans and credit cards (at max limit) appearing on his credit file at the time. He 
had to take out further high interest loans to make payments for this loan.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld.
.
Mr A disagreed and responded to say, in summary, that he had raised similar complaints 
with a number of other loan companies that he had loans with during this period, and the 
majority had ruled in his favour saying they should not have lent to him in this instance. 
These loans caused him major financial problems, and he had to take out more loans at 
higher rates to pay off these existing loans. He was only able to get out of this cycle after 
getting help from family.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A
and to ACUK on 21 March 2022. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that Mr A had referred to decisions by other lenders. But Id said that we assessed 
each case on its own merits and it wasnt appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints as the circumstances could be very different.
  
When ACUK lent to Mr A, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its 
rules and guidance obliged ACUK to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that 
ACUK needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet his loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet these 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so ACUK had to think about whether Mr A 
could sustainably repay his loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that 
making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr A undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for ACUK to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on  
Mr A. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr As case, Id considered the 
following questions:
- Did ACUK complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did ACUK make a fair lending decision? 
Did ACUK complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr As loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
ACUK had gathered some information from Mr A about his income and it verified this against 
information available to it from a credit reference agency. It had also asked Mr A for a bank 
statement to verify his income and carried out credit checks. And ACUK had used 
information from data analysis to assess the likelihood of him falling behind with his 
repayments under the agreement.   
Mr A told ACUK that he was single and was a homeowner. ACUKs notes showed that Mr A 
had a monthly income of £3,664. His mortgage payments were £666, his credit 
commitments were £554.59, and his estimated bills were £524.92. The lender said that Mr A 
would have a disposable income of £1,621.79 allowing for a £100 buffer. In its final response letter, ACUK concluded that following its creditworthiness and affordability assessment, the 
loan was affordable and sustainable based on Mr As financial circumstances.
The lender provided this Service with its credit checks which Id reviewed. The credit checks 
showed that Mr A had 12 active accounts  two mortgages, one loan, seven credit cards and 
two current accounts. Hed opened one account in the three months prior to the loan 
application and five accounts in the six months prior to the application. The checks showed a 
red mark for Mr As credit card balance to limit ratio three months prior to the application 
although this was amber at the time of the credit checks. His revolving credit balance was 
£17,320 and his loan balance was £700. 
The credit checks also showed that four accounts were defaulted between June 2014 and 
December 2015, but Mr A had settled the default balances since. I appreciate that having 
some historic debt isnt automatically a barrier to taking on further credit. 
More worryingly, ACUK ought to have seen from its checks that in the 12 months prior to   
Mr As loan application, he had taken out 14 credit accounts with the credit borrowed 
totalling around £59,000. This amount included a second mortgage for £26,330 in May 2018 
and it appeared Mr A used this to repay at least eight of his credit accounts. Id also noted 
that a loan for £8,292 taken out in January 2018 was likely to have been used to pay off a 
loan for £6,713 taken out in October 2017.  But Mr A still had a relatively large amount of 
credit outstanding at the time of the loan application notwithstanding the earlier debt 
consolidation and debt repayment. Mr A had three large credit card balances totalling around 
£16,300 each near their respective credit limits. Id noted that a payment for £6,416 had 
been made in May 2018 to clear the balance on one of these cards, but the most recent 
balance was again around £6,400. Id also noted that Mr As current account was overdrawn.
 
Id said that simply performing credit checks isnt enough. A lender needs to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks show. Altogether I thought the relatively 
recent high amount of credit taken out by Mr A and the fact that his three credit cards were 
near their respective credit limits should have put the lender on notice that Mr As finances 
might be under pressure. And I thought they might also have reasonably caused doubt on 
the accuracy of the disposable income amount ACUK had calculated. 
I couldnt see that ACUK had asked for evidence of Mr As expenditure. Although it said that 
it had asked Mr A for a bank statement to verify his income, it hasnt said that it checked the 
bank statement for Mr As expenses. I hadnt seen the bank statement ACUK received from 
Mr A. So, I didnt know what expenses it would have seen on that statement, if it had 
checked it for expenses. 
Id noted that ACUK had estimated Mr As expenditure, but I didnt think it was reasonable 
for ACUK to rely on an estimate. ACUK knew when it lent to Mr A, that it was providing a 
loan to someone whose credit file suggested they were not a typical borrower whose 
expenditure could be reasonably estimated from data analysis. I thought it would have been 
proportionate here for ACUK to have taken steps to verify Mr As actual expenditure instead 
of choosing to rely on an estimate. 
ACUK said that Mr A would have a surplus income of around £1,621.79 which would appear 
to have left enough disposable income for the loan to be repaid. But ACUK was required to 
establish whether Mr A could sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.Looking at everything in the round, I wasnt satisfied that ACUKs checks went far enough 
here. I thought ACUK should reasonably have taken steps to gain a more thorough 
understanding of Mr As financial position in order to satisfy itself that he could repay the 
loan sustainably. Mr A was entering into a relatively long and expensive loan agreement. 
The loan was running for 24 months and Mr A was committing to repay £7,120.60 over that 
period. The loan wasnt being used for debt consolidation, so Mr As overall debt was being 
increased. Given the length of time Mr A was committing to repay the credit and what ACUK 
would have likely seen on its credit checks, I didnt think its checks were sufficient for ACUK 
to get a clear picture of Mr As finances at the time. 
ACUK was required to establish whether Mr A could make his loan repayments without 
being caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences. It could have done this by, for 
example, checking the expenses on the bank statements received from Mr A and if 
appropriate seeking further bank statements, asking for copies of bills and/or receipts for his 
expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing credit commitments. I 
couldnt see that ACUK took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think the checks ACUK 
carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But that in itself didnt mean that Mr As complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have likely shown ACUK 
that Mr A couldn't sustainably afford the loan. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did ACUK make a fair 
lending decision? 
Mr A had provided this Service with copies of his bank statements from around the time of 
the loan. Id reviewed Mr As spending on these in July 2018 to see what better checks 
would have shown ACUK. 
Im not suggesting that this was the exact check that ACUK should have carried out. Looking 
at Mr As bank statements was one way of achieving that although there were other ways 
that level of detail could have been established. But I thought that by looking at Mr As bank 
statements I would have been able to get a good idea of what better checks might have 
shown. 
I could see on the bank statements that Mr A had taken out a high cost loan for £4,000 a 
month prior to the loan application which wasnt shown on ACUKs credit checks. But more 
worryingly, Mr A had spent almost double his income on gambling in July 2018.  His 
spending on gambling was frequent enough throughout that month that it was more likely 
than not that it would continue in the same pattern and posed a risk to Mr A being able to 
repay the loan sustainably. In these circumstances, I didnt think that ACUK would have lent 
if it knew this, as I thought it ought to have if it had made better checks. 
So, I thought if ACUK had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks, it was 
likely it would have discovered Mr As relatively substantial expenditure on gambling. and the 
full extent of Mr As financial commitments. I thought ACUK ought reasonably to have 
realised that Mr A was over committed financially and that he was having significant 
difficulties managing his finances. Mr As finances werent stable, and I didnt think that 
further checks would have provided the assurance ACUK needed. 
So, I thought ACUK should reasonably have concluded that it made an unfair lending 
decision when it agreed to lend to Mr A. And, subject to any further representations by Mr A 
or ACUK, I intended to uphold Mr As complaint and say that ACUK needs to put things right 
as follows:-Putting things right  what ACUK needs to do
I understand that the loan has been repaid. As I intend to conclude that ACUK was 
irresponsible to have lent to Mr A, he shouldnt have to pay any interest, fees, or charges on 
the loan. 
So, ACUK should:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr A on the loan;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ACUK to take off tax from this interest. ACUK must give 
Mr A a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Mr A hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
ACUK responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary,:-
- It provided a list of Mr As 11 active credit accounts at the time of the loan. After 
taking its loan, Mr A would have new monthly unsecured credit commitments at an 
estimated £1,216.59 which was 33% of Mr As stated income.
- Mr As mortgage was £666 per month.
- Mr A would be left with monthly disposable income of £1,781.41 before general living 
expenses were considered. 
- As Mr A had a sizeable post loan disposable income after all his unsecured and
secured costs had been paid, it believed the loan would be affordable.
- It didnt estimate Mr As expenditure. This was supplied by Mr A.
- Mr A had provided it with a bank statement, but this wasnt accepted as it was 
missing information for the two weeks prior to the loan application and it required at 
least thirty days of transactions. It provided this Service with a copy of the bank 
statement it received from Mr A. It said that this document did confirm Mr As income 
and the income source and based on the other information it had, it was decided 
enough information had been collected to approve the loan. 
- It said that if the gambling transactions had been in the missing time frame from this 
statement it would have prompted a further review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
I note that ACUK provided a list of Mr As credit commitments in its response to my 
provisional decision. I had already considered in that decision Mr As outstanding credit. And 
whilst I appreciate that ACUK took Mr As outstanding credit commitments into account when 
it assessed his loan application, I think ACUK ought reasonably to have questioned why    
Mr A, who apparently had a high level of disposable income, had needed to take out such a 
relatively high and recent amount of credit. I think this should have put the lender on notice 
that Mr As finances might be under pressure and might also have reasonably caused doubt on the accuracy of the disposable income amount ACUK had calculated. And, as Id said 
above, I think the lender ought to have made better checks.
I note that ACUK said that it didnt estimate Mr As expenditure but asked Mr A to supply 
this. Bearing this in mind, I think it would have been proportionate for ACUK to have taken 
steps to verify Mr As actual expenditure in line with CONC 5.3.1(4).
 
CONC 5.3.1(4) said:
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment or its 
assessment required under CONC 5.2.2R (1):
1. (a) 
the firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it 
is reasonably foreseeable that it will differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement;
2. (b) 
it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of 
the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by 
the customer;
I cant see that ACUK took steps to verify Mr As expenditure. It doesnt appear to have used 
the list of current account transactions that Mr A provided to verify his expenses. As it said in 
its response to my provisional decision, it was decided enough information had been 
collected to approve the loan. 
I note ACUK said in its final response letter that as part of its application, it asked Mr A to 
provide a copy of his most recent bank statement in order to assist it with verifying his stated 
income. It said that its records indicated Mr A provided this on 3 August 2018. ACUK 
provided a copy of this document to us in its response to my provisional decision. 
I can see that the document Mr A supplied to ACUK was a list of transactions, but not a copy 
of Mr As bank statement. I can see from the list of transactions and balances shown on the 
document that the list wasnt a complete list of transactions for the period. There were 
transactions missing as the balances shown dont reflect the transactions made. This is 
apparent, for example, from the first two transactions on the list. On 11 July 2018 the 
balance was £-840.34. The next transaction shown was on 12 July 2018 when £1,000 was 
transferred into the account, but the balance was £-975.34. 
Mr A had provided a complete copy of his statement for the same account to this Service. 
The transactions missing from the list provided to ACUK appear to be Mr As gambling 
transactions. If ACUK had asked for a copy of Mr As actual bank statement to cover the 
period 13 June 2018 to 12 July 2018 and a complete list of his transactions after that date to 
cover the period it wanted to check, it was likely to have seen the extent of Mr As gambling 
Id described above. And as ACUK said in its response to my provisional decision, this would 
have prompted a further review.
 
As Ive said above, if ACUK had made better checks, I think it was likely it would have 
discovered the full extent of Mr As financial commitments and Mr As relatively substantial 
expenditure on gambling which posed a risk to Mr A being able to repay the loan 
sustainably. So, the additional information ACUK has provided hasnt persuaded me that I should change 
my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require ACUK to take the 
steps set out above under the heading Putting things right - what ACUK needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading 
Putting things right  what ACUK needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman