DRN-3076823
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the transfer of her ISA to Aldermore Bank Plc referred to as 
Aldermore or the transferee, from a third-party provider, referred to as the transferor.   
What happened
I understand that Mrs H completed a cash ISA transfer form when she submitted her 
application to Aldermore. However, in an accompanying covering letter it was clear that she 
held a Stocks and Shares ISA. 
In due course the transfer request was made, and subsequently rejected by the transferee.  
Although Aldermore maintains that it notified Mrs H of this, Mrs H is adamant that she didnt 
receive the letter. 
As no further instructions were submitted within the specified timeframe, the ISA matured, 
and the proceeds were transferred to a savings account and the ISA wrapper removed.   
Aldermore upheld the complaint saying it shouldve provided a better service. It offered Mrs 
H £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, however it doesnt accept 
that its responsible for any financial loss. 
Mrs H duly rejected Aldermores offer of compensation. She doesnt believe that its enough 
given the financial loss shes suffered. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Whilst Aldermore accepts that it made an error, it hasnt caused Mrs H to suffer a 
financial loss. 
Considering the conflicting information  between Mrs Hs transfer request form and 
covering letter  Aldermore couldve sought clarification regarding the type of transfer 
she was looking to make, and therefore it couldve provided a better service. 
Aldermores failure however to provide a better service doesnt mean that its now 
responsible for Mrs H not being able to transfer her ISA, or it maturing and the 
proceeds being paid into a savings account with the transferor. 
Its more likely than not Mrs H was sent a letter notifying her of the rejected transfer 
request. Aldermore did nothing wrong by providing this letter (or its original request to 
the transferor) in the post. It wasnt required to try and contact Mrs H by multiple 
different methods, and it has done nothing wrong by not doing so. 
Notwithstanding the above, looking at the business process, even if Aldermore had 
contacted Mrs H/sought clarification, the transfer probably wouldnt have completed 
in time based on the following timeframe: 
oThe ISA was due to mature on 23 December 2020, and Mrs H had to provide 
instructions by 26 November 2020. She sent the instructions on 30 November 
2020 which was received on 2 December 2020. 
oAldermore was unlikely to have sent the instructions on time, and even if it 
had, the instructions might not have been accepted. 
oThe new ISA account couldnt be set up until Mrs Hs existing ISA matured on 
10 December 2020  leaving just under two weeks before the ISA maturity 
date of 23 December 2020.  
oIn line with HMRC rules, Stocks and Shares ISA transfers can take up to 30 
days and there was no guarantee that the transfer wouldve been completed 
by the maturity date. 
In the circumstances, given the error for which Aldermore is responsible, the £100 
compensation is broadly fair and reasonable.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators conclusion and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In short, she said:
Shes received legal advice informing her that shes due substantial compensation for 
the error made by Aldermore. In the circumstances she wants compensation for loss 
of interest, and for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
She accepts that she made the transfer request on the incorrect form. Aldermore 
failed to follow her instructions as set out in the covering letter and sent the transfer 
request to the wrong department.  
The investigator hasnt considered the previous conversations shes had with 
Aldermore and the transferor. 
Despite what the investigator says about the timing, she was assured by the 
transferor that it would be fine. If shed been made aware that the transfer had been 
rejected, she wouldve re-submitted the correct application form. 
She wants to see a copy of the certificate of posting, as proof that Aldermore sent 
the letter dated 15 December 2020. And even if it had, it was too late.
The investigator suggests that there wasnt a problem with the post, but the request 
was made during a global pandemic in the run up to Christmas, so there were bound 
to be issues.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, I dont think 
Aldermores behaviour is such that the complaint should be upheld. In the circumstances, I 
also dont think the offer of redress is unreasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. Shes provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs H, and Aldermore, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
I think all the pertinent points that could be made in this case have been made very 
eloquently by Mrs H. However, I think the incorrect transfer request form submitted with 
covering letter is at the very heart of this case.
In my opinion, the transfer request form  and not the covering letter  was the basis upon 
which Aldermore was authorised to act on Mrs Hs behalf, and the basis upon which it was 
obliged to carry out her instructions to transfer. 
I understand Aldermore accepts that it couldve sought clarification from Mrs H about the 
type of ISA transfer she wanted to make. However, ultimately I think it was Mrs Hs 
responsibility to make sure that the she submitted the correct instructions on the correct 
form, regardless of any previous conversations she may have had with Aldermore or the 
transferor.
In the circumstances, I dont think it was for Aldermore to second guess which of her 
documents were correct. On balance, I think it was only obliged to act based on the transfer 
request form. In other words, in the circumstances I dont think Aldermore was wrong to give 
precedence to the transfer request form over the covering letter or endeavour act in 
accordance with her instructions in it. 
I appreciate what Mrs H says about Aldermore sending the transfer request form to the 
incorrect department  which is why she initially thought the request hadnt been sent. But 
because Mrs H submitted the transfer request on the incorrect form, it was highly unlikely to 
have been processed, even if it had been sent to the correct department. In other words, 
based on the incorrect form, it seems the instructions to transfer were unlikely to have been 
processed. 
I also dont think Aldermore was wrong to send the request in the post, despite Mrs Hs 
suggestion to send it via fax or email. Despite what Mrs H says, its a common method of 
delivery in these situations and I dont think Aldermore has done anything wrong by not 
sending the request via an alternative method of delivery. 
Im aware of what Mrs H says she couldve done if shed been notified of this issue in time, 
but notwithstanding the above points, theres simply no guarantee that the transfer request 
wouldve been completed within the allocated timeframe. Im not saying that under no 
circumstances could the transfer have been completed, Im only saying that there was no 
guarantee that it would, even if Mrs H had been notified.  
Aldermore is adamant that it sent her a letter on 15 December 2020, notifying her that the 
transfer request had been rejected by the transferor, which Mrs H says she didnt receive. 
Whilst its possible that Mrs H didnt receive the letter, I cant safely say that it wasnt sent 
just because she didnt receive it. 
I appreciate the point Mrs H makes about the proof of service, but unlike in some court 
proceedings Aldermore isnt required to produce a certificate of service, therefore I cant say 
it has done anything wrong by not doing so.  In my opinion, and on balance, I think its more likely than not a letter notifying Mrs H of the 
rejection was sent. However, its possible that there was an issue with the post  given that it 
was a global pandemic around Christmas time  so she probably didnt receive it. In other 
words, if there was an issue it wasnt of Aldermores doing, and I cant blame it for the 
actions of a third-party postal service.
 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think Aldermore was obliged to try and contact 
Mrs H through some other means. But even if I was to find that it shouldve, which I dont, on 
balance I still dont think that it would be responsible for the transfer request not going 
through or for any financial losses that Mrs H is claiming for. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, for the reasons set out above, I think the 
redress offered by Aldermore is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Despite 
what Mrs H says, the £100 isnt to compensate her for the time spent on this complaint 
based on her daily income. Its to mark the distress and inconvenience caused.  
I appreciate Mrs H will be very disappointed that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But in the circumstances, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give her what 
she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman