DRN-4506726
The complaint
Ms S complains that Evolution Money Limited mis-sold her a second charge mortgage 
(secured loan).
What happened
In 2019 Ms S took out a second charge loan with Evolution Lending Limited, a sister firm of 
Evolution Money. Evolution Money advised and recommended the loan to consolidate 
Ms Ss unsecured debts.
Ms S now complains about the loan. Theres a separate complaint about Evolution Lending, 
in respect of its lending decision. This complaint is about the advice Evolution Money gave 
her to take the loan out.
Ms S says that she was coerced into taking out the loan by Evolution Money. She says that 
she was vulnerable because of mental illness, and had recently come out of an abusive 
relationship and was now a single mother. Evolution Money ought to have taken her 
circumstances into account. She says she was in financial difficulty at the time, having taken 
out a series of payday loans and been subject to a County Court judgment (CCJ). Ms S 
complains that the value of her property and her income and expenditure were manipulated 
to enable the loan to go ahead  including leaving out a substantial commitment for car 
finance.
As the loan is on a variable interest rate, the monthly payments are increasing. Ms S says 
that she now owes more than she borrowed and that she is required to pay around half of 
her take-home pay to service the loan. She says it should never have been sold to her.
Evolution Money didnt agree it had mis-sold the loan. It said it specialised in loans for 
customers with past credit problems. It said it had a detailed discussion with Ms S about her 
circumstances  including credit history and income and expenditure. It said that Ms S had 
told it about the CCJ, but told it that she was disputing the debt as it was her ex-partners not 
hers, but the CCJ was still taken into account. Evolution Money recommended Ms S borrow 
£15,000 over ten years at an interest rate of 26.82% variable.
Evolution Money said the loan was then underwritten, including checking proof of Ms Ss 
income and expenditure, and a full affordability assessment was carried out. Evolution 
Lending then issued a mortgage offer, and then spoke to Ms S to confirm she understood 
the offer and wanted to go ahead. It said the loan was suitable and met Ms Ss needs at the 
time she took it out.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint.
My provisional decision
I said:
Ive dealt separately with a complaint against the lender, Evolution Lending. Ive 
provisionally found that the loan was irresponsibly lent, because:
Evolution Lending took account of benefits income as part of its affordability 
assessment, even though part of the benefits income was disability benefits 
awarded for the care and needs of her younger daughter  without checking 
whether that income was likely to be received over the whole term of the loan.
Evolution Lending did not take account of the help to buy loan secured over Ms 
Ss property or the payments that would become due under that loan from 2022 
as part of its affordability assessment.
Evolution Lending did not check information given by Ms S about her 
circumstances even though there were common sense grounds for doubting it. In 
particular it didnt note that a substantial part of her recent income included sick 
pay even though Ms S had said she hadnt had any time off work sick. Nor did it 
cross-reference this information with her credit file and note that there were 
substantial increases in her indebtedness and missed payments on existing 
credit around the same time as she was off work sick. It didnt therefore take this 
into account in thinking about whether the loan would be sustainable for her.
Evolution Lending didnt take appropriate account of the CCJ or the impact it 
could have on Ms Ss ability to repay this loan.
Taking all that into account, Evolution Lending didnt take proper account of 
whether the loan would be affordable and sustainable for Ms S. Had it done so, 
acting responsibly, its more likely than not it wouldnt have lent.
As the separate firm that advised Ms S to take this loan out, Evolution Money is not 
responsible for Evolution Lendings lending decision. But it is responsible for the advice it 
gave, including the requirement to make a suitable recommendation.
Ive listened to the calls Ms S had with Evolution Money and considered the 
recommendation letter it sent her. Having done so, Im not persuaded that it gave her 
any real advice at all. The calls with Ms S were focussed on understanding how much 
she wanted to borrow and then selling her a loan that met that requirement, as well as on 
her finances for the purpose of affordability checks  not on considering what, if 
anything, was suitable for her in her particular circumstances as they ought to have been 
understood.
The rules of mortgage regulation require an adviser to consider whether a loan is 
suitable, taking into account its customers needs and circumstances. And, in particular 
in relation to debt consolidation loans, an adviser should consider the costs associated 
with increasing the period over which debt is to be repaid, whether it is appropriate to 
secure unsecured debt, and whether it would be more appropriate to reach an 
arrangement with existing creditors rather than take out secured lending.
Theres no evidence Evolution Money gave consideration to any of this. It warned Ms S 
that consolidating her debt might make it more expensive over the long term, and it 
warned her of the potential consequences of securing it to her property. But giving a 
generic warning isnt the same as thinking about whether it was advisable to do so. 
Evolution Money didnt discuss with her, or give any consideration to, whether doing so 
was suitable for Ms S in her particular circumstances.
For the same reasons as Ive separately found that it was irresponsible for Evolution 
Lending to have lent, I think it was unsuitable for Evolution Money to have recommended that Ms S take out this loan. It ought to have noted from her payslips that  despite what 
she had said  she had taken substantial time off sick and enquired into that. It should 
have considered whether this related to the financial problems around the end of 2018 
evident from her credit file, whether there was a risk of a recurrence of the health 
problems that led to her taking sick leave, and whether there were grounds for 
considering whether a secured loan would be a sustainable solution for her. Had it made 
those enquiries, it would have learned more about Ms Ss wider circumstances and her 
vulnerable position, as well as the health problems that later led to her losing her job in 
the months after the loan was taken out.
Evolution Money also discussed with Ms S that her property was subject to a help to buy 
loan, and while it took that into account in assessing loan to value, it didnt consider the 
impact of making future payments on whether further secured borrowing would improve 
her financial position and be suitable for her. In my view it ought to have recognised that 
Ms S would be required to make interest payments to the help to buy lender for most of 
the term of this loan, even if not at the start. It also didnt advise Ms S to seek the 
consent of the help to buy lender for further secured lending  as, under the terms of the 
help to buy contract, she is required to do. In my experience, such consent is rarely 
given and so in recommending this secured loan Evolution Money may well have placed 
Ms S in breach of the terms of her help to buy loan.
In my view all this was relevant to whether it was appropriate to recommend that Ms S 
secure existing unsecured debt to her home, with the extra risk that brings if something 
goes wrong. Thats especially the case where, as here, the loan to value (including the 
main mortgage and help to buy loan) exceeds 100%.
Related to this is the question of whether it would have been more appropriate for Ms S 
to come to some arrangement with her existing unsecured creditors rather than take out 
an unsecured loan. Ms S told Evolution Money that shed considered this, and a friend 
had offered to look into it further. Ms S said that shed stopped making payments while 
waiting for the friend to get back to her  this was her explanation for the missed 
payments in late 2018  but that nothing had come of it. Evolution Money didnt follow up 
on this, or consider whether it might be more appropriate for Ms S to explore things more 
formally rather than take out a secured loan.
As I say, having considered the interactions between Ms S and Evolution Money, it 
seems to me that its focus was more on selling Ms S the loan she said she wanted, 
rather than giving her advice, or considering whether the loan was suitable for her. In my 
view, it wasnt. Based on information in Evolution Moneys possession and which it ought 
to have considered, there were real questions as to whether the loan would be 
sustainable for her, and whether consolidating her existing unsecured debt, exceeding 
her propertys loan to value, was a suitable course of action in her particular 
circumstances.
For those reasons, I dont think Evolution Money acted fairly and reasonably and I think it 
mis-sold this loan to her. Ive said that Ive also provisionally upheld a complaint that 
Evolution Lending didnt lend responsibly. In that complaint, Ive told the parties that Im 
minded to require Evolution Lending to remove the fees and interest it has charged from 
the loan balance and only recover the capital from Ms S. Im mindful that requiring 
Evolution Money to further compensate her for the financial loss from the lending would 
result in double compensation. And while Evolution Money should not have 
recommended the loan, the ultimate responsibility in this case lies with the lender which 
agreed to it.
I dont therefore think it would be fair to require Evolution Money to compensate Ms S further for the financial consequences of taking out this loan. But I do think that if it had 
not recommended it, her application would not have gone any further and the loan would 
not have been taken out. Given suitable advice, she might have reconsidered coming to 
an arrangement with her unsecured creditors rather than taking out further borrowing. 
Evolution Moneys recommendation caused Ms S distress and inconvenience in that she 
ended up with a loan that wasnt suitable for her and wasnt affordable or sustainable. 
While the primary responsibility for that lies with the lender, I think its fair that Evolution 
Money pays her £500 compensation for its part in what happened.
The responses to my provisional decision
Ms S said that she was pleased I intended to uphold her complaint. She said that shed 
already paid back more than she had borrowed. She said that the loan had caused her 
substantial distress and financial difficulties, including having to rely on the support of family 
to make the repayments, and having to default on other debts to keep up with this loan. She 
set out some of what she had experienced, and said that she didnt think £500 compensation 
was enough  its the equivalent of less than two months payments. 
Evolution Money didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said it made a recommendation 
based on Ms Ss needs and circumstances, and the advice given was appropriate. It 
explained to Ms S that it could only advise on its own loans. It was Ms Ss choice not to 
consider other options. All Evolution Money could do was consider whether any of its 
products met Ms Ss needs. Evolution Money said that the loan achieved the objective of 
reducing Ms Ss outgoings. 
Evolution Money said that Ms S had told it she hadnt had time off sick. She could have told 
it that she had. It agreed it could have questioned the December payslip, but says it acted in 
good faith and there was no reason to believe Ms S would have given more information if it 
had asked about it. It also pointed out that Ms S had not had time off sick in the two 
subsequent months. And it said it did ask about the help to buy loan, and took into account 
that it was for 20% of the propertys value. It is not responsible for whether or not Ms S 
complies with the terms of her agreement with that lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered what Evolution Money has said in its response to my provisional 
decision. But I havent changed my mind. I accept that Evolution Money only advises on its 
own products, not the whole of the market. But that doesnt change the fact that it is required 
to give advice, not merely to sell a loan. And in giving advice it should take into account that 
if there is no suitable option available it should not recommend a loan. 
As this was a debt consolidation loan it was also required to consider whether it would be 
better for Ms S to take alternative action such as entering an arrangement with her creditors, 
and whether it was appropriate to secure previously unsecured debt. That doesnt require 
Evolution Money to give debt management advice  but it does require it to take into account 
all the circumstances in deciding whether a secured loan is suitable. As I said in my 
provisional decision, it appears that in this case its focus was on selling Ms S a loan, not on 
considering whether it was suitable for her. 
In giving advice, Evolution Money is entitled to rely on what it is told  unless there are 
common sense grounds for doubting it. The fact that Ms Ss December payslip showed that 
there was substantial sick pay gave common sense grounds for doubting what she said about not having had time off sick. In my view Evolution Money ought to have asked Ms S 
about this, and carried out further checks  such as asking for earlier payslips. Had it done 
so I think its more likely than not it would have discovered Ms Ss health problems, which it 
ought then to have factored into considering whether taking a secured loan was suitable for 
her.
I think Evolution Money misses the point I made about the help to buy loan. Help to buy 
loans are interest bearing after five years  so Evolution Money ought to have considered 
the impact of starting to pay interest on Ms Ss financial situation. While it was for the lender 
to carry out the affordability assessment, this is also relevant to whether the loan was 
suitable for her. I also dont agree that Evolution Money couldnt have been expected to think 
about whether Ms S would be in breach of her obligations to the help to buy lender if she 
took this loan  in my view thats clearly relevant to whether this loan was suitable for her 
wider circumstances.
Putting things right
Overall, I remain of the view that this complaint should be upheld. Im satisfied that Evolution 
Money did not give proper consideration to whether this loan was suitable for her  in my 
view it was not. 
Ive taken into account what Ms S has said about the impact of this loan on her. I do think 
compensation is warranted  Ms S should never have been advised to take the loan, and its 
clearly had a substantial impact on her. However, I also need to take into account that she 
would still have had the debts she consolidated had she not done so. And I need to take into 
account that, in the complaint against the lender, I have directed the lender to write off all 
interest and charges. That benefits Ms S in that she would have had to pay interest on the 
unsecured loans, unless they would have been defaulted or she would have entered an 
insolvency arrangement had they not been consolidated. Its fair to take that benefit into 
account in determining fair compensation. I remain of the view that £500 is fair in all the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Evolution Money Limited to pay 
Ms S £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman