DRN-3708997
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on a 
wedding insurance policy he took out to cover his daughters wedding. 
What happened
Mr D took out wedding insurance with RSA to cover his daughters wedding. His daughter 
signed a contract with a professional photographer who shed researched and whose style 
appealed to her. Two days prior to the wedding the photographer emailed to say she 
couldnt attend for reasons relating to Covid-19. But an associate would carry out the 
photography instead. The day before the wedding that associate said she had caught Covid-
19 but had arranged for a different photographer to attend. 
Mr D says that photographer told him on the day she didnt normally do weddings of this size 
and had minimal instructions from the contracted photographer. Mr D and his daughter were 
unhappy with the photographs that had been taken and made a claim on their policy. They 
wanted reimbursement of the £2,400 theyd paid to the contracted photographer. RSA said a 
professional photographer had been sourced to fulfil the original contract and Mr D hadnt 
incurred any additional costs. So it didnt think the claim was covered by their policy. 
Our investigator said the policy covered the non appearance at the wedding and reception of 
the professional photographer or professional video operator contracted. Where that was 
the case it would pay the cost of photographers to take or retake photographs or refund any 
irrecoverable amount that Mr D had contracted to pay. He was satisfied that applied here 
because the photographer Mr Ds daughter had contracted with didnt appear at the 
wedding. He thought RSA should pay the claim in full plus interest at 8%. 
In response RSA accepted the claim was covered by the policy because the contracted 
photographer hadnt appeared at the wedding. But it didnt think Mr Ds loss was the full 
value of the contract; it thought it was reasonable to deduct from that any benefit they had 
received. It thought the photographer who had attended would have charged £1800. It 
argued the loss to Mr D was the additional £600 paid to the contracted photographer (less 
the policy excess of £50). So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy. The relevant part of the term 
relating to to Wedding photography and video says:
We will pay up to the amount shown in your Schedule of cover or the amount you paid for 
the original services (whichever is less) for the cost of photographers and/or video/DVD 
operative fees, re-hire of ceremonial attire, hair and make up stylist fees, incurred to take/re-
take wedding photographs or videos or refund any irrecoverable amount which you originally 
contracted to pay as a direct and necessary consequence of:
non-appearance at the wedding and wedding reception of the professional photographer 
or professional video operator contracted
Ive seen the contract between Mr Ds daughter and the professional photographer which is 
a contract for that photographer to attend the wedding. That didnt happen. And it doesnt 
appear the photographer who did attend had any specific connection with the contracted 
photographer; Mr Ds recollection is shed received minimal instructions from her. So I think 
that because the contracted photographer didnt appear cover is available under this section 
of the policy. And RSA now appears to have accepted that.
The issue is the extent of cover the policy should provide. RSA has cited case law in support 
of its position that this is a contract of indemnity and an insured must have suffered a loss in 
order for recovery under the policy to be possible. And any sums otherwise recovered 
reduce the amount payable by an insurer. I understand that and I dont think the legal 
position is in dispute. And so in principle I agree its reasonable to take into account benefit 
Mr D has already received in deciding what should be payable under the terms of this policy. 
RSA says as a photographer did attend the wedding a photography service has been 
supplied. Its valued this at £1,800 based on information on that photographers website. So 
it says the loss to Mr Ds is the amount he paid in excess of that (and to refund the full 
amount would result in him receiving more than a full indemnity). However, Im not sure the 
figures its quoting in relation to this are accurate. Its based them on current charges listed 
on the photographers website but Mr D has told us that at the time of the wedding the 
charge would have been £1,400.
In any case I dont think thats the key issue here. RSAs argument is based on the premise 
that the photographs which were taken are comparable to those that should have been (so 
the loss is the additional cost paid to the contracted photographer). However, I dont think it's 
as simple as that. Mr D has explained his daughter chose the contracted photographer 
because after carrying out research she liked the sample photographs shed previously 
taken and wanted photographs in that distinctive style. He says that photographer is one of 
the top ten wedding photographers in the country (which is supported by online information). 
And the photographers website describes her shooting style as within the realm of 
contemporary art, fashion, and reportage. The contract says the images will be in my 
signature style. 
But that photographer didnt attend the wedding. The photographer who did doesnt appear 
to have any direct connection with her or received any particular instructions on how the 
photographs were to be taken. And she describes her style differently as relaxed, fun 
documentary wedding photography with a creative and colourful twist. I think its therefore 
reasonable to say none of the photographs that have been taken are in the specific style 
Mr D and his daughter had researched, were expecting and had paid for. 
Given that I dont think it is right to take into account the photographs that were taken when 
considering what the loss to Mr D is. I think its more reasonable to say he and his daughter 
dont in fact have any photographs of the wedding in the style they agreed and paid for. 
Under the terms of the policy I think theyre therefore entitled to recover the full amount they 
paid for that service which hasnt been provided in its entirety. Putting things right
RSA will need to pay Mr Ds claim in full (less the policy excess). It will also need to pay 
interest at 8% simple on that amount from the date the claim should have been paid (28 
October 2021) until the date it is.
If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited will need to 
put things right by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman