DRN-2476960
The complaint
Mrs W complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) havent fairly settled 
her claim for damaged possessions under her marine transit insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs W sold her house and moved abroad. She took out a policy with RSA to insure her 
possessions whilst in transit. Unfortunately, some of her property was damaged in the move 
and when she made a claim on her policy, she was unhappy with the settlement she 
received.
Mrs Ws insurance was arranged through an agent. Mrs W sent her agent a list of items with 
valuations for these items. Her agent used this information to apply for the policy cover on 
behalf of Mrs W, which presumably was part of the service her agent offered. Once the 
policy was set-up Mrs W was sent the policy documents.
RSA said it thought the settlement was fair. It said some of the items damaged werent 
insured, which is why they didnt settle the whole claim. It said the literature sent out to Mrs 
W when she took out the policy was clear. They said it recommended she insured all items 
that were to be shipped, but they said any items that were to be insured, had to be listed on 
the valuation form. They said any items not insured would be shipped at Mrs Ws own risk. 
RSA said that as some of the damaged items werent listed on the valuation form, they 
would not cover the loss.
 
Mrs W said her agent completed the insurance application and the agent ticked a box online 
to accept the terms and conditions of the policy. Mrs W said that she understood all her 
possessions were insured and not only the items that were listed on the valuation form. Mrs 
W said she did not accept the terms and conditions personally and when she checked the 
insurance certificate it listed insurance for household furniture and personal effects of 
£4,000, so she assumed all her goods that were being shipped were insured up to this limit. 
When her claim was partly declined, Mrs W complained, she said she was unaware that all 
items should be listed, and she hadnt accepted the terms and conditions herself, so she 
thought she should get the full £4,000 that was listed on her insurance certificate, as she 
said her total damage to all her possessions was greater than this.
Also, when the settlement amount was paid for individual items, Mrs W didnt think RSA had 
done this fairly as they had stopped her £50 residual value on her dining table and hadnt 
paid the full cost for repairing the damage on her two oil paintings.
Our investigator took the view of not upholding the complaint as he thought Mrs Ws claim 
had been fairly settled in line with her policy terms and he thought she had adequate 
opportunity to review the terms. Mrs W didnt agree so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs W has moved abroad and the damage to her belongings will have 
added to what would have already been a stressful event. However, I dont think RSA have 
done anything wrong in settling the claim and Ill explain why. Mrs W may have some issue 
with her agent who set up the policy on her behalf, but as our service only has powers to 
investigate regulated financial services activities, Im not looking at that issue here. I can only 
look at whether the actions of RSA have been fair and reasonable.
I think the key issue to consider here is whether Mrs W knowingly entered in to a contract / 
policy with RSA to provide her with insurance and was she made aware of the terms of that 
policy. I think its clear that Mrs W has accepted she entered into the contract as she has 
gone on to make a claim on her policy. However, she said that she did not personally accept 
the terms and conditions of the policy. Mrs W employed an agent to facilitate her move 
overseas and I think it is reasonable to assume due to the nature of that service that Mrs W 
will have delegated some of the arrangements for the move to her agent, which may have 
reasonably included populating a form to apply for insurance cover. 
I have also looked at the information that was shared with Mrs W, as I wanted to see if Mrs 
W had visibility of the policy and associated terms and conditions. I can see that Mrs W was 
sent appropriate documentation related to her insurance policy twice, once before the move 
and once while the move was in progress. Mrs W didnt raise any issues with her agent or 
RSA in response to either of these communications. She first raised that she had a problem 
with her policy once she was going through the claims process and had issues with the 
settlement.
The documents she was sent included the policy terms and conditions, guide to moving 
insurance and insurance prospectus. I think Mrs W had ample opportunity to review the 
detail of the policy if she chose to. She said she reviewed the insurance certificate and it 
showed that she had £4,000 of cover for household furniture and personal effects. However, 
it is not unusual in insurance contracts, that the insurance certificate only provides a 
summary of the cover. It was Mrs Ws responsibility to review the details of the policy to 
check she was happy with it. The details of the policy went on to explain that Mrs W was 
only insured for items that she specifically listed out on the valuation form. Its my opinion, 
that all the relevant documents were shared with Mrs W and she also knew the role her 
agent was playing. Therefore, I think it is fair for RSA to settle the claim in line with the 
policy.
I have looked to see if RSA have applied the terms reasonably when they have come to 
settle Mrs Ws claim. RSA said they declined Mrs Ws claim on some items as it didnt 
comply with their policy terms. I have checked their documentation to locate the terms they 
have relied upon. I can see on the prospectus and valuation form it says under the section 
Completing Valuation Form:
Make sure that all items you require to be covered are listed on the valuation form and
Any effects you fail to list will not be covered
Within the pack sent to Mrs W, there was some documentation The importance of our 
moving insurance. In the section What do I have to insure? the documentation explained:
It is recommended that you take insurance cover on all items you ship, however, you 
can choose to insure only selected items if you wish. Please do remember that any 
items you chose not to insure will be shipped at your own risk and cannot be covered 
should they sustain any damage or be lost during the shipmentI can see Mrs W sent an email to her agent listing out items to be insured with item values 
against each item, which I think adds to the likelihood that Mrs W was aware of the 
requirements of her policy. The agent then used this information to populate the valuation 
form on her behalf. 
As RSA have applied the terms of their policy correctly and settled Mrs W for the damaged 
items that had been listed on the valuation form, I am happy RSA have fairly settled the 
claim in line with the value of those items. It is unreasonable to expect RSA to pay the total 
value of goods Mrs W had insured as not all her listed insured items were damaged.
Mrs W was unhappy at the amount she was paid out for her damaged possessions that were 
on the valuation form. There appears to be one item that remains disputed as RSA made a 
goodwill gesture in relation to the other item (dining table) which meant it was settled in full. 
Mrs W said the settlement for repair to two oil paintings was lower than she expected. I have 
checked Mrs Ws policy, and the relevant terms here is: where any lost or damaged item is 
part of a pair or set, RSA will only pay for the actual part or parts affected. A payment will not 
be made in respect of any undamaged parts. Mrs W had a quote to repair the damage to 
the paintings and RSA offered to pay this, so in doing so I think they have been fair as they 
have met the terms of the Mrs Ws policy. Mrs W did say that the repair to the frame of 
painting, meant further work was needed to the other picture frames in the set otherwise 
they would be de-valued. Unfortunately, the terms of the policy dont allow this and are clear 
that when damage is part of a set, only the damaged part will be repaired. RSA have acted 
fairly in applying the terms of their policy to this part of the claim.
In conclusion, I dont think RSA have done anything wrong and so I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont require Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman