DRN-3040538
Complaint
Mr K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly added interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft charged when it ought to have realised that he was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought Halifax should have realised 
that Mr Ks overdraft had become unsustainable for him in January 2016 and so it needed to 
refund all the interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ks overdraft from this point. 
Halifax disagreed with our adjudicator. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed Mr Ks overdraft in 
January 2016. 
By this point, Halifax would have seen that Mr K had been hardcore borrowing for a number 
of months. In other words, Mr Ks account remained persistently overdrawn for lengthy 
periods without returning to credit. Halifax has referred to Mr Ks salary being enough to 
clear the balance within a reasonable period. But its clear that this wasnt happening and  
Mr K eventually started turning to payday loans. Ive also looked at the other statements 
Halifax has provided and I dont think that those suggest that Mr K was sitting on a 
consistently large pot of funds available to clear his overdraft, in the way it appears to be 
arguing. 
So I think that by January 2016, Halifax should have stopped providing the overdraft on the 
same terms and treated Mr K with forbearance rather than adding even more fees and 
charges on the overdraft. 
As Halifax didnt react to Mr Ks overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. And as this led to Mr K paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a when he was already experiencing difficulty, Im 
satisfied that he lost out as a result of Halifax failing to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
So Halifax needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what Halifax needs to do to put things right for Mr K
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ks complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ks overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied 
to it from January 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact Mr K to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If Halifax considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ks 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the account from January 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr K along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ks credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Mr Ks complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman