DRN-3563908
The complaint
 Mr Y complains that Inclusive Finance Limited unfairly placed a late payment marker on his 
credit file.
What happened
 The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 10 June 2022, 
which forms part of this decision.
I provisionally concluded that in connection with Mr Ys loan, payments for which were due in 
September and October 2019, Inclusive Finance did not treat Mr Y unfairly when they placed 
a late payment marker on his credit file. In summary I said: 
In relation to the second loan that Mr Y took out with Inclusive Finance in July 2019, 
Inclusive Finance said Mr Ys September 2019 payment was due on 16 September 2019, 
but they didnt receive it until 24 September 2019. They said that was the position also 
regarding the October 2019 payment. That payment was due on 16 October 2019 but wasnt 
received until 20 November 2019. 
In both instances Inclusive Finance said they initially sent Mr Y emails and text messages 
informing him that his payments hadnt been received. And they said he was also informed 
that Inclusive Finance offer customers a seven days grace period within which to put right 
the failed payment to avoid an adverse credit reference entry. According to Inclusive Finance 
Mr Y failed to make the payments within the seven-day grace period. 
I have looked at Mr Ys loan account repayment record for the two months in question. It 
shows the dates Mr Ys payments were due: 16 September and 16 October 2019 and the 
dates the payments were received by Inclusive Finance which were 24 September 2019 and 
20 November 2019 respectively. 
So, based on that evidence, Im satisfied that the loan repayments for both of these months 
were indeed late. 
Inclusive Finance have said that as regulated lender, they are obliged to report customers 
accounts accurately to the Credit Reference Agencies. I agree. Financial organisations have a 
duty to provide accurate records of consumers financial history. That in turn helps other 
potential lenders and account providers to make more informed decisions on a consumers 
financial situation.
So, having regard to that obligation and the evidence I have seen I cant fairly conclude 
Inclusive Finance have done anything wrong by recording Mr Ys September 2019 and 
October 2019 loan repayments as late. Therefore, I dont propose upholding Mr Ys 
complaint. 
The parties did not respond to my provisional decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, and since there is no new evidence or arguments for me to consider that 
might have led me to come to a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional 
decision I believe my provisional decision still stands. In other words, my final decision is the 
same as my provisional decision.
My final decision
 My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman