DRN-4090024
The complaint
Ms F says that when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy the garage instructed 
by esure Insurance Limited to carry out repairs caused further damage to her car
What happened
Ms Fs car was damaged when she hit a deer. She says the car had a full service and 
diagnostic check the day before it went into esures garage (garage G) for repair and that 
no issues were found. But when the car was returned by garage G the heater wasnt 
working. Ms F thought the fault must be repair or accident related. Garage G told her she 
shouldnt drive the car, as there might be an airlock in the radiator. But Ms F had already 
driven it 100 miles.
Garage G took the car back and it was returned to Ms F after a month. esure didnt agree to 
repair the issues with the car (its heater, head gasket and an airbag warning light). It said the 
car had been sent to a dealership garage for assessment whilst with garage G and that the 
garage didnt think the problems were repair or accident related. esure said its senior 
engineer thought the cars worn water pump was the problem and had noted that it was a 
common issue on her type of car. It said garage G should have noted this and should have 
told Ms F earlier, so it offered her £150 for poor service. And it said if she provided a report 
from a dealership garage that supported her view it would consider that report.
Later, esure decided to send the car to another dealership garage. Ms F said that garage 
should be told about the work garage G had carried out, but esure didnt agree. It said cars 
were sent to dealership garages for those garages to diagnose faults independently  Ms F 
didnt get her own report, as esure had suggested. But she said esure should have asked 
the dealership whether, when the initial work was done by garage G, if the radiator wasnt 
bled properly and had an airlock, that would have caused damage to the heater and head 
gasket. She pointed out that the dealership garage esure had used had commented on the 
head gasket issue at her request. It said it couldnt say if it was damaged in the accident, but 
it said if there was coolant in the system that wasnt bled properly, that would have caused 
the car to overheat, and the head gasket might blow. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Fs complaint. He noted that given the cars age and 
mileage, wear and tear to it was likely, but he thought it was also likely that further damage 
had been caused during the repairs. He noted that problems emerged soon after the repairs 
were done, that there were no previous problems with the heating system and that garage G 
had carried out work in the area where the damage was located. He also noted that the 
dealership garage wasnt told what work was done by garage G, so any opinion from it was 
compromised. He said esure should pay for the repairs, but it didnt agree, so the complaint 
was passed to me for review. I issued a provisional decision as follows:
From the details Ive seen I dont think its clear what information, if any, was given to the 
dealership garage(s) about the repairs carried out by garage G to Ms Fs car. The 
investigator asked esure to provide such information to us, but it hasnt done so. And I cant 
see how a dealership garage can give a fully informed opinion about a vehicles issues if it 
doesnt know about the vehicles recent history. esure says dealership garages dont need 
that information. But in this case I think an independent review of the likely cause of the 
problem, as well as a diagnosis of it, was needed, taking into account the work recently 
carried out on the vehicle by garage G.
esure says the dealership garage told it the damage wasnt accident related and that it 
wasnt repair related either. Ive seen the email from the dealership garage to esure that 
says it cant confirm the head gasket was damaged in the accident. But I havent seen 
anything to show that the dealership garage referred to the repairs. esure says the 
dealership garage concluded that the problem was caused by the cars failed water pump, 
which its own engineer says is a common fault. It says the garage should have noted that 
earlier - hence the compensation offer to Ms F. But the dealership garage also told esure 
and Ms F that an airlock / coolant in the system could have caused the problem, so there are 
conflicting views that arent helpful. 
Given the age and mileage of Ms Fs car, I think there must have been a significant amount 
of wear and tear on its engine. The car was no doubt well looked after  but worn parts can 
fail at any time. Ms F drove the car for 100 miles before she noted any problems with it after 
the repairs were done, although I dont think thats conclusive in itself. Having said that, I 
think esure should have ensured that all the available evidence was presented to the 
garages it consulted, given the circumstances in which the issues arose. As the investigator 
pointed out, problems developed soon after garage G had worked on the car  in the area 
where the work took place  and there was no previous history of any issues.  
Based on the information Ive seen, Im minded to conclude that I cant be sure the issues 
with Ms Fs vehicle arose from the repairs done by garage G. But given the circumstances 
and the lack of persuasive evidence either way (which I think is something esure could have 
avoided, had it done more to try to resolve the situation) Im minded to uphold the complaint. 
I think it would be reasonable for esure to pay for half the necessary repairs, based on Ms 
Fs invoice, or provide a cash sum in lieu of repairs. I think it should also pay Ms F £300 
compensation, to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her by the way the claim 
has been handled. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. esure accepted them. Ms F 
showed that the car had a new water pump fitted in February 2020. We asked esure to 
comment. One of its senior engineers said that it was 21 months before the accident, during 
which the car was driven 27,000 miles. He said the manufacturers guarantee is for a year. I  
issued a second provisional decision, as follows:
esures decision not to repair the car was largely based on the fact that its engineer thought 
the cars water pump was worn, plus the dealership garages comment about there being no 
record of it having been replaced. When I issued my first provisional decision, I thought 
those points were significant -  as had the water pump not been replaced, it could 
reasonably have been seen as a possible or even a likely cause of the overheating. 
Therefore one explanation for the damage to the engine didnt involve garage Gs actions. 
esure didnt ask the dealership garage to comment on the evidence Ms F sent us recently 
about the new pump, but esures engineer said there would have been no record of it for the 
garage to find if the work wasnt done at a dealership garage. He didnt comment on the 
point we made about new water pumps normally lasting for at least 60,000 miles (Ms Fs car 
had been driven for less than half that distance) regardless of the manufacturers warranty.
Given the new information, I think it seems unlikely that the new pump was excessively 
worn. If not, its unlikely that it would have caused the overheating in the engine. esures engineer noted initially that undue wear is a common problem in water pumps made for this 
make of car. But my understanding is that it isnt vehicles of a type similar to Ms Fs car 
where the problem applies. And the dealership garages initial comment about the water 
pump related to the lack of evidence of it having been replaced, not to a common fault. It 
said a failure to replace the pump wouldnt have helped with the engines overheating. 
Im now minded to conclude that if the water pump is unlikely to have caused the engines 
overheating, its more likely than not that the damage was done in the course of the repairs. 
In particular, it seems garage G may have left coolant in the system that shouldnt have been 
there. The dealership garages independent review was limited by not having any 
information about the repair work to consider - but it told Ms F that undrained coolant could 
have caused overheating. I still cant be certain what caused the problems with the engine, 
but on the balance of probabilities, I now think the repairer is likely to have been at fault. 
Ms F told us recently that she hasnt had the car repaired, so Im minded to say that esure 
should arrange and pay for the full cost of the repairs at a dealership garage, as well as 
paying Ms F £300 in total for distress and inconvenience.   
I asked the parties to comment on my further provisional findings. Ms F accepted them and 
esure said it had nothing to add.  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party commented on my second provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the reasoning and findings set out in it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that - for the reasons set out above - I uphold this complaint. I require 
esure Insurance Limited to arrange and pay for the full cost of the repairs to Ms Fs car at a 
dealership garage, as well as paying her £300 in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman