DRN-4217451
The complaint
Mr M complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds handling of his motor 
insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr M has car insurance underwritten by Admiral. He made a claim in May 2022 after his car 
was stolen. The car was recovered but was damaged and required significant repairs.
Admiral couldnt find an approved repairer to take the car, so it was taken to a local repair 
centre.
The first estimate of repair costs provided (around three weeks after the claim date) had 
insufficient detail and costings. It took around two months to get a further estimate. Admiral 
then took three weeks to approve the estimate. And parts werent ordered until three weeks 
after that  in early September 2022.
Mr M complained to Admiral about the delays and loss of use of his car. They paid him £50 
in compensation for the delays and arranged a hire car. Mr M was without use of a car 
between the date of the claim  23 May 2022 - and 29 June 2022.
The hire car originally offered was much smaller than Mr Ms car and didnt suit his familys 
needs, so it was upgraded.
In December 2022, in their final response to his complaint(s), Admiral offered Mr M a further 
£250 in compensation for on-going delays and poor service. Mr M wasnt happy with that 
and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Admiral should pay an additional £250 (over and 
above the £250 they offered) in compensation to Mr M, given the severity of the delays and 
poor service.
Admiral accepted our investigators view, but Mr M wasnt happy with it and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. 
He thought the compensation wasnt sufficient because of the extreme delays and the very 
poor customer service. 
He said hed also had to pay £90 per month for the upgrade to the hire car. He said his car 
had depreciated over the time of the claim and had lost its full service history. And he said 
hed paid £1,500 for an insurance policy, in order to keep his no claims bonus, when he 
hadnt actually had his car to drive for most of the policy year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I should make it clear what I can and cant consider in making my decision in this 
case. 
The Financial Conduct Authority rules which govern the way our service operates (the 
dispute resolution or DISP rules) say  in essence - that we can only consider a complaint 
that the respondent business has already had the chance to consider and resolve 
themselves.
So, in this decision, I can only look at the complaint(s) Mr M made to Admiral in 2022. And, 
by definition, I can only look at things that had happened up to the point Admiral gave their 
final response to Mr Ms most recent complaint  which they did on 8 December 2022. 
I understand the clam has been on-going after 8 December 2022. If things have happened 
since then that Mr M is unhappy about, he can make a further complaint to Admiral - and 
then refer it to us if hes unhappy with Admirals response. 
So, in this decision, Im looking at the delays and poor service up to 8 December 2022 only. 
And Im only looking at the things Mr M had already complained to Admiral about. 
As far as I can see, Mr M has not yet complained to Admiral about the depreciation of his 
car, the cost of his insurance policy during the relevant period or the loss of the cars service 
history. These were factors that Mr M added into his complaint to us only after our 
investigator had issued her view on the complaint. 
If Mr M wishes to raise these issues with Admiral now, hed be entitled to do so. Its not for 
me to comment on the merits of those complaint points at this time. And, for the reasons Ive 
already given, I cant look at them in this decision 
We asked Mr M how it had come about that he paid £90 per month to upgrade the hire car 
hes had since June 2022. He said the arrangement was made with the hire car company.
But hes been unable to provide any evidence that he made any payment to the hire car 
company at all. In fact, he says the invoices for the hire car payments have been sent to 
Admiral rather than to him.
There were very significant delays with the claim. Mr M had to chase progress continually, 
often didnt get answers to his legitimate queries and was on occasion promised call backs 
and didnt get them.
That must tave been frustrating and stressful for Mr M. And Admiral have admitted they 
didnt provide the service Mr M was entitled to expect.
Its also true that Admiral appear on several occasions to have attempted to pass Mr M off 
on to the repairer. And in fact, claimed that because it was a non-approved repairer, the 
problems with the claim and the repairs had nothing to do with them.
That stance was completely unjustified and unreasonable given that the non-approved 
repairer was only involved because Admiral couldnt find an approved repairer to take on the 
job. Its entirely unacceptable in those circumstances for an insurer to refuse to take any 
responsibility for answering a customers queries, explaining delays or other issues and/or 
ensuring progress is made.
Putting things right
So, I agree with our investigator that there were unacceptable delays in the handling of this 
claim and very poor customer service provided to Mr M. 
And I agree that the £250 compensation offered by Admiral  in addition to the £50 paid to 
him in response to his first complaint  is insufficient given the degree of the trouble and 
upset caused for Mr M as a result of Admirals errors.
However, I dont agree with Mr M that a further £250 compensation remains insufficient. I 
think £500 in total (in addition to the £50 previously paid) is fair and reasonable. I say this for 
the following reasons.
As Ive explained above, in this decision I can only look at the trouble and upset Mr M 
suffered up to 8 December 2022.
Thats more than six months. And Mr M experienced considerable stress and frustration in 
that period. But he was provided with a courtesy car from 29 June 2022.
Mr M was around 30 days without a car after the initial assessment ought to have been 
carried out (in late May 2022). We usually say £10 per day for loss of use of a car is 
reasonable. 
Admiral paid Mr M £50 compensation in response to his first complaint  which was partly 
about the lack of a courtesy car. So, a further £250 adequately reimburses Mr M for the 
period without a car.
After that, the actual inconvenience (as opposed to stress and frustration) to Mr M is 
relatively minor  particularly given that he was provided with an upgraded hire car.
So, a further £250 to cover the stress and frustration Mr M experienced up to 8 December 
2022 seems to me to be fair and reasonable.
Admirals claim notes show that Mr M declined the £250 they offered him on 8 December 
2022 in their final response to his complaint. So, Im assuming that hasnt been paid. 
Im also assuming the £50 offered in response to the initial complaint in mid-2022 was paid.
For the sake of absolute clarity, my decision is that Admiral should pay a total of £550 
compensation to Mr M, which would include any compensation payments already made to 
him since he made the claim in May 2022. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay Mr M £500 in total in compensation for the 
trouble and upset he experienced as result of their errors, in addition to the £50 already paid 
to him in mid-2022.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman