DRN-4290535
The complaint
Mr B complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation claim he 
made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In October 2022, Mr B was due to fly abroad on holiday. Unfortunately, on his way to the 
airport to take his outward flight, his car broke down. The car needed to be recovered and so 
Mr B wasnt able to reach the airport in time to board the flight. He cancelled the holiday and 
made a claim on his travel insurance policy.
UKI turned down Mr Bs claim. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered by 
either the cancellation or travel delay sections of the policy. And the policy didnt provide 
missed departure cover either. But UKI did accept that it hadnt handled Mr Bs claim as well 
as it should have done and so it paid him £100 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with UKIs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the claim was 
covered by any section of the policy, so he didnt think it had been unfair for UKI to turn 
down the claim.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his response. He felt that UKI had lumped the policy 
terms and conditions into a document which covered multiple account benefits. He didnt 
think most people would have seen or read the policy terms and conditions. He felt the policy 
made it clear that UKI covered cancellation claims and that therefore, his claim was valid.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think it was fair for UKI to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Bs policy and the circumstances of his claim, to decide whether I think UKI 
treated him fairly.
I understand that the situation in which Mr B found himself was outside of his control. 
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide 
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy.  Therefore, 
UKIs obligations under its contract with Mr B are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in the policy. 
I appreciate that Mr B feels that the policy terms have been lumped-in within the benefits 
set out in the account user guide. I accept that the travel insurance terms and conditions are 
detailed within the wider account user guide. But Im satisfied that the travel insurance 
contract terms are laid out separately within the user guide document and that the terms are 
sufficiently clear. The user guide also includes an at-a-glance summary of the cover, which 
sets out the main policy benefits and includes details of significant or unusual restrictions on 
the cover. Overall then, I find that UKI set out the travel insurance cover in a clear and 
understandable way.
Mr Bs policy says that UKI will cover the cancellation of a policyholders trip if cancellation is 
down to one of the following, listed, insured events:
1 (A policyholder) dying, becoming ill or injured. 
2 The death, injury or illness of a relative, close business associate or a person with whom 
you have booked to travel or a relative or friend living abroad with whom you plan to stay.
3 If you are called for jury service or as a witness or you are put in quarantine. 
4 An accident to a vehicle in which you were planning to travel which happens within seven 
days before the date you planned to leave which leaves the vehicle unusable (this applies to 
self-drive holidays only). 
5 If you are a member of the armed forces or police, fire, nursing or ambulance services 
which results in you having to stay because of an emergency. 
6 If you are made redundant as long as you are entitled to payment under the current 
redundancy payments law and that, at the time of booking your trip, you had no reason to 
believe that you would be made redundant. 
7 If the police need you to stay after a fire, flood or burglary at your home within 48 hours 
before the date you planned to leave. 
8 A medical practitioner advising you against travel for any reason.
In my view, UKI has clearly set out the specific, defined events for which it provides 
cancellation cover. Mr Bs trip couldnt go ahead because his car broke down on the way to 
the airport. This simply isnt an event which UKI covers under the cancellation section of the 
policy.
Ive considered too whether Mr Bs claim should be covered under the Abandoning your 
holiday and travel delay section of the policy. This says:
We will pay up to the following limits if the start of your pre-booked outward or return 
international journeys by aircraft, sea vessel or cross-channel train are delayed, due to 
circumstances outside your control. You must be delayed by at least eight hours on each 
occasion.
Its clear that Mr Bs trip wasnt abandoned due to a delay to his outbound international flight. 
Unfortunately, the car breakdown meant he missed his planned departure. This isnt 
something which is covered under the travel delay section of the policy. And this particular 
policy doesnt cover missed departure either.
Like the investigator, Ive looked carefully at the remaining sections of the contract. But there 
simply isnt any section which provides cover in the circumstances in which Mr B 
unfortunately found himself.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Bs position, I dont think there are any 
reasonable grounds upon which I could direct UKI to pay this claim. However, its clear that UKI didnt handle with Mr Bs claim as well as it couldve done. It didnt initially provide him 
with a written response to his claim; he experienced delays in contacting UKI and it didnt 
respond to a letter Mr B had written to it as quickly as it ought to have done. I dont doubt 
that this caused Mr B additional frustration on top of his understandable disappointment 
when he learned his claim wasnt covered. So I think its right that UKI recognised these 
service failings and paid Mr B compensation as a result. In my view, the compensation of 
£100 which UKI has already paid Mr B is fair, reasonable and proportionate. It follows that 
Im not telling it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman