DRN-3954585
The complaint
Mr L complains about the decision by AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to turn down his private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L holds private medical insurance cover with AXA. Mr L contacted AXA to obtain 
authorisation to see a cardiologist after being referred by his GP. 
AXA refused the authorisation. It said the claim was excluded from cover because it thought 
Mr Ls condition could be managed by his GP in a primary care setting. 
Mr L went ahead and saw the cardiologist, and paid for the consultations and investigations 
himself. He brought a complaint to this service about AXAs claims decision.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought the MRI arranged by 
the cardiologist could not have been carried out by the GP. Although AXA had referred to 
guidance which said Mr L should have tried three medications before being referred to a 
specialist, he thought the specialist had reasonably explained why the GP was correct to 
make the referral. He therefore recommended that AXA accept the claim.
AXA didnt agree to our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
4.15 GP and primary care services
Your cover includes access to the AXA Doctor at Hand service for video and telephone 
consultations as shown in the benefits table. We do not cover any other primary care 
services or treatment that would normally be carried out in a primary care setting. This 
includes any fees for services that a GP, dentist or optician could normally carry out, or any 
other primary care services.
AXA has referred to guidance issued by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) which recommends that three medications should be attempted before 
referral to a specialist. Mr L had been prescribed two medications by his GP. AXA thought 
the GP ought to have continued to treat Mr Ls condition using medication, rather than refer 
him to a specialist.
If the GP referral had only said they wanted the specialist to manage the condition, I could 
understand why AXA would say that the condition could be managed by the GP, given the 
NICE guidance. However, the GP also wanted the specialist to consider other 
investigations/input.
The specialist arranged for Mr L to have further investigations, including an MRI scan. This 
could not be done by a GP in a primary care setting. 
The specialist also explained that he thought the GP was correct to refer Mr L to him when 
they did (despite the NICE guidance regarding three medications), given Mr Ls previous 
very high blood pressure reading and additional symptom of palpitations. I agree with our 
investigator that this was a reasonable explanation. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont agree with AXA that the claim fell under the above 
exclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to pay 
the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum from the date Mr L paid the invoice/s to the date of settlement.
*If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman