DRN-2983172
The complaint
Mr C complains about Intelligent Advisory Services Limiteds, trading as Intelligent 
Insurance, communication when he purchased home contents insurance through its website. 
He also complains that it charged him a £50 cancellation fee when he later cancelled the 
policy.
What happened
At the beginning December 2020 Mr C took out home contents insurance using Intelligent 
Insurances website  a non-advised broker service. He was directed there after using a 
price comparison website to find a quote. 
Mr C answered a number of questions on the original price comparison website and this 
information was then transferred to Intelligent Insurance. The Intelligent Insurance website 
then gave him a quote from a suitable insurer which Mr C agreed to and cover was due to 
start at the end of December 2020. 
In mid-December 2020, Mr C contacted Intelligent Insurance to let it know hed previously 
had insurance cancelled, as hed noticed this wasnt accurately reflected in the answers 
submitted to the insurer. Mr Cs details were updated but the original insurer was no longer 
willing to provide Mr C with cover. Another insurer was able to offer a policy but at a higher 
premium. Mr C said he felt he had no other option than to cancel the policy. 
Intelligent Insurance then charged him a £50 cancellation fee. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair and so he complained. He didnt think the website terms of 
business were made clear until after hed taken out the policy. He also said a lot of his 
answers were default and he didnt think hed been asked a direct question about having had 
previous insurance policies cancelled. 
Intelligent Insurance didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr C was given the opportunity to tell 
it earlier about the previously cancelled insurance. It said hed had access to its terms of 
business prior to the purchase and these made the cancellation fees clear. It stressed that it 
was allowed to charge a cancellation fee to cover reasonable costs, providing there was no 
element of profit. 
Mr C remained unhappy and so he brought his complaint to our service. He highlighted that 
hed cancelled the policy within the cooling off period and had been honest when hed 
realised there were errors in the answers submitted.
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint  they felt the terms of 
business were sufficiently clear and they didnt think Intelligent Insurance had acted 
unreasonably. 
Mr C disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that this complaint is against Intelligent Insurance, so I will be only 
be looking at its actions and communication. So, whilst I appreciate Mr C may also be 
unhappy with the price comparison website, that complaint would need to be raised with it 
directly. Its not something I can consider here. 
Everyone agrees that when Intelligent Insurance received a copy of Mr Cs application 
answers, there was no information to suggest hed previously had insurance cancelled. 
I know Mr C is unhappy he was never asked a direct question about this. But Ive seen 
evidence to show the price comparison website warned Mr C that the quotes hed get were 
based on the assumption hed never had insurance cancelled. As Ive indicated, if hes also 
unhappy with this, this would be a complaint hed need to raise with the price comparison 
website. Ultimately, I think it was reasonable for Intelligent Insurance to provide a quote on 
the basis of the answer it had been given to this question  which was no.
Im also satisfied that prior to finalising the purchase of the policy, Intelligent Insurance gave 
Mr C the opportunity to review and change his answers and stressed the importance of 
doing so. Ive seen a review page which gave Mr C the opportunity to amend his application 
answers. It included a warning which said that the insurance would be based on the 
information provided to the comparison website, as well as any assumptions made in order 
to provide a quote. It stressed that the information in the application needed to be accurate 
and made it clear inaccuracies could invalidate the insurance. Had Mr C checked his quote 
through the amendment option, he would have seen that the question about prior 
cancellations was answered no and he would have been able to change it. So, I dont think 
that Intelligent Insurance has done anything wrong in the way it handled Mr Cs application 
and I dont think it was responsible for the incorrect answer being submitted to the insurer.  
Ive then considered the concerns Mr C raised about the cancellation fee terms not being 
made clear. I can see that when purchasing the policy Mr C agreed to Intelligent Insurances 
terms of business and that these were available on the review your details page shown 
prior to completing the purchase. These terms include a clear explanation of the fees 
including the fact a £50 cancellation fee would apply for policies cancelled within 14 days of 
purchase. I appreciate Mr C thinks this should have been more prominent, but Im not 
persuaded it needed to be. This isnt an unusual term. And the terms of business are only 
two pages long  so are not so lengthy that they require a summary and/or key parts to be 
highlighted. Ultimately, Mr C had access to the agreement, was warned that it was important 
he read it carefully and agreed to proceed on this basis  and I think this is sufficient. 
Im also satisfied the fee thats been charged here is in line with the FCA guidance on the 
cancellation of policies within the cooling off period  ie. it is a fee covering administrative 
costs with no element of profit. So, I think Intelligent Insurances communication and the 
cancellation fee were both fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C but for the reasons outlined 
above, I dont think Intelligent Insurance has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman