DRN-4360314
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank plc held them liable for a cash withdrawal they 
never received.
What happened
Mr W was the account holder who experienced the problem. He explained that he was using
his wifes debit card on their joint account to withdraw £250 from an automated teller
machine (ATM). This was something they did regularly to manage their housekeeping.
Mr W said that he entered the card into the ATM and the machine put a message on the
screen that it was processing the request. After about five minutes Mr W still hadnt received
either his card back or his cash and approached the business who hosted the ATM. They
told Mr W they couldnt help as the ATM was operated by someone else.
Mr W returned home and noticed that his account had been reduced by £250 from the cash
withdrawal hed attempted earlier. He spoke to TSB about it at the time who arranged for a
temporary refund to be made the joint account.
TSB asked the operator of the ATM to check the machine and the various audit records to
check the transaction. They told TSB that the withdrawal was completed normally. Once
TSB received this evidence, they told Mr W and Mrs W that they were going to remove the
refund from them and hold them liable for the transaction.
Both Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy with this decision taken by TSB and argued that theyd
never received any funds. They told TSB that theyd returned the following day and
withdrawn £250 from a different ATM next to the one theyd used previously. They noticed a
handwritten note on that ATM. It appeared that the business hosting the ATM had put the
note on it and Mr W and Mrs W thought this was due to other reports of problems with it.
They complained to TSB about what had happened and were told their complaint wouldnt
be upheld because theyd already received information to say the ATM was working and the
decision couldnt be overturned.
Mr W and Mrs W then brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an
independent review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. TSB were asked to
provide additional data about the ATM to check if the machine had been working correctly or
was subject to external interference.
Further details were provided to TSB by the operator, but the investigator didnt think that
TSB had complied with their obligations to show the ATM was operating properly because
some of the information they provided was in the form of conversations held with the ATM
operator, rather than specific audit reports from the ATM.
Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint was upheld although TSB argued theyd provided more
information than they were required to and disagreed with the investigators outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a
decision.
As part of my review, I examined all the evidence provided by both parties. I noted that part
of the additional information provided to TSB by the ATM operator was a report that
recorded, step by step, what happened at the ATM once the card was entered by Mr W.
This revealed there was a considerable gap in the transaction once Mr W put the card into
the machine. Specifically, the process starts at 13:30:13 hrs once the card is entered and Mr
W requests £250 cash. Theres then a gap until 13:37:47 hrs and the cash is dispensed and
the card returned with the complete process finishing at 13:38:04 hrs.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint on 20 
September 2023. In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold their 
complaint and offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in 
response. An extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much discussion has taken place about the standards of information provided by TSB. Its
the case here that TSB werent operating the ATM themselves, so relied on the operator of it
to provide those details needed to understand what had happened at the ATM. But, whilst
TSB werent directly responsible for the operation of the ATM, they are responsible for the
actions of their agent here (the ATM operator).
The relevant regulations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and specifically
S.75 which states that:
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided
by the payment service provider.
Plainly that means that once Mr W and Mrs W reported an issue with their withdrawal, it was
TSBs responsibility to prove the various systems (including the ATM) were working properly.
Ive added bold text above to highlight the specific obligation that lies with TSB in this
complaint. The evidence strongly suggests that the ATM wasnt operating properly because
a seven-minute gap in the withdrawal is, in my opinion, an unreasonable amount of time a
user of the ATM would be expected to wait. I doubt many people would expect to wait that
long and because of the delay, it appears that the cash and the card were taken by persons
unknown after Mr W left the area to return home.
S. 91 of the PSRs goes on to deal with the refund of transactions that are defective payment
transactions. In summary, it says where the transaction was defective, its the payment
service providers (TSBs) responsibility to refund the payer (Mr W and Mrs W) and put the
account back where it was prior to the transaction.As the ATM has been shown to have had some form of deficiency due to the unreasonable
delay, the obligations of S.75 havent been met and S.91 is applicable. On a broader
perspective, my current thoughts are that it wouldnt be fair to expect Mr W and Mrs W to be
held liable for the withdrawal, even though it was authorised. Thats because it wasnt the
fault of Mr W and Mrs W and they acted reasonably  even to the extent of waiting for about
five minutes to see if the card/cash would be dispensed.
Ive also considered the likely technical breach of the terms of the account because Mr W
was using Mrs Ws debit card. Although I appreciate that each user of the account should
use their own card, Mr W explained that they had a purse they used to manage their cash
and Mrs Ws card was in it at the time. Its clear that Mr W knew the personal identification
number for it and strictly this should only be used by the account holder. But here, any use of
Mrs Ws card by Mr W would be under an apparent authority and would create a
responsibility for Mrs W to be accountable for her cards use by Mr W. But, as the account is
a joint one then Mr Ws use of his wifes card in these specific circumstances would
essentially be the same as him using his own card to withdraw the £250. Theres no
evidence that the use of Mrs Ws card was without her authority, so I dont intend to
comment further about this issue.
Additionally, Im considering a small payment for the stress and unnecessary inconvenience
caused by the handling of the claim by TSB. They rejected it based on a limited amount of
data from the ATM operator when further detailed information was available. TSB have
argued that the agreement they have with ATM operators sets out what information they can
and should ask for. I make no comment on that agreement because TSBs obligations are
clearly set out in the PSRs.
If the ATM operator had given TSB the audit information they held at the time of the original
request, Im sure it would have been noticed that there was an unusually large time gap that
answered the claim made by Mr W and Mrs W, leading to a quick resolution of the problem.
But, this wasnt provided and led to unnecessary stress and inconvenience. Im currently
considering a payment of £100 for the impact this had on Mr W and Mrs W.
My provisional decision
Im currently intending to uphold this complaint and to request that TSB pay:
£250 refund including interest at 8% simple to account for the lack of use of those
funds by Mr W and Mrs W; and
£100 for the impact the handling of the claim had on them.
I invited Mr W and Mrs W and TSB to give me any more evidence and information they 
wanted me to consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties responded and 
accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.Putting things right
In order to finalise this complaint, TSB are required to :
Refund the £250 from the ATM withdrawal, add interest at 8% simple to account for 
the lack of use of those funds by Mr W and Mrs W from the date of loss to the date 
its refunded.
Pay £100 for the impact the handling of the claim had on them.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc and theyre instructed 
to settle the complaint as Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman