DRN-3628566
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received form National Savings and Investments
(NS&I) surrounding an attempted purchase of Premium Bonds.
What happened
In August 2016, Mr D called NS&I to make a £46,500 purchase of Premium Bonds. After
making the £46,500 transaction via his debit card, Mr D decided to cancel the purchase and
instructed the NS&I agent to whom he was speaking to do so.
Several days later, Mr D called NS&I again to ask why he had received documents from
NS&I regarding the purchase of Premium Bonds, given that hed requested for that purchase
to be cancelled. The NS&I agent that Mr D spoke with on this call explained that because the
debit card transaction had been made, NS&I had to wait until the transacted money cleared
with them, which could take up to seven days, before cancelling the purchase and refunding
the money back to Mr D.
Having been told this, Mr D informed the second NS&I agent that he wanted to keep the
Premium Bond purchase in place, and in effect cancel the cancelation. The NS&I agent
confirmed to Mr D that the process to cancel his purchase hadnt begun, and now wouldnt
be begun, so that his £46,500 purchase of Premium Bonds would go ahead.
In January 2022, Mr D contacted NS&I to ask why he hadnt received any winnings recently,
at which time he learned that the cancelation of his August 2016 had in fact taken place, and
that he didnt therefore have the amount of Premium Bonds that he believed he did. Mr D
wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
NS&I looked at Mr Ds complaint. They explained that theyd cancelled Mr Ds Premium
Bond purchase as per his initial instruction in 2016, and they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr
D wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the second NS&I agent that
Mr D had spoken to had given Mr D incorrect information which they felt had reasonably
caused Mr D to believe that he had a Premium Bond investment when in reality he didnt.
Because of this, our investigator recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ds
favour and that NS&I should calculate how much Mr D would have won in Premium Bond
prize draw winnings, had the £46,500 purchase gone ahead.
NS&I didnt agree with the view of this complaint put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 July 2022 as follows:
Its clear that when Mr D called NS&I for the second time to question why
hed received documents in the post for a purchase he believed hed cancelled, that 
the NS&I agent that Mr D spoke with on that occasion didnt provide Mr D with 
accurate information about what was going to happen on his Premium Bond account.
What should have happened is that NS&Is agent should have told Mr D that his 
request to cancel the purchase was already in the process of being actioned and 
couldnt be stopped at that time. This would have confirmed to Mr D that the £46,500 
would be reimbursed back to his bank account, and also that Mr D would have had to 
have made the £46,500 purchase again, if he wanted that purchase to take place.
What actually happened is that NS&Is agent told Mr D that his request to cancel the
purchase that hed made wouldnt now be actioned. And Mr D has explained that 
because he wasnt expecting the £46,500 to be reimbursed back to his bank account, 
he wasnt actively looking for it, and didnt notice that the reimbursement had taken 
place. Mr D has also explained that at the time he had a significant amount of money 
in his current account and also that he was moving house, which he feels were 
contributing factors into his not noticing that the investment purchase funds of 
£46,500 had been reimbursed.
I can appreciate Mr Ds position here, to a degree. But it remained Mr Ds 
responsibility to monitor his NS&I Premium Bond account, for which he received 
regular statements in the post until fairly recently, and as such I feel that it was 
incumbent on Mr D to have realised that the large purchase that hed instructed 
hadnt in fact gone through and wasnt showing on his account statements.
Additionally, even in consideration of Mr Ds personal circumstances at that time, I 
find it difficult to accept that Mr D wouldnt have been aware of a £46,500 
reimbursement into his current account. And while Mr D has provided a statement for 
his current account which confirms that it did hold a significant balance at that time, I 
dont feel that this balance was such that an unexpected £46,500 increase should 
reasonably have gone unnoticed.
All of which means that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably uphold this 
complaint against NS&I here. For while its correct that Mr D didnt receive accurate 
information from NS&I on the second telephone call in 2016, I feel that the long 
passage of time since that call, and the continuing opportunities that Mr D had to 
monitor both his NS&I account and his current account, means that Mr D should bear 
a degree of responsibility for what has happened here such that no compensation 
amount is merited in this instance.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr D was wanting, but it follows from this that 
my provisional decision here is that I wont be upholding this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision letter, Mr D advised he has no recollection of ever 
speaking with NS&I and requesting the cancellation of the Premium Bond purchase, or 
receiving a letter from NS&I confirming that the purchase had been cancelled.
However, NS&I have provided this service with recordings of the telephone calls in question, 
which I listened to as part of my initial review of this complaint. So, Im satisfied that Mr D did 
call NS&I on two occasions as described above. 
It also must be noted that because what ultimately happened is that a potential purchase of 
Premium Bonds didnt take place, it wouldnt be expected that NS&I would send a letter to Mr D confirming this. This is because there was no action  such as a purchase or sale  to 
generate such a letter. 
All of which means that it remains my position that NS&I havent acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that my final decision here will be that I wont be 
upholding this complaint. 
I realise this may come as a disappointment to Mr D, but I hope hell understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman