DRN-3911059
The complaint
Mr F complains about the handling by Lloyds Bank PLC of a request from his business to 
release a charge held against his residential property, which was given by him to support his 
businesss borrowing. 
What happened
Mr F has a business I shall call C. In early 2020, Mr F gave Lloyds a charge over his 
personal residential property as security for Cs overdraft. 
In late August 2020, with the overdraft withdrawn, C asked Lloyds for the charge to be 
removed. Mr F was seeking to re-mortgage his residential property to release funds to invest 
in other properties.
This request took much longer to process than anticipated. Lloyds initially indicated it would 
take just over two weeks; and, in late September, when Mr F continued to chase, he was 
told it would be completed in 24 hours. Finally, in late October 2020, the charge was 
removed.
Mr F said that, due to the delay, he had been forced to sell some investments to release 
funds and, even then, he had only been able to purchase one property rather than the four 
hed intended.
Lloyds apologised for the delay and paid C £350  £250 for the delays in releasing the 
charge and a further £100 for delays in considering Mr Fs losses. Lloyds said that, as Mr F 
hadnt exchanged contracts on the properties he was intending to buy when he had made 
the decision to sell his investments, there was no legal obligation on him to proceed. Lloyds 
also said that any gain or loss both on the investments and on the value of the properties 
was speculative. Lloyds said that it would not cover the losses claimed.
Mr F didnt think this fair and brought his complaint to us. 
We identified that there were two complainants, and therefore two complaints. 
Cs complaint against Lloyds related to the inconvenience caused to its business in 
pursuing Lloyds to remove the charge. We have considered this separately and our 
investigator found that Lloyds should pay C an additional £200 for the inconvenience 
caused. This was agreed by both parties and has been paid, so the complaint is 
resolved.
Mr Fs complaint against Lloyds related to the losses he suffered personally resulting 
from Lloyds delays in removing the charge on his residential property. 
It is this second complaint, relating to Mr F, which is the subject of this decision.
Mr F said that, as a result of the delays in the charge being removed:
He had been forced to sell some investments to release funds, which had not been 
his intention. Had he retained these investments, they would now be worth a lot 
more. 
He had only been able to access funds to purchase one property, whereas he had 
intended to purchase four. He had therefore suffered:
oA loss of capital gain relating to the three properties which were not bought, 
all of which increased in price subsequently
oA need to pay the additional 3% second-home surcharge as a result of the 
properties now costing above £40,000 each
oA loss of rent on the three properties for the period in which they would have 
been bought and rented
oThe loss of three deposits (at £250 each)
He said Lloyds should compensate him for all these losses.
Our investigator considered the complaint but said that, in her view, Lloyds could not be held 
responsible for the losses suffered by Mr F relating to the value of his investments as there 
was no obligation on Mr F to sell them. She also said that the losses relating to purchasing 
the properties later than planned would not have been suffered by Mr F but by the company 
he was using to purchase the properties. However, she did say that Lloyds should pay Mr F 
the cost of the deposits he had lost, ie £750.
Mr F did not agree and, as the matter could not be resolved, it was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2023 and invited further responses from both 
Lloyds and Mr F. Lloyds did not comment on my provisional findings. Mr F responded and I 
have reflected his comments below. However, having considered his submission carefully, I 
have not changed the outcome of my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Lloyds took longer to remove the charge on Mr Fs property than it 
should. A process which Mr F had been led to believe would take about two weeks took 
about eight weeks. 
Lloyds has apologised for this. It has settled the dispute with C through paying it in total £550 
for the inconvenienced caused. In this decision, it is for me to determine what compensation 
is due to Mr F.
I have considered each area of loss as submitted by Mr F, as set out below.
Loss of profit from increase in prices and foregone rents, and second-home surcharge
Having placed his deposit on four properties at the end of August 2020, Mr F did purchase 
one of these properties, completing in October 2020. However, the purchase vehicle was 
another company owned by Mr F, which I shall call S. S also purchased another property in 
November 2020. 
Mr F told Lloyds that in May 2020 he and his wife had set up S with the purpose of buying 
investment properties for their children.On the basis of this evidence, it appears likely that, had Mr F proceeded as intended, all four 
properties would have been bought by S. But, as a result, any harm suffered from buying the 
properties later than planned (eg from an increase in prices or from foregone rents or from 
the second home surcharge) would have been suffered by S, not directly by Mr F.
In response to my provisional findings, Mr F said that the property purchased by S in 
October 2020 had cost £7,000 more than it would have cost had Lloyds not delayed matters. 
He said that, as a shareholder in S, this had resulted in a personal cost to him.
I have considered whether Lloyds actions resulted in a loss to S, which would have caused 
an indirect loss to Mr F as shareholder. It appears to me that, with regard to all of the cited 
harms suffered from buying the properties later than planned:
At the time of the delay, Mr F had not exchanged contracts on any of the four 
properties he intended to purchase. Property prices go up and down and, while the 
bank may have been aware that Mr F wanted the charge released so he could 
access funds to invest in other properties, it was not foreseeable to the bank whether 
its delays would have resulted in a gain or loss to Mr F. 
While the estate agent has shown other properties which were available as 
alternatives to the ones which Mr F was unable to purchase due to Lloyds delays, 
these properties were clearly not exactly the same. Many factors affect property 
prices, and the price of these properties may be higher for other reasons. 
Mr F decided not to make other purchases immediately that funds were available and 
held on to this cash. It might be that, by the time he invests this money, property 
prices will have fallen such that he is better off than he would have been had he 
purchased the properties as he says he had intended. This may or may not be the 
case but the point is that whether the banks delays result ultimately in a gain or loss 
for Mr F is uncertain and speculative. 
Even if the charge had been released more quickly, it is not clear that Mr F or S 
would definitely have purchased the properties as stated. Mr F had only paid the 
deposit and contracts had not been exchanged, so there was no binding commitment 
to complete. There are many factors that can affect property purchases which might 
have caused Mr F or S not to buy these properties or, as market conditions evolved, 
Mr F might have decided to wait for other opportunities.
It is not clear that the delay in Mr F gaining access to the mortgage funds meant that 
S was necessarily precluded from purchasing the other three properties. It is possible 
that it could have sourced the necessary funds in other ways, eg through bridging 
finance. 
For these reasons, I do not believe I can hold Lloyds responsible for losses suffered by S 
arising from buying the properties later than planned (eg from an increase in prices or from 
foregone rents or from the second home surcharge). Given the uncertainty surrounding the 
investment opportunities Mr F had planned for S, and that property prices can rise and fall, I 
do not believe I can fairly say that this harm was foreseeable. 
In response to my provisional findings, Mr F also said that he was left with a large mortgage 
which had been drawn down in the expectation of purchasing four properties, which hadnt 
happened. However, Mr Fs use of these funds is a matter for him and, again, the resulting 
gain or loss is uncertain and not foreseeable. Therefore, I cannot say it has resulted in a 
harm for which Lloyds is fairly responsible.Loss of deposits
Although the properties are most likely to have been bought by S, it appears that Mr F paid 
the deposit for the properties. 
Mr F paid £1,000 on 27 August, which he later told Lloyds equated to four deposits of £250 
each.
However, in the completion statement of the one property which did complete, in October 
2020, it records that £1,000 was credited as the deposit paid. Although the other three 
properties were not purchased, it appears that the full £1,000 paid by Mr F was credited to 
the property ultimately purchased. 
On the basis of this evidence, it appears Mr F suffered no loss of the deposits paid.
Loss from unnecessary of sale of investments
Faced with the situation of not being able to purchase the properties he had reserved, Mr F 
sold a couple of investments to release funds. Mr F said that, had he retained these 
investments, their net value would now be higher.
However, at the time of selling the investments, there was no binding obligation on Mr F or S 
to purchase the properties. So Mr F did not have to sell his investments. Moreover, at the 
point when they were sold, it was not clear whether their value would subsequently go up or 
down, so it was not reasonably foreseeable whether a gain or loss would be made. 
For these reasons, I dont think it reasonable to require Lloyds to compensate Mr F for any 
loss he suffered from the sale of his investments.
Distress and inconvenience to Mr F
I acknowledge that Mr F will be disappointed with my findings above given the opportunities 
he believes would have been available to him had Lloyds not delayed in removing the 
charge on his property. However, for the reasons set out, I do not believe that the delay 
caused Mr F any loss for which I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible.
Nevertheless, I do believe that Mr F suffered some personal distress and inconvenience 
through Lloyds mistakes. I note that Lloyds has already compensated C with £550. In 
addition, I believe Lloyds should pay Mr F £500. I believe this would be fair compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr F in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr F £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman