DRN-3859305
The complaint
Mr B complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc. He says that HSBC mis-sold him a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy in 1997.
What happened
Mr B complained to HSBC, and it didnt uphold his complaint.
He then brought his complaint to this Service. Our Adjudicator considered it but didnt think 
that the complaint should be uphold either.
Mr B remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I know that this will be 
disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why.
Mr B says that he was sold the MPPI in branch and that he didnt request the policy. 
Unfortunately, HSBC no longer has any paperwork relating to the sale that took place  
however this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago  and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. I also wouldnt expect Mr B to remember much of what 
happened at the time either.
But because of this, I dont have enough to say that HSBC didnt give Mr B a choice in taking 
out the policy  and so I cant uphold his complaint for this reason. I do also think that Mr B 
was aware of the policy, as he cancelled it in 1998.
HSBC has said that its likely it advised Mr B to take out the policy  this means it needed to 
take extra steps to ensure that the policy was right for him. Having looked at what the policy 
covered, and Mr Bs circumstances at the time, it seems like the policy was right for him. I 
understand that Mr B says that he had savings, sick pay and critical illness cover at the time 
 but the MPPI policy couldve paid out on top of any sick pay he had, or provided cover 
should he have been made redundant, protecting his savings for other uses. And it also 
provided a different type of cover to a critical illness policy.
Its possible that some of the information HSBC gave Mr B about the policy wasnt as clear 
as it couldve been. But Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things 
that the policy didnt cover  so I dont think that better information wouldve prevented him 
from taking out the policy.  
Ive taken into account everything that Mr B has said, but these points dont change my 
opinion.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. HSBC has said that Mr Bs 
mortgage doesnt fit into these dates  and so HSBC doesnt have to refund any of the 
commission Mr B paid. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman