DRN-3800755
Complaint
Mr W has complained about loans Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable.
Background
118 118 Money initially provided Mr W with a loan for £1,000.00 in February 2021. This loan 
was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around £201. However, this loan was 
repaid in full in June 2021. Mr W was then provided with a second loan for £2,000.00 in 
November 2021. This This loan was due to be repaid in 12 monthly instalments of around 
£213. However, Mr W settled this loan in full within the withdrawal period and as a result 
wasnt charged any interest. As Mr W effectively withdrew from loan 2, weve only 
considered his complaint about loan 1.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr W and 118 118 Money had told us. And she 
thought that 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr W unfairly. So he 
didnt recommend that Mr Ws complaint be upheld. Mr W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr W complaint.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr W could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Ws application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr W could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr W has said he 
was in financial difficulty.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr W and 118 118 Money have said. The first thing for me 
to say is that 118 118 Money has provided a record of the results of its credit searches. 118 
118 Money searches appear to show that apart from a couple of late payment markers, 
which on their own wouldnt suggest that a lender shouldnt lend, Mr Ws commitments at the 
time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the credit searches, Mr Ws 
unsecured debt total at the time of the application was reasonable in comparison to his 
income too. 
I accept that Mr W appears to be suggesting that his actual circumstances may not have 
been fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the information 118 118 Money 
obtained. But even if I accept that 118 118 Moneys checks ought to have gone into the 
depth Mr W appears to be saying it should have  such as obtaining bank statements in the 
same way a mortgage provider would  despite Mr W having been provided with the 
opportunity to provide it, Ive not seen anything to indicate that the loan payments were 
demonstrably unaffordable. 
I also think that its important for me to explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to 
uphold a complaint in circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the 
circumstances here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies, I dont think that reasonable 
and proportionate checks would have extended into the level of checks Mr W is suggesting  
and even then we havent been provided with anything which demonstrates the loan was 
obviously unaffordable at the time either. 
As this is the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to 
lend to Mr W - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out 
which suggested the repayments were affordable. And, in any event, Ive not been provided 
with anything to suggest that doing more would have prevented it from lending either.
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman