DRN-2742152
The complaint
Mr G complains about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to retrospectively apply 
an exclusion to his private medical insurance policy and turn down a claim.
  
What happened
Mr G had private medical insurance with AXA through his employers group scheme. 
Then on 12 September 2018, he switched his cover to a new personal policy with AXA.
On 1 October 2019, Mr G asked AXA to authorise a transurethral resection of the 
prostate (TURP) procedure for that had been arranged for December 2019. AXA asked 
Mr G to provide further information from his treating specialist so that it could consider 
the claim.
A few weeks before Mr Gs procedure, the hospital asked AXA to authorise the 
procedure. AXA obtained medical information to assess the claim, and advised the 
hospital that the procedure hadnt been authorised. Mr G went ahead with the 
procedure anyway.
AXA then declined the claim. It thought Mr G hadnt told it material information about his 
health at the time of taking out the policy. It said if it had known that information, it 
wouldve added an exclusion to the policy, which wouldve led to the claim being turned 
down. It therefore added the exclusion retrospectively. Unhappy with this, Mr G brought 
a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He agreed with AXA that Mr 
G hadnt told it relevant information about his health when taking out the policy. He 
therefore found that AXAs decision to retrospectively apply the exclusion and turn down 
the claim was fair.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 March 2021. Heres what I said:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, the relevant law that applies is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive therefore 
considered the matter in accordance with the principles set out in CIDRA.
In order to first decide whether there was misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied 
that a clear question was asked, and that Mr Gs answer was wrong.
AXA hasnt provided a copy of the call where Mr G took out the policy. However, it has 
provided a membership guide that was sent to Mr G the day after he took out the policy. 
In that guide, it included the health questions Mr G was asked, and his answers. One of 
those questions asked:
Do you have any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests, 
planned or pending?
Mr Gs answer was no.
Im satisfied this was a clear question, and as a copy of the question and Mr Gs answer 
was sent to him, I think its reasonable to assume that this question was asked.
AXA thinks Mr G answered this question incorrectly. In reaching this conclusion, it has 
relied upon a letter from Mr Gs treating consultant (Mr E) dated 9 July 2018.
In that letter, Mr E referred to Mr Gs ongoing problems with his condition of prostatitis, 
and said that as all their options were failing, they were getting him to potentially 
consider a TURP procedure. Mr E said Mr G would try one further month of medication, 
and that he would follow up with Mr G in about six weeks. And that if Mr G was still 
failing at that point, they may consider the TURP option.
I dont agree with AXA that this evidence shows that Mr G answered the question 
incorrectly. Ill explain why.
Mr E planned to have a follow-up appointment with Mr G around six weeks after their 
appointment of 9 July 2018. That would be around 20 August 2018. However, we dont 
know what was discussed during that appointment, as AXA hasnt obtained evidence of 
this.
I accept that a TURP procedure had been discussed as a possibility in July 2018. But 
Mr G was going to continue with his existing medication before that option was considered 
further. And crucially, I note the TURP procedure took place over a year after Mr Gs 
policy started. That would suggest that it wasnt planned or pending at the time Mr G took 
out the policy.
This is supported by another letter from Mr E dated 27 November 2019. In that letter 
Mr E said Mr G continued with medication, but they had finally reached the time when 
they would consider a TURP for him. This was 14 months after the policy had started.
I therefore dont think AXA has shown that Mr Gs TURP procedure was planned or 
pending when the policy was taken out.
Whilst Mr Es letter from July 2018 refers to a follow-up consultation - that was planned 
for around three weeks before Mr G took out the policy. It seems Mr G isnt sure when 
that appointment took place. But AXA hasnt provided any evidence to suggest that that 
appointment was delayed until after the policy was taken out, or that Mr G had a further 
consultation planned or pending at the time of taking out the policy.
Consequently, I dont think AXA has shown that Mr G failed to take reasonable care 
when answering the question. It therefore follows that there was no misrepresentation, 
and that AXA cant apply the exclusion retrospectively.
I therefore intend to require AXA to remove the exclusion and deal with the claim.
Mr G says he had to borrow money to pay for the procedure, and has accrued interest as 
a result. Id be grateful if Mr G could provide details of this in response to this provisional 
decision. This service usually awards interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum, 
however, if Mr G has been charged a higher rate of interest as a result of borrowing 
money for the procedure, then I might require AXA to pay the higher interest rate.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make 
before I issued a final decision.AXA responded with the following points:
- It had requested the most recent clinic letter from the date Mr G had taken out the 
policy. It says that if the letter it received was the most recent clinic letter, that 
may suggest that the follow-up consultation happened after the policy was taken 
out.
- It thinks it should be given the opportunity to review any missing information 
before the claim is accepted.
- Mr G went ahead with his treatment even though it hadnt been authorised by 
AXA. 
Mr G didnt provide any further comments, and also didnt provide any evidence that hed 
accrued interest as a result of paying for the procedure himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA says it requested the most recent clinic letter from the date Mr G took out the policy, 
and that if the letter it received (from Mr E in July 2018) was the most recent, then this may 
suggest the follow-up consultation happened after the policy was taken out. 
I agree thats a possibility. But I think AXA ought to have established this at the time it was 
investigating the possible misrepresentation. Its apparent from Mr Es letter of 9 July 2018 
that hed planned a follow-up consultation before the policy started. AXA has no evidence 
that the follow-up consultation actually took place after the policy started and therefore that 
Mr G answered the relevant question incorrectly. 
As AXA hasnt been able to show that Mr G answered the question incorrectly, it hasnt 
shown that there was any misrepresentation. It wouldnt be fair to Mr G for me to allow AXA 
to obtain further information to see if its suspicions about possible misrepresentation are 
correct, when its already had sufficient opportunity to investigate this.
I therefore remain satisfied that AXA hasnt shown that Mr G failed to take reasonable care 
when answering the question, and so hasnt shown there was misrepresentation. AXA 
should therefore remove the exclusion and dealt with the claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to 
remove the exclusion and deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms. 
As Mr G has already paid for the procedure, AXA should reimburse him for this and add 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date Mr G paid the invoice to the 
date of settlement*.
* If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman