DRN-4011274
The complaint
Ms M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money hasnt responded to her 
requests to pay off the balance on her credit card account and change her address. She 
wants her credit card to be transferred to her new address, the adverse information removed 
from her credit file and an apology and compensation for the poor service she has received.
What happened
Ms M moved to England in January 2022 and needed to cancel her previously set up direct 
debit for her credit card payments and set up a new direct debit from a UK bank account or 
pay off her balance and transfer her account to her new address. She says she has tried to 
contact Virgin Money several times in order to pay off her balance and change her address, 
but she is being ignored. She says she is now receiving non-payment notices and this issue 
is having an impact on her credit file. 
Virgin Money issued a final response letter dated 30 January 2023. It said it was unable to 
find any letters received in February 2022 or March 2022 relating to change of contact 
information and when Ms M called on 13 July 2022, she didnt pass the security questions. 
Ms M was transferred to its fraud team, and identification and verification was requested so 
that Ms Ms account could be discussed but it said this hadnt been received. 
On 14 July 2022, Virgin Money received a report confirming Ms M had cancelled her direct 
debit. Because of this, arrears built on her account, and it wrote to her about this. It said all 
correct information was supplied to the details it held on file and the impact on Ms Ms credit 
file occurred because she cancelled her direct debit. It did apologise for the time taken to 
address Ms Ms complaint and that she felt her letters had been ignored and credited her 
account with £75 because of this.
Our investigator said that Ms M was unable to change her address when she called Virgin 
Money as she failed security and he noted that Virgin Money had provided a list of 
documents needed in order to change Ms Ms details. He didnt think that Virgin Money had 
done anything wrong by only sending letters to the address it had on file. He noted the credit 
file markers were the result of Ms M cancelling her direct debit and so didnt require Virgin 
Money to do anything in regard to this. He thought the £75 compensation paid was 
reasonable for the service issues Ms M had experienced.
Ms M didnt agree with our investigators view. She said it wasnt fair that while she is trying 
to make payments on her account she is being penalised financially (through interest 
charges) and through adverse information on her credit file. She says her circumstances 
mean she cant pass the security questions asked when she calls, and she has tried by 
phone and letter to resolve the issue but doesnt get a response. Ms M says she didnt 
realise when she cancelled her direct debit that she would encounter the issues she has in 
trying to set up a new payment. She wants the interest and charges applied to her account 
during this period removed along with the adverse information removed from her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating Ms M must have found her experience in dealing with Virgin 
Money. She emailed Virgin Money on 8 June 2022 saying she had tried to make contact by 
telephone, but the calls were unsuccessful and there were long wait times. In this email 
Ms M provides her previous details (name, address, telephone number) and her new details 
(name, address and telephone number). She also provides the amount she is paying each 
month towards her account and the bank details from which the payment is being made. She 
asks for her balance to be provided so she can pay this.
The approach taken by Ms M doesnt meet Virgin Moneys requirements for updating her 
details, and I can see the previous address details provided didnt match those Virgin Money 
held. So, I do not find it did anything wrong by not updating the details. It would have been 
reasonable for Virgin Money to provide Ms M with information of how to update her details 
but unfortunately due to the contact information it held any letters would have been sent to 
an incorrect address and her telephone number had also changed.
Ms M cancelled her direct debit payment in July 2022. I accept that Ms M was trying to set 
up a new direct debit payment but given the issues she had experienced in amending her 
details with Virgin Money I think it would have been reasonable that she kept her payments 
in place until she had managed to pay off her balance or set up a new payment mechanism. 
Because she didnt, the missed payments were recorded on her credit file and the 
associated charges applied to her account.
Virgin Money has acknowledged that it didnt provide the service it should have and having 
looked through the email chains and letters provided I think more could have been done to 
assist Ms M sooner. Virgin Money has apologised and paid Ms M £75 compensation 
because of this. I understand Ms Ms comments that the delays in responding to her had a 
much larger impact as interest and charges were applied to her account and her credit file 
was adversely affected. I do have sympathy with these comments but as Virgin Money didnt 
have the correct information on file (address, phone number or email) had it been more 
responsive these wouldnt have been to the right contact details. 
This is a difficult situation as Ms M had made it clear that she wanted to make payments 
towards her account, and I can understand why she feels that she shouldnt be penalised 
because she was unable to do this. But because Ms M wasnt able to pass security on the 
telephone and Virgin Moneys policy was to send letters to the address it had on file, I cannot 
say that Virgin Money did anything wrong by following its usual processes.
Virgin Money provided its final response letter through this service so that this could be 
provided to Ms M. This included information of what Ms M should do to get her details 
updated. I find this reasonable. Ms M did provide a copy of her driving licence but this didnt 
meet all the requirements set out in the final response letter. 
Since our investigator issued his view, he has been in contact with Virgin Money to ensure 
the information Ms M has sent is received and to identify what else is needed. Virgin Money 
has received the copy of Ms Ms driving licence and has noted what else is needed. I can 
understand why Ms M is finding this process frustrating but Virgin Money has provided the 
details of what is still required. I note Ms Ms concerns about providing proof of an address 
that she hasnt lived at for many years and this has been raised with Virgin Money. Virgin 
Money has confirmed that any formal document with the old address is acceptable. 
In conclusion, this is an unfortunate case and I accept that Ms M has tried to update her 
details and make payments. But due to the changes in her details and as previous details werent up to date this process hasnt been straight forward. While I think Virgin Money could 
have done more to assist Ms M, I find the compensation paid is reasonable. Virgin Money 
has provided details of the information that is still required, and I would expect to work with 
Ms M to assist in the process of updating her details. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman