DRN-3377840
The complaint
Mr G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) failed to repair a leak under his home 
emergency policy resulting in further damage to his home, causing him inconvenience and 
expense. He would like compensation for what has happened.
What happened
Mr G noticed damp patches on a bedroom ceiling, on checking the loft there were damp 
areas near central heating pipes. Mr Gs buildings insurance policy with Legal & General 
(L&G) also provided home emergency cover via an arrangement with IPA. Mr G called IPA 
but says the engineer didnt attend until the next day. Mr G says the engineer checked the 
pipework in the loft, confirmed it was okay and that the heating could be used. 
Mr G and his family needed to make an overnight trip and on returning he says water was 
still dripping from the ceiling. He says he called IPA, but it failed to send anyone out and later 
that day the ceiling collapsed. Mr G called L&G, who sent a surveyor to assess the damage. 
L&G accepted a claim on his building insurance policy and repairs were undertaken, 
including a full redecoration of the room. Mr G says a leak from a different area was 
identified due to aged pipework and his own plumber repaired this at a cost of £200. Mr G 
had to pay an excess on his L&G policy of £500 and say his premiums have been increased 
subsequently.
Mr G complained to IPA about its service, saying if it had solved the problem or reattended 
the ceiling wouldnt have collapsed. And, he wouldnt have needed to claim on his L&G 
policy or suffered the additional inconvenience of significant repairs which took several 
weeks to complete.
IPA said there was already water damage to the ceiling when it attended which would need 
to be addressed regardless. It said, there was evidence of a prior leak in the loft but when it 
attended the pipework was dry. It said some pipework had been incorrectly installed, so a 
repair wasnt possible. It said the engineer advised Mr G about this. It said it hadnt been 
made aware of the further leak and collapsed ceiling until around a week later, so it hadnt 
had opportunity to re-attend or alleviate the emergency.
But it said it would consider any plumbing invoices Mr G had incurred. And, in view of the 
lack of clarity over what happened when it initially attended it would uphold his complaint in 
part and offered him £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service, saying the ceiling had already collapsed when he 
returned from his trip. He said IPAs engineer hadnt advised him of any problem with the 
pipework which his own plumber said was correctly installed.
Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt uphold the complaint.
She said the £500 offered was fair compensation as the policy didnt cover the full costs of 
repairing the ceiling and redecoration, only the cost of sudden immediate situations such as 
stopping a leak. It also didnt cover the cost of making permanent repairs once an 
emergency had been resolved. As no leak had been found by the engineer our investigator 
said it wasnt reasonable to hold IPA liable for the collapse of the ceiling. It was already 
damaged and there was no evidence that turning the heating back on had caused the ceiling 
to collapse. 
Mr G said the policy covered burst pipes which IPAs engineer had failed to identify. 
As Mr G doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
I know that this will disappoint Mr G so I will explain why. I understand Mr Gs frustration 
about what has happened, and Ive taken account of everything he has said including the 
timeline of events which is disputed. 
However, I dont think this effected the outcome. I think this because theres no dispute that 
when IPA attended the ceiling was already damaged. So, it already required repairs and 
may have needed replacement even if it hadnt collapsed. And, there isnt any evidence that 
the direct cause of the collapse was because IPAs engineer hadnt identified or rectified a 
problem. Or, that collapse could have been prevented if IPA had reattended immediately 
after Mr G says he called a second time. Although Mr G initially told our service that the 
ceiling had already collapsed when he returned from his trip.  
The terms and conditions (T&Cs) of Mr Gs home emergency policy provide for: immediate 
repairs to stabilise and remove the emergency, such as: Burst pipes and sudden leakage. 
The T&Cs specifically dont provide for making permanent repairs, to make good damage 
caused by an emergency or for routine day to day home maintenance.
IPAs engineer reported that the pipework was dry and took several photographs which 
appear to show this. New looking brass fittings are clearly visible on these photographs, 
suggesting recent work on the system. IPA say the photographs show incorrectly fitted 
pipework, particularly relating to the pressure relief valve overflow arrangements, which may 
result in a leak in certain scenarios. It says its engineer advised Mr G about this. 
Mr G disputes being advised this. Or that there was any problem with the installation, but he 
hasnt provided any evidence about this or of his plumbing expenses. The only expert 
appraisal is from IPAs engineer and I think it is reasonable for it to rely on this. 
When the ceiling collapsed, Mr G says a local plumber identified a problem and made safe 
the situation. When he called IPA to complain a week or so later, Mr G said his plastering 
contractor had identified there was still a leak and stopped work until this was resolved. That 
suggests that there were several problems rather than a burst or sudden leakage. These 
may have been ongoing for some time, extensively damaging the ceiling before becoming 
apparent when water dripped through. 
Taking everything together I think the evidence points to longer term issues rather than a 
sudden emergency event. I think its likely that the ceiling already required significant repairs 
when IPA attended that were always going to be inconvenient and incur costs. As IPA found 
no active leak when it attended, and the policy doesnt provide for maintenance, I dont think 
it could be expected to do more than it did.
So, I think IPA has acted reasonably by accepting there was ambiguity about what advice 
was provided by its engineer. And by paying compensation equal to both the maximum 
cover offered by the policy and the excess Mr G paid on his L&G buildings policy and 
offering to consider his plumbing expenses, I think it has fairly resolved the complaint and it 
neednt do any more than it has. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman