DRN-3981641
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed an overseas payment, causing him additional 
costs. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
On 19 October 2021 Mr A went to a Lloyds branch to make an overseas payment. This was 
something he did regularly at his local branch. But on this occasion his local branch was 
closed so he had to travel further field to a branch where the staff did not know him. Mr As 
payment was to a country that requires a reason for the payment to be included. The staff 
member who processed the payment for Mr A did not include this detail in the payment 
information.
When the intended beneficiary had not received the payment three days later Mr A called 
Lloyds to ask what was happening. Lloyds says Mr A was told there were no issues with the 
payment, but that it could take up to four days for the payment to reach the beneficiary and 
so he should call back if it was not received within that timescale. 
Mr A called back on 25 October 2021 to say the payment still had not been received. Its at 
this stage that Lloyds realised the error. During this call Lloyds re-sent the payment with the 
correct information. Lloyds has accepted that the delay in the payment was down to an error 
made by its member of staff, and paid Mr A £100 to recognise the impact of that delay. At 
this stage Mr A explained that because of the delay he had incurred further costs. Lloyds 
explained that it would consider reimbursing him for those costs, but that it would need to 
see appropriate evidence. 
Im satisfied this was a fair and reasonable response by Lloyds at this stage. It had 
compensated Mr A for any distress and inconvenience caused by the delay and was willing 
to consider further evidence of costs if it was provided.
Mr A then provided some evidence on 19 December 2021, but Lloyds did not consider this to 
be adequate to prove the costs Mr A was claiming, so it asked for further documentation. 
Mr A sent further evidence to Lloyds on 21 March 2022, when he received no response from 
Lloyds he sent a further email on 8 April 2022. Mr A did not receive any further response 
from Lloyds until June 2022, two months later. In this response Lloyds explained that it still 
was not satisfied with the evidence Mr A had provided.
It is not for me to say that Lloyds should or should not accept the evidence Mr A has 
provided as proof of the costs he says he incurred. Lloyds has concerns about that evidence 
and it is reasonable for it to only be willing to cover Mr As additional costs if it receives 
evidence it is satisfied with. But I do think that Lloyds took too long to let Mr A know it would 
not be accepting that evidence. Mr A provided documentation on 21 March 2022 and Lloyds 
does not seem to have even acknowledged that until two months later. I consider that this 
delay will have caused additional distress and inconvenience to Mr A, and I think Lloyds 
should compensate him for that. 
Our Investigator has recommended that Lloyds pay Mr A an additional £100 for the delay in 
responding to his evidence, and I agree that is an appropriate award in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Mr A has suggested Lloyds may have discriminated against him because of his race and 
disability, given the problems he experienced. I can understand why he feels this way but 
having looked at all the evidence I dont think Lloyds has done so. Lloyds did make some 
errors, but Im satisfied those errors were the result of general poor customer service. So I 
consider that what Lloyds has already paid Mr A, along with what I am now recommending it 
pay in addition to that initial compensation, is appropriate to put things right. I hope that it 
helps Mr A to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
Putting things right
Lloyds should put things right by paying Mr A £100.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman