DRN-3320695
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) failed to refund premiums 
when she wasnt able to access the treatment she needed.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. 
In 2020, Mrs S needed to have treatment and wanted a hospital nearby. But the hospital had 
been taken over by the NHS in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mrs S says she was unable to have the treatment privately when she needed it despite 
paying her premiums for years. She says BUPA failed to tell her that the hospital wasnt 
available and she had to wait for treatment on the NHS. 
Mrs S complained to BUPA. It said it didnt own the hospitals but did send correspondence 
to all of its members to explain limitations and restrictions as a result of the pandemic. It said 
it would pass any exceptional financial benefit to its members after an independent review 
which it would complete in 2022.
Mrs S said she didnt receive any letters from BUPA and unhappy with its response, referred 
her complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think 
BUPA could be held responsible for the effect of Covid-19 on the availability of private 
treatment in hospitals.
Buts Mrs S disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The hospital is in Scotland and BUPA thought it was closed but it wasnt. BUPA knew 
hospitals werent doing private operations and policyholders couldnt access 
consultants  this was shocking at a time when Mrs S needed to use her private 
medical insurance but couldnt. 
BUPA acknowledged in its letter of 23 October 2020 that Mrs S had been wrongly 
advised that shed get her premiums refunded. Thats why she kept paying her 
premiums as she believed a refund was due. 
If Mrs S had been given correct information, she would have cancelled her premiums 
as BUPA wasnt going to be able to do anything for her within the timescales 
required. 
Just before December 2020, Mrs S called to cancel and was offered a free three 
months but only after she had decided to move to another provider. This isnt good 
practice. 
The NHS provided Mrs S operation as it was vital to be done by August 2020. There 
was no question of waiting any longer and she does not know when BUPA would 
have been able to deliver the service she was paying premiums for. 
And so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, largely for the same reasons 
as already explained by the investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly, fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Having considered everything, I dont think BUPA treated Mrs S unfairly for the following 
reasons:
The terms and conditions of the policy make up the contract between Mr and Mrs S 
and BUPA. The plan is for one year and monthly premiums must be paid for BUPA to 
provide cover for that year. If a policyholder decides not to pay their premiums, the 
insurance cover comes to an end. 
Insurance policies cover the risk of an uncertain event happening and insurers are 
entitled to keep the premium to cover the risk, even if no successful claims are made.
There is no term in the contract which entitles Mr and Mrs S to a premium refund if 
theyre unable to make use of externally provided medical services which they expect 
to be available. 
BUPA made changes to the services it provided in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic and there were additional services for its members such as access to a GP 
online.
Mrs S says she didnt receive any letters from BUPA but it has provided a screenshot 
of its system which shows that it did send correspondence about limitations to Mrs S. 
Its possible that Mrs S didnt receive these letters due to problems with the postal 
service which isnt something I can hold BUPA responsible for. 
Mrs S has made a number of comments in response to the investigators opinion which I will 
deal with below. I will address those comments which I consider to be key to my decision. 
Mrs S says BUPA thought the hospital was closed. The hospital was requisitioned by 
the NHS and as set out above, BUPA wrote to Mrs S to confirm the limitations and 
restrictions in its service. The hospital wasnt closed but it wasnt being used for 
private treatment. So, I dont think BUPAs misunderstanding makes any difference 
here. 
Although Mrs S says she wasnt able to use her private medical insurance when 
needed, BUPA did offer additional services to help where possible and would have 
authorised eligible treatment once the hospital started private treatment again. Mrs S 
decided not to wait as she was having her treatment on the NHS. And she was able 
to have her treatment sooner on the NHS than waiting for it privately. I havent seen 
any evidence that Mrs S called BUPA to discuss her treatment. She says she was 
told by her GP that her local hospital wasnt doing private treatments. And so, BUPA 
didnt have an opportunity to explore any other options for Mrs S. 
In its letter of October 2020 BUPA acknowledged the adviser had given Mrs S 
incorrect information about the rebate. But by this time, Mrs S had already paid her premiums from March to September. She had also called earlier, in August, and had 
been told that BUPA would be offering a rebate but that this hadnt been finalised yet. 
So although the adviser gave Mrs S incorrect information in the call of September 
2020, she was given correct information before and after this call in August and 
October which confirmed the rebate hadnt yet been calculated.  In addition, BUPA 
apologised to Mrs S for the incorrect information she was given and I think an 
apology is sufficient in these circumstances. 
Mrs S continued to pay her premiums until she decided to cancel in November 2020, 
a month after BUPA had clarified its position on the rebate. At this stage, BUPA 
offered Mrs S three months free which she rejected as she had decided to go to 
another provider. I dont think BUPAs offer was unreasonable as it was attempting to 
retain Mrs S as a customer. 
BUPA confirmed it would calculate any rebates by 2022 and that it would appoint an 
independent third party to review its data. I think that is reasonable. 
I appreciate Mrs S had her treatment on the NHS as it was urgent and that she 
doesnt feel she should have to pay premiums when she wasnt able to use the 
service. But as already explained, BUPA cant be held responsible for the effects of 
Covid-19 and BUPA did offer additional services. 
Overall, I understand why Mrs S feels she has been treated unfairly. But I havent seen any 
evidence that BUPA wouldnt have authorised eligible treatment when private treatments 
could go ahead again as Mrs S chose to continue with her treatment on the NHS. BUPA has 
promised to calculate a rebate by 2022 based on the premiums paid and individual 
circumstances. I think this is a fair approach to take. And so I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman