DRN-2922007
The complaint
Mr F complains on behalf of his building management company Ill refer to as B, that 
Fairmead Insurance Limited declined his claim on Bs home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F is the director of a building management company  B, that has been set up to manage 
the shared responsibilities of four flats in a building. B has insurance with Fairmead to cover 
the building.
In July 2020 the tenants of one of the flats reported hearing scratching in the ceiling of the 
kitchen. Mr F instructed a builder to look into the problem. The builder found that rats had got 
into the ceiling through a broken pipe under the kitchen floor. In December 2020 Mr F made 
a claim on Bs insurance. 
 
Fairmead initially declined the claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover for pipes under 
the kitchen floor rather than in the garden or under the patio. Mr F didnt think this was fair 
and made a complaint.
Fairmead responded to Mr Fs complaint and explained that the claim had been declined as 
the policy only provides cover for underground services and the damaged pipe identified was 
redundant, so not covered under the policy. It therefore said it had been right to decline the 
claim and didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr F didnt agree. He said the policy doesnt say it excludes redundant pipes, so he didnt 
think it was fair that his claim had been declined on this basis. He brought his complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that the policy only 
covers damage to underground services, and this meant pipes that provide a service to the 
property, such as waste or water pipes. She said as Mr Fs builder had said the pipe was 
redundant and sealed off, she agreed this wouldnt be covered under the policy, so thought 
Fairmead had acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F made a claim under the accidental damage section of the policy. In the policy wording, 
under what your policy covers, it states as follows:
Accidental Damage to underground services
We will pay for Accidental Damage to;
 domestic oil pipes
 underground water supply pipes
 underground sewers drains and septic tanks
 underground gas pipes
 underground cables
which You are legally responsible for
Mr Fs builder confirmed as follows: After extensive investigation. the source of the rodents' 
route into the property was found to be a redundant WC earthenware waste pipe that had 
been bagged off and sealed under the floor
So Im satisfied that the pipe that has been damaged isnt in use or providing any of the 
functions listed in the inclusions above. 
Mr F has said he doesnt agree with the definition Fairmead has used for underground 
services. He says that the policy doesnt say that it specifically excludes redundant pipes or 
that it only covers active pipes. 
Insurance policies cover a range of different services and perils, but they dont cover 
everything. While there are many things that arent covered, it wouldnt be possible for all of 
these to be listed within a policy, as the list would be endless. Instead insurers include what 
is covered. So just because something isnt listed as an exclusion, doesnt mean it will be 
covered.
In this case the cover for accidental damage to pipes is limited to underground services. 
While the policy doesnt include a definition of this specific term, this is a common term that I 
think would reasonably be understood to mean a structure built underground that provides 
services to a property. In this case the accidental damage cover goes on to list those 
underground services that are included. And all the services listed are structures that provide 
a service to the property. So Im satisfied that this is a reasonable interpretation of the 
definition. And while the policy doesnt say explicitly that this is limited to active pipes, I dont 
think a redundant pipe reasonably meets the definition of an underground service. As it isnt 
providing a service to the property. So I think Fairmead has acted fairly by declining the 
claim on this basis. 
Mr F has said that while the pipe in question is redundant, its attached to a functioning water 
supply pipe. So is part of an underground service. While I dont dispute this, the pipe that is 
damaged still isnt providing a service to the property. So I dont think this changes how the 
policy cover applies to the claim.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Fairmead has acted fairly by declining Bs claim. And I 
wont ask it to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman