DRN-3501195
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to 
make an income payment to him in a timely manner. He further complains that when it 
became apparent that there was a risk the payment would not be made in the current tax 
year Prudential incorrectly reassured him that it would be recorded in the current tax year 
even if it were actually paid in the following tax year.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in April 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of 
the provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this 
decision, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr C holds pension savings with Prudential. I can see that whilst we have been 
dealing with this complaint Mr C has raised a number of other matters of complaint 
with Prudential. And some of those complaints are being dealt with separately by this 
Service. For the avoidance of doubt, in this decision, I will only be considering what 
happened when Mr C requested an income payment to be made from his pension 
savings in March 2020.
Mr C has told us that he had taken income payments from his pension savings 
towards the end of the tax year for a number of years. He was supported in 
managing his pension savings by a financial advisor. The financial advisor was 
aware that Prudential implemented cut-off dates each year, by which time it would 
need any payment instructions to have been made in order for processing to 
complete before the end of the tax year. On 5 March 2020 Mr Cs financial advisor 
was told by Prudential that the instruction cut-off date for that tax year would be 
23 March 2020.
Mr Cs financial advisor submitted a request for an Uncrystallised Funds Pension 
Lump Sum (UFPLS) withdrawal on 12 March. On 16 March Prudential says it sent a 
secure message to the financial advisor requesting a copy of Mr Cs bank statement 
to fulfil its Anti-Money Laundering (AML) responsibilities. Mr Cs financial advisor 
didnt receive the original request, and Prudential re-sent it on 24 March. Mr C 
returned the required information the same day, and on 25 March Prudential 
confirmed its receipt and that it would now arrange for the payment to be processed.
 
Mr C didnt receive the expected income payment. So, on 1 April Mr Cs financial 
advisor contacted Prudential to check the status of the payment. He was advised that 
although the funds wouldnt be physically released to Mr C until the start of the 
following tax year, the payment would be recorded by Prudential as having been 
made before the end of the tax year.
That information proved to be incorrect. So, the payment Mr C received was deemed 
to have been made in the 2020-21 tax year. That meant that Mr C had left some of 
his tax allowances unused in the previous year, and would incur higher rate taxation 
on any income he took later in the 2020-21 tax year. So he complained to Prudential 
both about the late payment, and the incorrect information his financial advisor had 
been given.
Prudential accepted that it had provided incorrect information about the dating of the 
income payment. And it noted that it had not sold some of Mr Cs pension 
investments, before the income payment could be made, on the required date. So it 
paid him £250 for the trouble and upset hed been caused, and some interest for the 
one-day delay in the asset sale. But Prudential didnt agree that it should have 
completed the income payment before the end of the tax year. Mr C didnt accept 
that outcome so he brought his complaint to this Service.
I think that there are reasonably two matters that I need to consider here. Firstly 
whether Mr C reasonably gave his income payment instruction to Prudential before 
the end of tax-year deadline. And secondly, whether the incorrect information given 
to Mr Cs financial advisor by Prudential about the backdating of the payments has 
caused Mr C to lose out.
 
I will first deal with the incorrect information that was provided about the backdating 
of the payment.
It seems that both parties accept that the information Prudential provided to Mr Cs 
financial advisor at the start of April 2020 about the backdating of the income 
payment date was incorrect. And as I mentioned earlier Prudential has paid £250 to 
Mr C for the trouble and upset its failings caused to him. But I need to consider here 
whether Prudentials incorrect information caused Mr C any loss, or to act differently.
Generally income payments become taxable at the point they are made. As Mr C has 
pointed out there are some limited exceptions where payments can be deferred, or 
treated as having been made before the event. But I dont think those reasonably 
apply here. So, if Prudential failed to make the income payment to Mr C before the 
end of the tax year, it seems right that it should be recorded in the following tax year. 
So I dont think Prudential could reasonably have backdated the payment for Mr C.
When it provided the incorrect information to Mr C, Prudential says that it was 
already too late for the payment to be made in the earlier tax year. So even if it had 
provided the correct information  that the payment couldnt be backdated  I cannot 
see that Mr C would have been able to alter the payment date.
I have considered that Mr C might have chosen to cancel his income instruction 
entirely. But I have seen that more recently Prudential has agreed with Mr C and 
HMRC to do exactly that. Mr C has repaid the income he received, and HMRC has 
removed that payment from his records.
So on balance I dont think this part of Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. I think the 
payment that Prudential has made to Mr C for the trouble and upset he was caused 
by its incorrect information is fair and reasonable.
I will now consider when Prudential should have processed Mr Cs original 
instruction.
As my starting point for thinking about this part of Mr Cs complaint I have first looked 
at the terms and conditions that were applicable to his pension savings. Mr C was 
requesting an ad-hoc income payment to be made. So I think the relevant section of those terms is 23.6 which states that once all the necessary information has been 
received, payments will be processed as soon as is reasonably possible.
In its responses to Mr C Prudential has referred to a 10-working day SLA for 
payments to be made. And that timeframe would appear to align with the end of year 
cut-off date that it provided to Mr Cs financial advisor. But I think it important to note 
that the terms and conditions only refer to a 10-working day period in relation to 
starting, stopping, or amending regular income payments. So I think, when 
considering this complaint the parameter I should bear in mind is whether Prudential 
processed Mr Cs instruction as soon as it reasonably could have.
At this stage I think I should acknowledge the wider issues that society was facing at 
that time. In the lead up to end of the tax year period Prudential, like other employers, 
was needing to operate its activities on a remote working basis due to the restrictions 
imposed in response to the coronavirus pandemic. I dont mention this to excuse any 
delays but I am mindful of the additional pressures these working arrangements 
might have caused, in addition to the normal end of tax year pressures Prudential 
would have faced.
 
It seems to me that the instruction submitted by Mr Cs financial advisor contained 
the appropriate information for Prudential to liquidate some of Mr Cs pension 
investments and make the income payment. And Mr C has shown us that Prudential 
has accepted, and acted on, similar instructions in each of the three years before. 
But in 2020 Prudential requested some additional information from Mr C before it 
implemented his instructions.
Prudential asked Mr C for a copy of a recent bank statement. From the information 
I have seen it isnt entirely clear why that information was requested  a number of 
different explanations have been provided such as anti-money laundering checks or 
client verification. But it isnt for me to determine what processes Prudential should 
use when processing any instruction. It is reasonable for Prudential to take a risk-
based approach, and so any checks that were performed in the past might need to 
be supplemented (or reduced) for future instructions. I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Prudential to seek the additional evidence from Mr C to verify his 
identity, or confirm his bank account details.
But I cannot agree that the provision of the bank statement should be seen as a 
fundamental part of Mr Cs instruction. If that were the case then I would expect 
Prudential to make that clear at the outset, and allow consumers the opportunity to 
provide all the necessary information as part of their original submission. And that 
would mean that similar information should have been requested from Mr C for 
previous, and subsequent, payment instructions. So that would lead me to conclude 
that it would be unfair for Prudential to effectively place the instruction it had received 
from Mr C on hold until he had provided the bank statements.
It is clear that Prudential had started to process Mr Cs instruction shortly after it had 
been received, and well before its end of year processing cut off  that is why it 
asked for the additional evidence. So I dont think it right that, considering the 
transaction should be processed as soon as is reasonably possible, Prudential has 
applied the strict terms of that cut off to Mr Cs instruction. I think the provision of the 
bank statements was part of the processing activity, rather than the starting point. 
Mr C had provided a valid instruction more than one week before the deadline 
Prudential had set  so I think that he had a reasonable expectation that the income 
payment would be received before the end of the tax year.I have considered that there was a delay between Prudentials original request for the 
bank statement, and it being sent by the financial advisor. There is some suggestion 
that the financial advisor didnt have appropriate access to the secure messaging 
service that Prudential originally used. But it appears that once the request had been 
received (when it was resent by email) that it was acted upon almost immediately.
But that then leads to a further complication on this complaint. Prudentials emailed 
request was sent on 24 March  that was after the processing cut-off date. But the 
email gave no indication that there might be problems in paying Mr Cs income 
before the end of the tax year. And the response from Prudential after the bank 
statement had been sent also didnt suggest any problems  the reply simply said 
that Prudential would now arrange for the payment to be processed.
I think the importance of the end of the tax year would have been abundantly clear to 
Prudential  that is exactly the reason that special deadlines are put in place. But it 
seems that the sale of Mr Cs pension investments (that was needed before the 
income could be paid) didnt take place for almost a week after the bank statements 
had been sent in  and almost three weeks after the initial instruction had been 
received. I havent seen anything that suggests Prudential had any reasonable 
concerns about the validity of the original instruction  so I do question why that sale 
took so long to be completed. And those delays are precisely what caused the 
income payment to not be made until after the tax year end.
 
So I dont think that Prudential has treated Mr C fairly. I think he provided a valid 
instruction to Prudential that was sufficient for an income payment to be made before 
the end of the tax year. Whist Prudential, entirely reasonably, might have wanted 
further information to verify the payment arrangements, I dont think that should have 
rendered Mr Cs entire instruction as being replaced at the point the additional 
information was provided. So I currently think this part of Mr Cs complaint should be 
upheld and that Prudential needs to put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr C and Prudential have provided additional information following 
my decision. Although I am only summarising here what each have said, I want to reassure 
Mr C and Prudential that I have read, and carefully considered, their entire responses.
Mr C has said that he agrees with my provisional findings. But he has clarified some points 
in my decision. Mr C doesnt consider that the £250 payment Prudential has already made to 
him is in respect of the incorrect information his financial advisor was given at the start of 
April 2020. Instead he thinks that payment was in relation to the delays in dealing with his 
complaint letters in April and June 2020.
Mr C notes that Prudential has agreed to cancel, and remove from his tax records, the 
payment it made to him in April 2020. He wonders why that payment was chosen, rather 
than the more recent income payment he received in February 2021. And he says that 
Prudentials willingness to alter his tax records in relation to the cancelled payment suggests 
that a similar approach could have been taken that would have resulted in the original 
income payment being classed as having been paid in the earlier tax year.
Mr C says that Prudential has not been required to justify why it requested the additional 
verification information from him before processing his income request. He says he is at a 
loss to understand how the rules as applied could be considered to be in his best interests.Mr C has also provided some additional thoughts on the compensation that I proposed 
Prudential should pay. He says that he originally prepared a detailed claim of his losses, 
including compensatory interest for the late payment of the income and related tax 
repayment, the costs incurred by his financial advisor in his work dealing with the matter, 
and Mr Cs own costs, when he first submitted his complaint. Although he hasnt recently 
revised that claim, he asks that he be allowed to do so should Prudential dispute the 
compensation I have proposed.
Mr C says that the disruption to his payment schedule in March 2020 will have impacts for a 
number of years to come. He has needed to alter the timing of his income payments  from 
the end of a tax year to the start resulting in excessive tax deductions and additional time to 
recover any overpayments. And at some stage, most likely in 2024 he will need to take an 
additional income payment to put things back on track  an income payment that will attract 
higher rate taxation.
Prudential doesnt agree with my provisional findings. It has shown evidence that its AML 
checks on Mr Cs instruction resulted in a failure  although it isnt able to explain why this 
check failed when checks in previous years had been passed successfully. So it says that 
when the additional information is requested the SLA clock stops and it is unable to proceed 
with the transaction. It says the processing clock restarted at 10 working days when the 
information was received.
Prudential has said that the original request from the financial advisor did not lock in the 
withdrawal request  it says the withdrawal could only be completed once all the necessary 
requirement had been completed. That didnt happen until the bank statements were 
received, and processing Mr Cs instruction otherwise would mean other customers had not 
been treated fairly.
It points out that the relevant terms and conditions require income payments to be made 
from the cash account. So some of Mr Cs pension investments needed to be sold before the 
withdrawal could be completed. It says that sale takes three working days and Mr Cs 
financial advisor was aware of those timescales. 
So Prudential doesnt accept that it made an error when processing Mr Cs income request 
and so doesnt agree that it should pay any compensation. It questions the basis on which 
I have assessed the compensation as Mr Cs tax code changes on a regular basis. It also 
points out that the payment Mr C took was in fact a UFPLS payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought carefully about what both parties have said in response to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that I should change the outcome that I reached on this 
complaint. But I think it would be right that I comment further on the matters raised in 
response to my provisional decision.
As I originally explained I make no criticism of Prudentials decision to undertake further 
checks before completing Mr Cs instruction. I entirely accept that, at different times, different 
levels of checking might be appropriate. And the decision about the level of checks needed 
sits entirely with the business in order that it might comply with its regulatory responsibilities. 
But I cannot agree with what Prudential has said about the impact of those additional checks 
on the instruction it received from Mr C.Mr Cs original instruction was provided to Prudential on 12 March 2020. Prudential has said 
that it would have expected to complete that processing within its normal ten business day 
SLA. So when it originally asked Mr C for the additional information, on 16 March, at least 
one or, potentially, two business days had already elapsed. I can agree, as Prudential 
suggests, that it might be reasonable to suspend the processing clock whilst it is awaiting 
additional information. But I cannot agree that the receipt of that information should result in 
the processing clock restarting from the beginning when the information is provided. I think 
that would mean that, admittedly in the most extreme of circumstances, a transaction might 
not complete for an extended period of time despite any information requests being 
answered immediately.  
So on that basis I think that a reasonable expectation, when Mr C provided his bank 
statement information, would be that Prudential had eight or at most nine days of the ten-day 
SLA remaining. And so I think that should have led to Mr Cs income being paid before the 
end of the tax year.
But of course, as I said in my provisional decision, the ten-day SLA that Prudential 
references does not appear within the relevant terms and conditional of Mr Cs pension plan. 
They simply require that Prudential processes the instruction as soon as is reasonably 
possible. 
As Prudential has said, Mr Cs instruction was in two parts  it required the sale of some of 
his pension investments, and then the subsequent payment of the proceeds of that sale. It 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me that the sale of the assets should have been undertaken 
whilst Prudential was awaiting the bank statement information from Mr C. If that information 
was required to support AML checks, then my understanding is that any concerns would 
only become applicable once any pension assets were moved to Mr C  not when the 
investments within the pension wrapper were simply changed.
So on balance I dont agree with Prudential that my decision means that Mr C would have 
been treated preferentially in comparison to other consumers. I think he provided his 
instruction within the processing window that Prudential provided for payments to be made in 
the same tax year. And I dont think it reasonable that Prudential effectively restarted the 
processing of that instruction, from the beginning, when that additional information was 
provided. So I remain of the opinion that Prudential hasnt processed Mr Cs instruction in a 
timely manner and so it needs to pay him some compensation.
I think there is a significant difference between reversing a payment, as Prudential has done 
here, and altering the date of a payment as Mr C was hopeful might be achieved. In the first 
case the actions taken to reverse the payment mean that effectively it could be considered to 
have never happened  and so its removal from a tax record is entirely justified. But 
changing the payment date, could be considered in some ways to be a rewriting of history, 
with tax records reflecting something that didnt happen. So I dont think Prudentials 
decision to allow the reversal of the payment suggests that it had other avenues reasonably 
available to resolve Mr Cs complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision what I intended to ask Prudential to do in order to put 
things right. And I have reconsidered those proposals in the light of the additional comments 
made by Mr C, and by Prudential.When assessing that compensation I was aware that the payment Mr C received was a 
UFPLS payment. However I accept that in order to correct the payment timings, and so 
effectively take a second income payment within the same tax year, Mr C will still be able to 
benefit from the tax advantages of a UFPLS payment. So the higher rate tax that he will 
need to pay will only apply to 75% of that income payment  in the same way that 75% of his 
income payment would have been taxed if taken in the correct tax year. So I have written to 
Mr C to explain that I intend to modify the compensation that Prudential needs to pay to 
reflect the tax treatment of a UFPLS payment.
I have considered Mr Cs response to that proposal in great detail. His response is 
comprehensive and clearly sets out the difficulties that Prudentials error has caused him. 
But many of the problems he faces are due to the way in which HMRC assesses and taxes 
income, and the reclaims that need to be made when those methods produce an incorrect 
annual position. Whilst I entirely accept that his strategy at the outset was intended to 
mitigate some of those problems, Im not minded that I should hold Prudential responsible 
for any delays in, or the necessity for, Mr C reclaiming the incorrectly deducted tax from 
HMRC.
I remain of the opinion that any losses Mr C might have experienced in terms of a loss of use 
of any pension income are reasonably balanced by any investment returns those funds 
generated, particularly when considering they will have been generated in the tax efficient 
pension wrapper and can be taken as part of future UFPLS payments so partially free of 
income tax. And Mr C has said that his financial advisor has concluded that its costs have 
been offset by the amounts it receives from the investments it manages.
Mr Cs original complaint to Prudential, and hence its final response covered many different 
points, both in terms of the timing of the payment, the information that Prudential provided 
both before and after the payment had been made, and the way in which Prudential had 
dealt with those issues. So whilst I entirely accept the goodwill payment Prudential made to 
Mr C wasnt solely in relation to the trouble and upset he faces in restructuring his pension 
income, I think those problems do form part of the basis on which the payment was made.
I dont underestimate the time and trouble that Mr C has experienced in dealing with this 
complaint. His issues dont just involve dealing with Prudential as he has needed to seek 
support and guidance from both his financial advisor and HMRC. But I do think those issues 
are reasonably reflected in the goodwill payment that Prudential has already made.
Putting things right
My aim, given I have found something has gone wrong, would be to place Mr C back into the 
position he would have been if no error had occurred. But that is clearly not possible in this 
case. The income payment wasnt made before the end of the tax year, and asking 
Prudential to suggest otherwise would be entirely inappropriate. And I understand that 
Prudential has reversed the income payment Mr C received in April 2020, so the later 
payment he took in February 2021 wouldnt have suffered any adverse income tax 
consequences (although I accept there was a short time where Mr C had overpaid tax before 
his tax position was corrected).
So in broad terms the loss that Mr C faces as a result of Prudential failing to make his 
income payment in the 2019-20 tax year is one of lost opportunity. He left a large part of his 
lower rate tax allowance unused in that tax year. And as I have seen nothing to suggest that 
Mr Cs pension income will run out before his death, he will face an increased income tax 
charge should he decide to replace the income payment that he agreed for Prudential to 
reverse.So I think the loss that Mr C has suffered here is the additional taxation he will need to pay 
when he takes the replacement income in the future, compared with the tax he would have 
paid if the income had been correctly paid in March 2020. The income payment that Mr C 
requested in March 2020 was for £43,800. Had it been paid before the end of the tax year 
I think it fair to assume that the majority of that income would have been taxed at the basic 
rate of 20%. But since in the future the replacement income will need to be taken in addition 
to thats years income payment it would likely be taxed at the higher rate of 40%.
That means my estimation of the loss Mr C is likely to face is equal to 20% of the taxable 
income he received (since this was a UFPLS payment only 75% of it is taxable)  in total 
that amounts to £6,570. I accept that there might be some differences in how the tax 
allowances at the time are applied, and therefore any income tax that might need to be paid. 
And of course there is the problem that any losses might not actually arise, should Mr C 
choose not to take a replacement income payment. But I think this is a fair method and 
allows a line to be drawn under the complaint.
As I explained above I have thought about whether it would be reasonable to add any 
compensatory interest to this award. I have concluded that no interest should be added for 
two main reasons. It was Mr Cs choice to accept the reversal of the income payment  and 
whilst those funds have remained a part of his pension savings they will have benefitted from 
any investment returns. And, since there is no guarantee that Mr C will actually take the 
additional income in the future, it might be argued that he hasnt actually been deprived of 
the use of those funds. 
And although Mr C has undoubtedly needed to spend some time and effort in making this 
complaint, as I said earlier I think the award that Prudential has already paid him for his 
trouble and upset is fair. So I dont make any further award in that regard either.
So, in summary I think that Prudential should pay Mr C a total compensatory payment of 
£6,570 as a reasonable method of resolving this complaint. I think Prudential should have 
made the income payment before the end of the 2019-20 tax year, and so Mr C is likely to 
incur additional income tax liability as a result.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman