DRN-3414178
The complaint
Mr W complains esure Insurance Limited didnt properly repair his car when he claimed on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision setting out whatd happened, and what I thought about that. 
Ive copied the relevant elements below, and they form part of this final decision.
On 8 February 2021 Mr Ws car slid in snow and hit a central kerb damaging the steering 
and two offside wheels. He contacted esure, who arranged for their approved repairer (Ill 
call them A) to collect it. Mr W collected the car a few days later but noticed a noise when 
driving it home  and saw one of the wheels hadnt been repaired when the other had.
When contacting esure, Mr W says he was accused of trying to get repairs he wasnt entitled 
to, but those accusations stopped abruptly when he thinks esure realised they were looking 
at the nearside wheels, not the offside wheels which are the ones thatd been damaged.
Mr W had his car returned, the issue was still there, so he demonstrated this to A by taking 
one of their agents on a drive. Mr Ws car was then taken to and from As garage multiple 
times. It was also taken to a manufacturers garage, but the issue didnt get sorted.
Eventually, after some discussions with esure, they said theyd arrange for an inspection to 
be carried out to determine the issue  but then changed their mind as the manufacturers 
garage had said there wasnt an issue. esure told Mr W hed have to fix the problem himself.
In May 2021 Mr W went to a local garage, and they found the issue was due to damage to 
the offside front brake disc inline with the calliper carrier. The issue was then apparently 
fixed by ordering new brake pads and discs. Mr W told esure this and sent them the invoice. 
Rather than paying it, they sent out an agent to inspect the car  who Mr W says was 
surprised esure hadnt just paid the invoice. 
Mr W added hed experienced so much inconvenience and frustration  and his phone logs 
showed 32 calls to A. He said this had caused him problems with getting in to work as well.
In response, esure said they were sorry for the difficulties Mr W had experienced. They said 
theyd received the inspection report and agreed to pay for the costs Mr W incurred when he 
went to the local garage. They also offered to pay £50 compensation, but later realised this 
hadnt been paid, so increased it to £100. esure paid for the costs Mr W had incurred.
Unhappy with esures reply, Mr W asked us to look into things  saying esure hadnt properly 
compensated him for the stress hed experienced. As part of our normal process, we asked 
esure for their file. When replying they made a higher offer of compensation, by saying 
theyd pay a further £100  bringing the total compensation to £200.
Mr W didnt accept this, and asked we investigate matters. During this time, Mr W said the 
problem with his brakes making noises reappeared, and these were fixed for £383.86. On 
investigation, esure said they couldnt be sure the issues were linked to the same incident 
Mr W had initially reported, but in an effort to resolve the complaint agreed to pay it.
As Mr W didnt think this fairly reflected the inconvenience hed experienced at the beginning 
of his claim, he asked our Investigator to assess his case. Our Investigator did so and found 
esure had acted fairly by refunding all of the costs and paying £200 compensation.
But Mr W didnt agree. He said hed explained the significant impact before so wouldnt go 
back over that, but they basically left him to fend for himself despite him explaining the 
urgency of the situation on multiple occasions. So, as Mr W didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see esure refunded all of the costs Mr W has claimed for  including the latest 
costs of £383.86 which theyve said they couldnt establish was definitely linked to the 
incident Mr W claimed for.
So, the key issue for me to decide is whether the £200 compensation theyve offered is fair  
and I dont think it is.
Ive noted esures comments they cant be sure the last claim from Mr W is linked  but the 
issues do appear in the same area of the car. So, it seems fair theyve paid this.
But, thinking back to the original problems - clearly it shouldnt take at least six visits to A, a 
visit to a manufacturers dealer, and then multiple visits to his own garage for the issue to 
finally be fixed. The only reasonable conclusion I can draw is the matter was never 
satisfactorily resolved by esures agents.
This has led to a lot of detriment for Mr W  with it taking around three months before he was 
able to get a repair, albeit this turned out to be temporary, of his car. Mr W has explained he 
couldnt work on certain days and wasnt able to fulfil family commitments  along with the 
stress of dealing with this issue over a protracted period.
Overall, I think compensation of £400 in total would be a fairer amount. Its unclear to me 
exactly what esure have paid Mr W so far, but they should bring this amount up to £400.
For completeness, I also think they should refund Mr W any remaining costs for his car and 
pay 8% interest on any outstanding invoices  to reflect Mr W being deprived of money he 
shouldnt have been.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W replied saying he thought my decision was fair, and he accepted it.
esure didnt reply by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mr W accepted my decision, and esure didnt reply by the deadline, Ive seen no reason 
to change the outcome Ive reached on this complaint. I uphold this complaint and set out 
the redress in the next section. 
Putting things right
I require esure to:
Refund Mr W any outstanding invoices
Pay 8% interest* on the date of those invoices, to the date of settlement
Pay Mr W a total of £400 compensation  subtracting any amounts already paid
*HM Revenue and Customs requires esure to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to above. esure must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted if he 
asks them for one
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint, and require esure Insurance 
Limited to carry out the actions in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman