DRN-4144799
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Hey Habito Ltd when applying for a 
mortgage to buy a property. He says he lost out on the mortgage rate hed applied for 
because Habito didnt respond to messages from the lender.
What happened
Mr C found a property he wanted to buy and applied for a mortgage through Habito, which is 
a mortgage broker. 
He received a mortgage offer on 29 June 2022 from lender N.
The property was leasehold, and there was an issue with the ground rent clause contained 
in the lease. Mr C and the vendor were resolving that issue through their solicitors, with a 
deed of variation having been drafted that was close to being finalised at the relevant time.
On 7 July 2022 lender N emailed Habito to let it know there was an issue with the valuation. 
That email said:
We are in receipt of the valuation report and regrettably the valuer has deemed the 
property not suitable security, therefore we are unable to proceed with this property. Please 
advise how the customer wishes to proceed and whether the customer will be looking for 
another property or not. Valuer's comments received as follows: It is not possible to 
recommend the subject property as a suitable security as the terms of the Ground Rent, 
doubling every 15 years, are not acceptable, are considered to be onerous and could 
impact future saleability and mortgagability As such the property cannot be considered 
suitable security. The minimum term that doubling of the ground should occur is every 20.
Property not suitable security. Kindly advise how the customer wishes to proceed.
As it hadnt received a response lender N sent a further email to Habito on 1 September 
2022, saying:
Please contact [lender N] on [phone number] to confirm the application is still proceeding.
If no contact received the application will be lapsed in 10 working days.
Habito didnt respond and so lender N, on 16 September 2022, confirmed the application 
had been lapsed and a new application would be required.
On 23 September Mr C contacted Habito. He said his solicitor had been notified that the 
mortgage application had been cancelled and couldnt be reinstated. He said if Habito had 
contacted either him or his solicitor then it would have been told the ground rent issue was 
close to being resolved, so a single message would have kept the mortgage application on 
track.
There was some back and forth between Mr C and Habito, and a complaint was raised. 
Habito issued its response to the complaint on 23 September 2022. It said it had received 
the three emails from lender N but hadnt responded or made Mr C aware of the contact. It 
apologised for not doing so and offered £150 compensation. However it said it didnt think it 
would have changed anything if it had responded to the emails (or made Mr C aware of 
them).
Mr C made a further application to lender N for the same property (without the involvement 
of Habito), which led to a mortgage offer being issued on 2 November 2022 and the 
mortgage completing on 16 December 2022.
Unhappy with Habitos response Mr C referred his complaint to our service where it was 
looked at by one of our Investigators. 
Our Investigator upheld the complaint and said Habito should pay Mr C the loss he will incur 
due to the November mortgage offer being at a higher interest rate. He also said Habito 
should pay Mr C £250 compensation.
A month later Habito responded to our Investigator, saying:
Habito is a mortgage broker. We have no say on a lender's decision to lend to someone or 
withdraw a mortgage offer.
There's no dispute [lender Ns] emails were missed. We've offered fair compensation for 
these errors. Even if we had replied to the emails, the circumstances wouldn't have 
changed - the mortgage offer still would've been withdrawn.
Habito became aware of the issues with the property on 23 September and tried to get the 
mortgage offer reinstated. We were informed [lender N] would require a full Deed of 
Variation, which would need to be considered by both the valuer and [lender Ns] 
underwriter.
At this point, [Mr C] only had a draft version of the Deed of Variation and we forwarded the 
draft to [lender Ns] Business Development Manager who stated 'I've made enquiries and it 
is doubtful the deed of variation would make any difference'. This clearly suggests the 
mortgage offer would always have been withdrawn and the mortgage wouldn't have 
proceeded, even had we replied to the emails.
[Mr C] would've been informed of the need for a Deed of Variation before 23 September. If 
he contacted Habito sooner, more could've been done to help him. But he would've still 
needed a full Deed of Variation for the mortgage to proceed. 
The need for a full Deed of Variation was a requirement of [lender N] and is something 
outside of Habito's control as a mortgage broker.
[Mr C] decided to proceed with a mortgage directly through [lender N]. He wasn't under any 
obligation to do so at the higher rate. There were other options available to him. 
Habito hasn't seen anything to suggest [Mr C] could've been able to provide a full Deed of 
Variation before the mortgage offer expired. Given he proceeded with a mortgage from 
[lender N], I'd ask why [lender Ns] Business Development Manager couldn't help more.
Our Investigator replied to Habito confirming Mr C had provided a full deed of variation 
before the offer would have expired, and the new mortgage (also with lender N) had 
completed on 15 December 2022, so before the original offer would have expired. He asked Habito to clarify why it felt the offer would still have been withdrawn in those circumstances 
and he provided evidence of the mortgage completion.
Seven months have now passed and, despite several chase ups, Habito still hasnt 
responded. We cant keep matters in abeyance indefinitely, so the case has now been 
passed to me to decide without any further information from Habito.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mr C approached Habito to act as his professional mortgage intermediary in this transaction. 
Habito has admitted that it received the emails from lender N and that it should have done 
something with them but didnt. Thats not in dispute.
Ive taken into account everything Habito has said in that it said it wasnt told by Mr C or his 
conveyancer that they were working on a deed of variation for the lease. But that isnt the 
deciding factor in this complaint.
Ive also not commented on what lender N could have done, or what it said, as this complaint 
is about Habito not lender N.
Had Habito done what it should, which is read the emails from lender N and contacted its 
customer Mr C about them, then Mr C would have had the opportunity to explain that 
everything was in hand and should be in place for the mortgage to complete by the deadline 
in the June 2022 mortgage offer (which was 29 December 2022).
Lender N wouldnt contact Mr C or his conveyancer directly as Mr C had appointed Habito to 
act as his mortgage intermediary, which is why lender N emailed Habito. As a mortgage 
intermediary Habito needed to discuss those messages with its customer Mr C, but it didnt. 
Had Habito contacted Mr C (at any time between the first email on 7 July and when the 
application was lapsed on 16 September) then Ive no doubt this application wouldnt have 
lapsed and would have completed before the deadline given in the June mortgage offer. We 
can see this was possible by the fact a later application to lender N for the same property 
completed on 16 December 2022 following the provision of the deed of variation to lender N.
Im satisfied the only reason this mortgage application was lapsed, which meant Mr C could 
no longer obtain the original mortgage interest rate, was because Habito didnt act on the 
emails it received over that two-month period. Had it acted on those emails then Im satisfied 
the application would have continued, and Mr C would now have a mortgage being charged 
at the June 2022 mortgage interest rate.
Habito has offered to pay Mr C £150 For the trouble and upset caused by not sharing these 
important emails but I agree with our Investigator that doesnt go far enough. 
If Habito had shared those important emails then Im satisfied Mr C would now have an 
interest rate fixed at 2.63%, rather than one fixed at 3.79%. For that reason, Habito needs to 
compensate Mr C for that loss hell incur.Mr C borrowed £280,995 on a repayment basis over a 27-year term, which is the same as 
hed applied for through Habito. So Habito needs to calculate the difference in payments for 
that mortgage (comparing the 2.63% he should have had to the 3.79% he got) until 31 July 
2027 and pay that to Mr C as a lump sum. 
The date of 31 July 2027 is to be used as that is when the original interest rate would have 
ended, and no additional interest needs to be paid on that lump sum because whilst Mr C 
has already paid out almost a year of higher payments, that will be offset by the fact he will 
be getting the remainder of the higher payments as a lump sum before he needs to pay 
them.
Mr C explained the impact on him of what happened, and I can see he tried to resolve things 
with Habito. He was shocked to find his mortgage application had been lapsed due to Habito 
not dealing with the contact from lender N, and Mr C was under pressure to arrange a new 
mortgage so the property purchase could complete. He was inconvenienced by the mistake 
Habito made and, considering everything, I think the amount our Investigator proposed of 
£250 is fair to compensate Mr C for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Hey Habito Ltd to:
Pay Mr C a lump sum equivalent to the difference in mortgage payments from 
16 December 2022 until 31 July 2027. That calculation should be based on a 
mortgage amount of £280,995 held on a repayment basis over a 27-year term, 
comparing the 2.63% rate Mr C should have got, with the 3.79% that he has. The 
mortgage offers we hold show the monthly payments as £1,212.24 (at 2.63%) and 
£1,386.65 (at 3.79%).
Pay Mr C £250 (less any amounts already paid, if any) in recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman