DRN-4224488
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HARBOUR ROCK CAPITAL LIMITED took too long to arrange a 
transfer of his pension funds. Mr M believes he lost out as a result.
At the time of the events Mr M complains about HARBOUR ROCK CAPITA LIMITED was 
trading under the name of Portafina Investment Management Ltd (Portafina). As all of the 
relevant documents and correspondence were issued in the name of Portafina, I will only 
refer to Portafina throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr M took early retirement. He approached Portafina for advice about his pension and 
retirement provision in March 2021. He was a member of his former employers defined 
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme. He also had a defined contribution (DC) 
scheme pension. Both pensions were administered by the same company. 
Portafina requested information about Mr Ms pension funds from the pension 
administrators. The administrators replied. They said they were waiting for Mr M to confirm 
he wanted Portafina to gather information on his behalf before they would share Mr Ms 
details with it. 
On 18 May 2021 the pension administrators told Portafina Mr M had confirmed he was 
happy for them to share his information. The administrators sent Portafina some documents 
on 8 June 2021 including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for Mr Ms DB scheme of 
around £575,000. The administrators also said that Mr Ms DC scheme had a value in the 
region of £78,780. The CETV figure was guaranteed until 27 August 2021. But the 
administrators didnt give Portafina all the information it wanted, so it asked for more detail. 
Portafina received that information on 17 June 2021. 
Portafina rang Mr M in July 2021 and ran through some fact-find questions to establish his 
circumstances and objectives. 
On 28 July 2021 Portafina sent Mr M the result of the first stage of its advice process, known 
as abridged advice. It said it had insufficient information to make a recommendation about a 
DB pension transfer at that stage. It asked Mr M if he wanted Portafina to give him full 
advice. It said that if he wanted full advice he would have to agree to pay a fee of £19,000.
Portafina rang Mr M for a response to the abridged advice on 13 August 2021. It said Mr M 
told it that he hadn't read the abridged advice yet because hed been unwell.
Mr Ms CETV expired on 28 August 2021.
Portafina left voicemail messages for Mr M to contact it on 15, 22, and 27 September 2021.
Portafina sent correspondence chasing a response from Mr M on 29 September 2021, 
28 October 2021, 11 November 2021, 3 December 2021, 23 December 2021 and 
18 January 2022.
In the meantime, on 22 December 2021 Portafina left another voicemail asking Mr M to 
contact it.
On 24 January 2022 Mr M signed a declaration that he wanted Portafina to provide full 
advice and agreed to pay its fee. Portafina then obtained an appropriate pension transfer 
report (APTA) including a transfer value comparator. It said it tried to contact Mr M to 
confirm his circumstances hadn't changed since its initial fact-find  either by phone or in 
writing  on 3 February 2022, 8 February 2022, 25 February 2022, 14 March 2022, 
30 March 2022 and 31 March 2022.
Portafina spoke with Mr M on 27 April 2022. It then asked for further up-to-date information 
from the scheme administrators. It chased that information several times in May 2022, After 
receiving that information Portafina asked for a further CETV in June 2022. The scheme 
administrators provided that in July 2022. The DB scheme CETV had fallen to £474,000. 
The DC pension pot value had fallen to around £72,840. Portafina then obtained an up-to-
date APTA and sent Mr M its suitability report setting out its analysis on 9 August 2022.
Mr M rang Portafina on 15 August 2022 and asked for a call back. He had to chase that 
reply and on 22 August 2022 Portafina did ring him back. Mr M wasnt happy with Portafinas 
service. Amongst other things he complained that because of its delays his pension had 
reduced. 
Portafina replied to Mr Ms complaint in October 2022. It didn't uphold it. Portafina said that 
while the process was delayed, the delays were caused by the DB scheme administrators or 
Mr M not getting back to it. It also pointed out that it was still waiting for Mr M to send it 
identity verification documents so it could complete the transfer process.
On 25 January 2023 the pension transfer was completed. A tax free cash lump sum was 
paid to Mr M on 26 January 2023.
In the meantime, on 6 January 2023, Mr M brought his complaint to us. One of our 
Investigators looked into it. She didnt think Portafina was responsible for the fall in Mr Ms 
CETV. Mr M didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for 
Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of Mr Ms complaint at the time he brought that to us and the reasons for my decision.Should Portafina have completed the advice process before the original CETV guarantee 
date expired?
I have to determine whether Portafina could have completed the advice process before the 
original CETV guarantee date had passed in August 2021. And, if there were any avoidable 
delays, whether they were a result of any error or omission by Portafina.
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) compared with other pension products available on the open 
market. Transferring from a DB scheme is a one-off event; once transferred theres no going 
back  the benefits are lost forever. So, when giving DB pension transfer advice Portafina 
was required to understand Mr Ms wants and needs, not just his wishes and desires. And 
only once it was convinced, on contemporary evidence, that a transfer was in his best 
interests could it fairly make a positive recommendation to transfer.
There are typically a number of stages involved in the DB transfer process. Portafina 
effectively offers a two stage process. The first is known as abridged advice, which Portafina 
offers without charging the consumer for that advice. This is a shorter form of advice 
requiring fewer pieces of evidence to complete and is less complex. It only has two possible 
outcomes:
A recommendation not to transfer.
A conclusion that the short form of advice is inconclusive about whether a transfer is 
suitable.
And, generally, a client would only move on to the second stage  full advice  if Portafina 
has identified that the abridged advice was inconclusive.
The abridged advice process requires less information than full advice. But at the abridged 
advice stage the regulator still requires Portafina to gather what it calls essential facts 
about Mr Ms knowledge, objectives and circumstances. That includes detailed evidence 
about his income and assets both currently and into retirement.
So, before Portafina could complete the abridged advice stage it needed to know what 
Mr Ms pension entitlements were from both of his pensions. I've seen that Portafina 
requested Mr Ms pension information at an early stage, but the scheme administrators didnt 
provide that information until June 2021. In my view the principal cause of the delay up to 
this point was because Portafina was awaiting information from third parties. In other words 
most of the delays were outside of its control.
Portafina then gathered further information from Mr M and gave him its abridged advice on 
28 July 2021. Its conclusion was that it had insufficient information to make a 
recommendation and asked Mr M if he wished to proceed to full advice. If he wanted to do 
so, Mr M would need to agree to pay Portafinas fee of £19,000 for full advice.
At that time the CETV was only guaranteed until 27 August 2021. Ill explain that the 
guarantee date is set by the scheme administrators acting on behalf of the scheme 
trustees. So the guarantee date isn't anything Portafina had any control over and it couldnt 
secure that date until Mr M had signed all the necessary paperwork confirming he wanted 
the transfer to go ahead. 
Portafina couldn't move to the next stage, full advice, until Mr M had agreed to pay its fee for 
providing that advice of £19,000. But Mr M didn't reply to Portafina to confirm he wanted to 
go ahead with full advice before the original CETV date had passed. In fact, the file shows that Mr M didnt respond to Portafina and confirm he wanted to go 
ahead with the advice process until January 2022, almost five months after the original 
CETV guarantee date had expired. Portafinas shown us evidence of its attempts to contact 
Mr M in the meantime. That includes its note that it called Mr M on 13 August 2021 to 
discuss its abridged advice. But Mr M said he hadn't read the abridged advice report 
because hed been unwell. 
The initial CETV guarantee date expired on 27 August 2021 without Mr M confirming that he 
wanted to continue with the process. And given he hadn't agreed to pay its fee for full advice 
before that happened I don't think it was Portafinas fault that it didnt manage to complete 
the advice process before the initial CETV expired. 
Should Portafina have completed the advice process sooner?
Portafinas provided evidence of numerous chasers to Mr M asking him what he wanted to 
do following the abridged advice report it sent to him in July 2021. But he didnt reply until 
January 2022 when he agreed to pay Portafinas fee and proceed to full advice. I've seen no 
evidence that the delay between August 2021 and January 2022 was because of anything 
Portafina did or didnt do. It was clearly awaiting Mr Ms instructions. I understand that during 
this period Mr M had been ill. He also suffered some family bereavements which must have 
been very difficult for him to deal with. But those things are outside of Portafinas control, so I 
don't think it's responsible for the delays here. 
After he asked Portafina to go ahead with the advice in January 2022 it then tried to contact 
him on numerous occasions. Mr Ms said that Portafina hasn't been truthful about the 
number of times it tried to contact him. He also said he rang it on hundreds of occasions 
only to receive promises for calls back that didnt happen. Portafina provided us with 
evidence of the number of times it tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr M. Its call logs show 
that it wasnt until 27 April 2022 that it managed to speak with Mr M. At that point it took 
action to gather more information from the scheme administrators. It didn't receive all the 
information it needed, including an updated CETV, until July 2022. Following receipt of that, 
it sent Mr M its recommendation report reasonably promptly in August 2022.
As I've said above Mr M told us that Portafina hasn't been truthful about its attempts to 
contact him and that he made hundreds of phone calls to it. We asked him if he had any 
evidence of the phone calls hed made to Portafina, for example by way of an itemised 
telephone bill, but he didn't reply. In contrast Portafina provided us with a log of the calls it 
had made to Mr M and of those it had received from him. Ive seen that there were some 
occasions when Mr M had called Portafina and requested a call back that it didnt make 
promptly. For example Mr M called Portafina on 15 August 2022 wanting to discuss his case 
but had to make a couple of follow-up calls before he spoke with Portafinas adviser. But I've 
seen no compelling evidence of attempts by Mr M to progress matters prior to that. 
Further I dont think Portafina had anything to gain by delaying the transfer process. It had 
already done a considerable amount of work for Mr M at its abridged advice stage. And, as it 
did that work free of charge, it wouldn't have been in a position to collect a fee for its 
services until it had completed the full advice process. So I dont think it had any reason to 
want to slow any progress down. It follows that, on balance, I think its likely that the majority 
of delays were because Portafina was awaiting for Mr M or the scheme administrators to 
provide information so it could continue the advice process and were not caused by 
omissions or mistakes form Portafina. 
I'm aware that, by the time the pension administrators provided the revised CETV in 
June 2022 it had dropped by around £100,000. I can understand how frustrating Mr M must have found that. But, as I've said above, I dont think the delay between the first CETV 
expiring and Portafina receiving the second was because of anything Portafina did wrong. 
And, once it had received all the outstanding information it produced its recommendation 
report in a reasonable time. 
It might also help if I explain that CETVs are typically only guaranteed for three months and 
they will then require recalculation. Thats because theyre not only based on the consumers 
circumstances, but also whats happening in the wider financial markets. So they are 
affected by things like interest, gilt and discount rates. That means they can go up and down. 
And thats what happened in this case; the movements in the economy and the financial 
markets has seen a drop in CETVs. But that wasnt Portafinas fault. So I don't think it was 
responsible for the CETV reducing.
Im also aware that Mr Ms plan was to use the 25% tax free cash lump sum available from 
transferring his pensions to buy a house and then to use the remaining balance to buy an 
annuity. However, as his CETV balance had gone down the level of his annuity also fell. But, 
for the reasons given above, as I don't think Portafina is responsible for the drop in the 
CETV figure equally I don't think it was responsible for any subsequent drop in annuity 
values.
I've noted Mr M is also unhappy with the amount of time it took for the annuity purchase to 
be completed. But, this wasnt something that Mr M initially complained to Portafina about in 
August 2022. And it appears that any delays in the annuity purchase largely took place after 
Mr M had complained to this office. So, as this wasnt something he had initially complained 
to Portafina about or it replied to in its complaint response letter of October 2022, it's not 
something I've investigated or intend to address here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman