DRN-2157457
The complaint
Mr B made a claim under his car insurance policy. Hes unhappy with the offer provided by 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as the market value of the car.
What happened
Mr B has a fully comprehensive motor policy with UKI. He was involved in a car accident and 
submitted a claim under the policy. 
UKI decided to replace the car. It was valued at £13,175 and the claim was settled for 
£12,920 (with the excess deducted). Mr B is unhappy with this amount and believes his car 
was worth £17,000  he disputes how UKI has reached this figure. 
Mr B complained to UKI and it sent its final response in March 2020. UKI confirmed that 
additional information Mr B sent to it was also considered. As a result, the valuation had 
increased from £12,920 to £13,175 (less any applicable excess). UKI confirmed that 
payment would be sent to Mr B. UKI also said the valuation was based on industry 
recognised guidelines and it has done whats required in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr B brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint and said she thought the offer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr B said he compared the market values of the car on retail sites which showed his car 
wouldve been worth around £17,000. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issues I need to decide here is whether RSA has offered a fair and reasonable 
market value of the car and whether its in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I confirm the role of this service isn't to value cars. But we do check to make sure that
insurers have acted fairly and reasonably in doing so. Ive considered the information and 
the relevant trade guides that produced results for Mr Bs car. Having done so, Im satisfied 
UKIs offer was fair.
Mr Bs policy says:
If your car is damaged, we have the option to:
Pay to repair the damage or repair the damage ourselves;
Replace what is lost or damaged, if this is more cost-effective than repairing it; or
Settle your claim by sending you a cheque or by bank transfer.
The most we will pay
We will not pay more than the market value of your car at the time of the loss (less any 
excess that may apply).
Mr Bs said that the trade guides dont offer a comparable valuation and as such hes finding 
it difficult to purchase another car thats similar for the amount that UKI has offered. I 
appreciate his comments and understand its been difficult to find another similar car. But, 
Ive reviewed the valuations on the trade guides and wed expect UKI to use those too to 
reach a fair market value. These showed three separate valuations based on the mileage, 
year of registration and the condition of the car. The lowest was £12,920 and the highest of 
the three was £13,858. UKI has to ensure the value offered falls within the range and having 
looked at these the offer of £13,175 does fall within this. I acknowledge the amount settled 
was at the lower end of the three valuations as the average of all three valuations was 
£13,409. I still considered whether the difference was significant. However, while there is a 
difference of £234, Im not persuaded this is significant enough against the overall value of 
the car. 
Adverts tend to be less reliable as they are a starting point as to what a seller believes the
car is worth. So they tend to vary widely and they also tend to be a starting point to
negotiate a lower price. Adverts show a large range in prices which is why we generally dont
find adverts a very persuasive way to value a vehicle. Trade guides are a more accurate
reflection of vehicle selling prices. 
Im not persuaded in the circumstances of this complaint the valuation used by UKI from the 
trade guide is unfair or unreasonable. 
Overall, having weighed everything up, Im satisfied that UKI reviewed the available
trade guide in line with our approach, to establish a market value. Its offer of £13,175 is a fair 
market value based on the condition and details of the car. UKI doesnt need to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman