DRN-1760685
The complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society have acted unfairly towards her by giving 
her the wrong type of Individual Savings Account (ISA) to help her buy her first property. 
What happened
On 28 October 2015 Miss C visited a branch of Nationwide and applied for a Save to Buy 
ISA with the intention of helping her save towards buying her first property. 
The sale was carried out on a non-advised basis and Miss C completed and signed an 
application form to take out the account. The account was opened with £50. 
In February 2018 Miss C says she visited a Nationwide branch and at that time still had the 
impression her account was a Help to Buy ISA. Help to Buy ISAs were a government backed 
scheme to assist first time buyers in the property market. However, Miss C says when she 
came to buy her first home, her solicitor discovered that her ISA account was not part of the 
governments scheme. And so a bonus that Miss C was expecting  of £3,000  would 
therefore not be available to her. 
Miss C managed to still buy her property in 2019. But says had she known her account was 
not a Help to Buy ISA when she first took it out in October 2015, then she would have waited 
until Nationwide offered that account or she would have gone elsewhere. Equally, Miss C 
says that in 2018 the Nationwide branch staff should have been able to tell her that she did 
not have a Help to Buy ISA account. Had they done so, this error could have been corrected 
then. 
Nationwide have said theyve done nothing wrong. The Help to Buy ISA wasnt available in 
October 2015 as it was not launched until December 2015. And staff would not have known 
in October 2015 when, or if, such a launch would happen. Nationwide have said they dont 
feel the account was inappropriate for Miss C at the time, and as it was a non-advised sale 
they wouldnt have been able to recommend what Miss C should do either in 2015 or 2018. 
Nationwide also confirmed there was very little evidence available from either 2015 or 2018. 
Miss C therefore brought her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. They acknowledged the government Help 
to Buy scheme was not available at the time Miss C applied in October 2015 and said the 
paperwork at the time of the sale made clear what type of account Miss C was taking out. 
The investigator also didnt think it unreasonable that in October 2015 staff wouldnt have 
known about the introduction of the Help to Buy ISA in December 2015. And the investigator 
noted there was very limited evidence in terms of what happened in 2018, so there wasnt 
enough to say that Nationwide had done something wrong at that time. 
Miss C didnt accept our investigators opinion. Miss C explained that as she was unfamiliar 
with banking products she felt it was Nationwides responsibility to inform customers of 
whether an account was or wasnt suitable for them. Miss C again mentioned her visit to the 
branch in February 2018 and that she had said to staff she was eligible for the government 
bonus, but this wasnt picked up by them that she had the wrong account. Miss C says that 
had this been realised at the time, the wrong account could have been closed and the right 
one opened. Miss C said she had trusted Nationwide to do the right thing. 
As our investigator was unable to reach a resolution with Miss C the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I broadly agree with our investigators findings and do not think this 
complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
 
The government announced the Help to Buy scheme in March 2015 and said it would be 
available in the Autumn. 
I recognise the similarities in the different account names as well as the timing of Miss Cs 
application in October 2015; however, Im satisfied that in October 2015 when Miss C took 
out the Save to Buy ISA, the governments scheme was not yet available. And it therefore 
follows that Nationwides Help to Buy ISA was not part of Nationwides product range at the 
time. So the account Miss C now says she had wanted was not something that would have 
been available to her at the time of her application.
 
I also think it very unlikely that Nationwide staff would have known in October 2015 if, or 
when, the scheme would be something that Nationwide would offer to customers. Such 
information is often held back until much nearer the date of a product launch.
 
The sale in October 2015 happened on a non-advised basis, so Nationwide was not required 
to make a recommendation to Miss C. But it did need to give her information about the 
product. Ive reviewed the information Nationwide says would have been available and there 
is no mention that the Save to Buy ISA account was part of the government scheme. 
Similarly there is no mention of the scheme on the application form Miss C signed. So its 
difficult for me to say Nationwide did anything wrong at this time. Or that Miss C could have 
been misled by the available documentation. 
 
In view of the above, Ive not seen anything to say that this part of Miss Cs complaint should 
be upheld. Miss C could not have been sold a Help to Buy ISA at that time. Or been told 
about what may or may not have later become part of Nationwides product range. And Ive 
not seen anything to suggest the product was inappropriate for Miss Cs circumstances at 
the time. I note that the account Miss C took out did at least offer Miss C a tax-free 
opportunity to save to buy a home. I also understand Miss C would have received 
information from Nationwide in following years which referred to the account as a Save to 
Buy ISA.  
In February 2018 Miss C says Nationwide had the opportunity to correct the error and 
ensure she had one of the government backed Help to Buy ISA accounts. Unfortunately, 
both Miss C and Nationwide have been unable to provide much information or evidence from 
the branch visit in February 2018. 
I dont doubt Miss C visited the branch, but it is difficult for me to know what was more likely 
than not discussed at the time. So I cant say Miss C was most likely given wrong 
information about her account then, or that Nationwide should have picked up that Miss C 
was in a Save to Buy ISA account rather than a Help to Buy ISA account. On balance, Im therefore unable to say Nationwide did anything wrong here, so Ive not 
considered whether switching from one account to the other would have been possible for 
Miss C at the time  although its worth noting generally there are restrictions involved when 
moving ISA funds. 
Overall, I dont think the Save to Buy ISA was inappropriate for Miss C when she took it out 
or that she was given information about it which misled her about the type of account it was. 
I also dont think Nationwide could have reasonably hinted to Miss C that the Help to Buy 
ISA would have become available in December 2015. And there is not enough evidence 
available for me to say Miss C should have been made aware of the type of account she had 
in February 2018 when she visited the branch.
My final decision
I understand this will come as a disappointment for Miss C. But for the reasons above my 
final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman