DRN-2499792
The complaint
Mr B complains BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) supplied him with a car 
with refurbished alloys of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr B took out a hire purchase agreement for a used car. He says at the time of 
purchase he was unhappy with the alloy wheels as they were clearly kerbed. The 
dealership agreed to refurbish the alloys prior to purchase.
Mr B accepted the refurbished wheels and took receipt of the car on 19 July 2019.
In July 2020, Mr B contacted BMWFS to complain about the alloy wheels. He said they were 
now suffering from corrosion and he found this to be unacceptable. He asked for the alloys 
to be replaced or that he be allowed to reject the car as he felt he had been duped into 
accepting a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality.
In its final response dated 11 September 2020, BMWFS didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It 
said there was a six-month warranty for the refurbished alloys which had since expired. It 
said it wasnt responsible for the workmanship, if this was indeed the cause of the problem 
and urged Mr B to take it up with the retailer.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He explained 
that as the corrosion had occurred after six months of ownership it was Mr Bs responsibility 
to show a fault was present at the time of the sale. He said the photographic evidence 
provided by Mr B clearly showed corrosion, but he had no evidence as to the cause of the 
corrosion which wasnt present at the point of sale. He said he couldnt fairly ask BMWFS to 
do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. He says as the wheels were refurbished prior to sale there shouldnt be 
corrosion showing within 9 months. He points to a number of other consumer reviews and 
says the dealership also confirmed there is a known issue with these alloys. He says he 
wasnt told there was only a six-month warranty on the wheels, or he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with the purchase. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at all the information afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as 
the investigator, I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, Ill explain why.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  
therefore this service can consider a complaint relating to it. There are various rules and 
protections about how hire purchase agreements operate, including those set out in the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) The CCA is therefore relevant law in this complaint. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods (i.e. the car) under this type of agreement, and 
responsible for a complaint about their quality. The CRA sets out some of the responsibilities 
of a supplier in relation to the quality of goods it supplies. The CRA is therefore also relevant 
law in this complaint. 
BMWFS supplied Mr B with a used car that had travelled 36,000 miles when supplied. So, I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect that parts of the car might have
already suffered wear and tear. And theres a greater risk this car might need repair and/or
maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn when it was supplied. As far as 
Im aware Mr B hasnt experienced any other problems with the car and the corrosion to his 
wheels occurred some nine months after he received it.
Ive looked carefully at the photographic evidence from Mr B and I can see some corrosion 
to the alloys. The difficulty here is this was raised outside of the six-month warranty and 
under the legislation the responsibility falls to Mr B to show the problem was present at the 
time of sale. Mr B has confirmed the alloys were refurbished, at his request, prior to taking 
receipt of the car, so its highly unlikely corrosion was present at the point of sale. I 
appreciate Mr B says he wasnt aware there was only a six-month warranty. I wasnt present 
at the time, so I dont know what was said. Ive no reason to doubt what Mr B says but that 
doesnt mean BMWFS are at fault. I wouldnt expect every term to be pointed out and when 
the documentation is provided there is a responsibility on the consumer to read it and query 
anything unclear or unexpected. That said, I dont find a six-month warranty on refurbished 
alloys to be out of the ordinary. It seems there are many aspects that can cause corrosion on 
alloys, from the area in which someone lives, to the weather conditions and how the wheels 
are cleaned, and the cleaning products used.
This means that whilst I accept there is some corrosion, Im not able to clearly evidence the 
cause or how and when it developed. I understand Mr B has carried out a great deal of 
research into other consumers and issues with alloys but again there are a range of causes 
and I cant fairly use other cases as a basis for my decision. I can only look at the evidence 
available to me in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
So, unfortunately from what Ive seen there isnt enough evidence here to suggest the fault 
was present at the point of sale and so I dont find it fair or reasonable to ask BMWFS to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaintUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman