DRN-2042251
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection policy
(PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out PPI in 2000 at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. Neither 
party can confirm where the sale took place. The policy was in Mr Gs sole name and gave 
him unemployment cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
The adjudicator didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld. Mr and
Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs G had to agree to take 
it out. Mr and Mrs G cant recall any details of the sale and Nationwide no longer has any of 
the paperwork, but this isnt unreasonable or surprising given it was so long ago. 
Nationwide says Mr and Mrs G were under no obligation to arrange the cover, it was 
optional. The fact they selected just unemployment cover - not the more standard package 
of accident, sickness and unemployment - suggests to me there was discussion between the 
parties, and Mr and Mrs G understood they had choices. Overall without stronger evidence 
showing Nationwide didnt make it clear the PPI was optional, and that Mr and Mrs G didnt 
agree to take it, I cant fairly uphold the complaint on this point. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI, so it didnt have to check if the policy was right for
Mr G. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs G got all the information they needed to
make an informed decision. 
Its possible the information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont think they
wouldve been put off taking out the policy for Mr G if they had received better information. I 
say this because:
Mr G was eligible for the policy given his circumstances at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions. It seems he wasnt affected by any of the things limiting the 
policys main benefits. So overall, I think it unlikely better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations would have changed their decision to buy it for 
Mr G.
Mr and Mrs G had savings of between £5,000 and £10,000 but the PPI would have 
allowed them to use their savings to cover other living expenses whilst Mr G wasnt 
working, or to protect them for their future needs. The PPI would have given up to 12 
months redundancy cover in addition to any work benefits, allowing Mr G to protect 
any lump sum redundancy payment giving them increased financial stability at an 
already difficult time. 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative also argued Mr G didnt need PPI as he had good sick 
pay and an income protection plan covering long-term accident and sickness leave. 
But this policy only offered unemployment cover so this point isnt relevant to my 
analysis. They said he also had private healthcare, life insurance and loss of license 
cover. But these products all cover different events and wouldnt help with monthly 
mortgage payments in the same way as PPI. Given the consequences for Mr and 
Mrs G of defaulting on a large and long-term debt secured against their home, I think 
the PPI would have been useful for them if Mr G was sick or lost his job.
I dont know when the cost was first made clear to Mr and Mrs G, but the PPI was 
reasonably priced for the benefit it offered and it was apparently affordable. And they 
could cancel it without further cost if at any stage they no longer wanted it.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because of the problems with this sale.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman