DRN-2723352
The complaint
Mr B complains that Prudential Assurance Company Limited didnt treat him fairly when it 
sold him his annuity in 2007, and he missed out on an enhanced annuity as a result.
What happened
Mr B had a personal pension with Prudential.
In October 2007 Mr B contacted Prudential about taking his pension. So Prudential sent 
Mr B quotes for taking his pension benefits. He used his personal pension to take a 
maximum tax-free cash lump sum, and then purchased an annuity from Prudential with the 
remainder of his pension. He selected a single life annuity, with no yearly increases and no 
guarantee period.
Mr B complained to Prudential in 2019 because he was concerned that his annuity had been 
mis-sold. He said he wasnt given any advice on choosing his annuity. And that he wasnt 
told he had the right to buy his annuity elsewhere. And that he wasnt aware that he might 
have been eligible for an enhanced annuity because of his health conditions at that time.
Prudential said that the Key Features Document (KFD) that Mr B was sent with his annuity 
quote provided all the information needed. They said that they didnt provide advice on the 
annuity sale, but the information in the KFD explained the right to buy an annuity elsewhere 
and addressed enhanced annuities.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs case and explained his view. Mr B said Prudential could 
have given him better advice and should have offered him an enhanced annuity. So he 
asked for the case to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I looked into the case and issued a provisional decision to both sides explaining my 
thoughts. In my provisional decision I was minded to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I explained 
that Prudential werent providing Mr B with financial advice. But explained that they had to 
provide information about his options in a clear way so that he could make an informed 
choice.
I referred to the KFD and accepted that it provided an explanation about the right to shop 
around for alternative quotes. Which Mr B had accepted from our investigators view.
I didnt think that the information that Prudential provided did enough to explain the 
availability of enhanced and impaired life annuities. I thought that the references in the KFD 
we were shown only referred to serious illness. And failed to include the definitions that were 
recommended by the Association of British Insurers (ABI) or in the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) fact sheet Your pension  its your time to choose. And I was of the opinion 
that had the KFD included the information that it should have, Mr B would have most likely 
obtained a quote for an enhanced annuity.
Prudential responded by sending us a copy of their Income For Life guide. They said that 
this would have also been sent to Mr B along with the KFD with his annuity quotes. This 
document provided more information about enhanced annuities, including a list of conditions 
that specifically included diabetes.
I contacted Mr B and shared this information with him. I explained that this new information 
changed my provisional finding. In my follow up to Mr B I said:
Prudential have always said that the annuity quote that you were sent was 
accompanied by the Key Facts Document. And I can see from the application form you 
signed and returned that it implied that was the case. But it also indicated that the 
quotes were sent with a retirement brochure. As I said in my provisional decision I 
thought it was likely that you would have been sent the Key Facts Document. But I 
explained why I didnt think it provided you with fair information.
Now that Ive seen the retirement brochure, that I also think you would have been sent, 
Ive had to consider the information in that too. Youll see that it provides a bit more 
information about enhanced annuities. But crucially in your case, specifically lists 
diabetes as a condition that might have qualified you for an enhanced annuity.
Mr B responded saying that he hadnt seen the Income For Life guide explaining about 
enhanced annuities. He questioned when the document was published. And he asked why 
Prudential hadnt provided this explanation to him when he originally made his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B explains that he didnt have financial advice when he bought his annuity with 
Prudential. He says that Prudential sent out information that gave him a list of 6 choices to 
pick from, and he wasnt contacted by them to discuss his choices. He didnt feel informed 
that he may have been eligible for an enhanced annuity. He raises this because at the time 
he bought his annuity he suffered from diabetes which was a medical condition that might 
have applied. I can see that hes since suffered from deteriorating health because of his 
condition so understand his concerns.
Im satisfied from the information provided that this was a non-advised sale. Mr B contacted 
Prudential asking for quotes for his retirement options. This was ahead of the policys normal 
retirement date, so he hadnt yet been sent a wake-up pack  intended to inform Mr B of the 
choices he would have. So Prudential werent responsible for providing Mr B with advice 
regarding his annuity options. But there was a responsibility on them to provide clear 
information so that he could make an informed choice.
One of the things that Prudential needed to let Mr B know when selling him his annuity was 
that he was entitled to shop around with different providers to see if he could get a better 
annuity. I explained in my provisional decision why I thought the KFD Prudential provided 
made that clear. And Mr B hasnt challenged that point.
Prudential also needed to let Mr B know that enhanced and impaired life annuities were 
available for certain medical or lifestyle conditions. For the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision, I didnt think the KFD which Prudential showed us made that sufficiently 
clear. There was clear guidance published by the ABI at the time and the KFD didnt appear 
to comply with that. Id asked Prudential for further information about what Mr B had been 
sent and none was provided until after Id issued my provisional decision when they provided 
their Income For Life Guide.This pension guide has a publication date of 04/2007 on the bottom of the last page. So I 
accept its the correct version of this document for the time that Mr B was sold his annuity. 
Ive seen a copy of the annuity quote acceptance that Mr B signed in November 2007. It 
referred to the paperwork included in that pack. And in the margin of page 1 said the 
retirement brochure and the key facts booklet enclosed with this pack provide important 
information that will help you understand your quotation and the options available to you. So 
its more likely than not that Mr B would have received both the Income For Life retirement 
brochure as well as the KFD.
The FSA factsheet explained that enhanced and impaired life annuities paid a higher income 
depending on health or lifestyle. It explained that some companies pay higher annuities to 
people who are overweight, have high cholesterol, are smokers or in poor health. 
Prudentials KFD and retirement brochure only focus on the availability due to serious ill 
health. Which I still think is insufficient. But I have to consider whether the absence of clear 
information about the availability for an enhanced annuity for lifestyle factors made a 
difference in this case. And I appreciate that Mr B is disappointed with my decision but I 
dont think it would have.
On page 11 of the retirement brochure it explained those suffering from, for example, 
diabetes, high blood pressure, heart disease or cancer could potentially receive a higher 
pension income. Which makes a difference in Mr Bs case because he was diagnosed with 
diabetes at the time of choosing his annuity. I think the information Prudential provided Mr B 
should have made it clear that he may qualify because of his health. But he didnt apply for 
an enhanced annuity. So I dont think its likely that he would have even if the retirement 
brochure more closely mirrored the information in the FSA fact sheet.
I can understand Mr Bs concerns that he may have been eligible for an enhanced annuity. 
And I share his disappointment that Prudential failed to share a copy of their retirement 
brochure when he first made his complaint. But Im now satisfied that the information Mr B 
was sent with his annuity quotes informed him that the medical condition he had may have 
made him eligible for an enhanced annuity. So Im not able to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman