DRN-1634011
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to 
her the money that she paid to a hotel. 
What happened
Mrs Y used her Tesco Bank credit card in April 2019 to pay £156 for a three night stay in a 
hotel for her husband and herself that she booked through a booking company. When she 
arrived at the hotel she wasn't satisfied with the quality of it so she didn't stay at the hotel -
but she was charged in full. She complained to the hotel and then claimed a refund from 
Tesco Bank under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
It said that the payment had been made to the hotel but Mrs Y had booked it through the 
booking company so the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship required for a claim under 
section 75 wasn't present. It apologised that it had made an error about Mrs Y's e-mail 
address which meant that she didnt receive the e-mail that it sent to her and it said that it 
would send her a cheque for £25 as compensation for that. Mrs Y wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs Y 
had paid the hotel and it had agreed to provide the services to her so there was a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. She said that she couldn't conclude that there had been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation and she thought that Tesco Bank had responded 
fairly and reasonably to Mrs Y's complaint. 
Mrs Y has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She has responded 
in detail and says, in summary, that:
they did show up at the hotel and fully intended to stay, but, due to the issues with 
the hotel and for health and safety reasons, that wasn't possible;
Tesco Bank is accountable for that and responsible for the vendors that it allows to 
accept its credit card payments;
she has previously sent copies of the negative reviews posted about the hotel from 
various customers who have had similar experiences to hers; and
she should not only be paid back the full amount charged to her credit card, but also 
be compensated for the distress this experience has caused  her husband and 
herself.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold Mrs Y's complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
relating to the hotel and that Tesco Bank's response to her claim under section 75 wasnt fair 
or reasonable. Im not determining the outcome of Mrs Ys claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Mrs Y has provided a detailed description of the issues that she had with the hotel. I've 
reviewed the evidence that Mrs Y has provided about the hotel, including the information on 
the booking company's website, her description of the issues and the reviews from other 
customers. 
I sympathise with the disappointment and frustration that she feels about the hotel. But the 
cleanliness, quality and acceptability of a hotel can be a very subjective assessment. The 
hotel was advertised as being "three star" and Mrs Y paid £156 for a three night stay for two 
people. Having considered all of the information that Mrs Y has provided, I'm not persuaded 
that there's enough evidence to show that the hotel was misrepresented to her.
The room was available to Mrs Y and her husband but they chose not to use it. I consider 
that the booking conditions made it clear that Mrs Y would be charged in full if she didn't 
cancel her booking in advance - and she didn't do so. Mrs Y had agreed to pay the hotel 
£156 and it charged her that amount on the day that she arrived at the hotel. I'm not 
persuaded that there's enough evidence to show that there's been a breach of contract in 
these circumstances.
Tesco Bank did give incorrect information to Mrs Y about the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship and it did make an error about her e-mail address. It has apologised for its error 
and said that it would send her a cheque for £25 as compensation for that. 
But I don't consider that there's been a breach of contract or misrepresentation relating to 
the hotel. So I find that it wouldn't be fair or reasonable in these circumstances, for me to 
require Tesco Bank to refund to Mrs Y any of the money that she paid to the hotel, to pay 
her any other compensation or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Y's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman