DRN-3566043
The complaint
Mr P says that Canada Life Limited has unreasonably delayed paying his critical illness 
claim and failed to apply the correct rate of interest to the payment  he believes this should 
be added at a rate of 8% simple interest. He also complains that Canada Life did not allow 
him to use its personal nurse service, which would have given valuable support to his family.  
What happened
Mr P is a member of his employers group critical illness scheme, which has been operated 
by Canada Life since 1 July 2020. 
In January 2021, Mr P pursued a claim to Canada Life under the definition of major organ 
transplant. He had been placed on a heart transplant waiting list in September 2020  and 
the policy wording allowed for a claim at the time of inclusion on an official UK waiting list. 
However, in March 2021, Canada Life refused the claim. It said at the time of entering the 
group scheme in 2020, Mr P had a pre-existing condition and this fell under its policy 
exclusions. In March 2018, Mr P had suffered a stroke. His ongoing medical history included 
complex congenital heart issues. He had also undergone an emergency heart surgery in 
November 2020, from which he was discharged in December 2020. However, on that 
occasion he had presented at hospital in October 2020 and been diagnosed with a stroke. 
Mr P appealed the decision, and additional medical evidence was sought. He also pursued a 
complaint in May 2021. Mr P thereafter underwent a successful heart transplant operation in 
June 2021 and was discharged from hospital in September 2021. 
In February 2022, Mr P pursued the complaint to this service as Canada Life had failed to 
provide an outcome to his complaint. 
In March 2022, Canada Life addressed Mr Ps complaint. In that same letter, it agreed the 
claim could be paid for the sum assured of £325,000. To the claim payment, it added 
£4,173.80 interest. This was calculated at a rate of 0.5% above the Bank of England (BoE) 
base rate from March 2021  the date at which Canada Life had originally refused the claim.  
It also paid Mr P £1,000 to represent the trouble and upset he had been caused in terms of 
the time taken to complete the appeal process. Though there had been delays in receiving 
medical evidence Canada Life said it had needed to review and understand conflicting and 
complex medical information with its reinsurers. It accepted that the wait had impacted Mr P 
and therefore the compensation was awarded to account for that. 
Canada Life also confirmed to this service that it had correctly ascertained that 8% simple 
interest was not payable to Mr P. It said this was because the claim payment hadnt been 
awarded by a third party such as the Financial Ombudsman Service nor had Mr P needed to 
borrow money because of a delayed claim payment. The interest merely represented the 
point at which the claim was first made. In any event, it said Mr P had already accepted the 
payment of the claim with the BoE+ 0.5% so this point should be settled.  
One our investigators reviewed the complaint, but she didnt think it should succeed. She 
said Canada Life refused the initial claim based on the information it had seen  which it was 
entitled to do. It had then fairly considered Mr Ps appeal. While the delays in doing so were 
considerable, these were predominantly caused by the GP, not Canada Life. The 
investigator said it had been reasonable for Canada Life to request the further information it 
needed, since it was key to the claim decision and exclusions in the policy terms.
She also did not think 8% interest was appropriate in Mr Ps case. Canada Life overturned 
its decision on receipt of additional medical evidence and did so promptly once it was 
supplied information for verification of a valid claim. So she did not think Mr P had been 
unreasonably denied the claim payment before March 2022 and so further interest was not 
warranted.  
Finally she noted that Mr P hadnt ticked the personal nurse service box on his claim form  
and he needed to have done so in order to utilise the service. She didnt think Canada Life 
should be at fault for that. And it had fairly paid him £1,000 to account for any other upset. 
  
Canada Life agreed with the outcome reached by our investigator. However, Mr P did not. 
He asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman and made some further written 
submissions. In summary, he said:
after he complained originally, Canada Life did not adhere to providing updates every 
four weeks in relation to the complaint or provide a final response within eight weeks;
this is in contrast to its regulatory requirements;
it is incomprehensible to him that businesses such as Canada Life can fail to follow 
fair complaint procedures;
he still felt that Canada Life had the majority of the information it required from the 
GP at the time of assessing the claim in early 2021;
if he hadnt challenged the claim refusal, hed never have had a claim paid;
in March 2022, Canada Life updated its group scheme terms and conditions  to him 
this implies there was an issue with the original policy terms;
though our investigator said that the information awaited was received by Canada 
Life in March 2022, he believes it had the information in October 2021;
there was already a huge degree of stress on both himself and his family because of 
the nature of his condition;
Canada Life unfair exacerbated this stress;
the reason he could not access the personal nurse service was because the claim 
had been declined;
the service would have been a significant help to his family, both financially and 
emotionally;
if the claim had been rightly accepted in 2021, he could have avoided living away 
from his family for several months whilst renovations were done at home to 
accommodate his safe return;
he is now suffering from post-traumatic stress and upset as a consequence of being 
separated from his family;
he feels that Canada Lifes actions have impacted unreasonably on his mental 
health;
the delays were solely created by Canada Life due to improper assessment of the 
original claim and its failure to undertake a timely appeal. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. Id also like to send my best wishes to Mr P and his family. I recognise that the 
circumstances of his illness, treatment and the claim have been particularly tough for him. 
However, I cannot merely uphold a complaint because of my sympathy for a complainant; I 
have to be fair to both parties. It is my view that this complaint should not succeed. I realise it 
will not be what Mr P has hoped for, but I will explain why Ive reached this conclusion below.  
Mr P has said in his response to our investigator that he feels it is unfair of Canada Life to 
issue new group policy terms. However, I dont find it unreasonable. It is also important to 
note that this later change has no bearing on this complaint as Mr Ps claim was assessed 
against the previous terms. 
To explain for Mr P, group critical illness schemes allow set numbers of members to join or 
make accepted changes to their provisions at defined periods during any particular policy 
year without prior underwriting. Because the insurer has not had the opportunity to 
individually assess the members circumstances, these types of cover include policy 
exclusions which are reviewed at the time a scheme member makes a claim.
Additionally, insurers will periodically review and reissue terms  this doesnt imply that the 
previous terms were unfair; rather, a business may use legitimate discretion to determine 
what insurance terms it will offer. The wording that insurers choose to adopt in protection 
policies can change over time, as conditions are removed or added to policies for myriad 
reasons including advancements in treatment, industry guidance, or changes to medical 
knowledge. 
Insurers such as Canada Life use exclusions and moratoriums because entrants to group 
schemes are not underwritten. An insurer is entitled to protect itself from claims where a new 
entrant is suffering from an existing or related illness before the insurance goes on risk. To 
include exclusions of this nature is standard practice for group policies of this type. So, it 
wasnt unfair for Canada Life to seek evidence regarding Mr Ps previous medical history in 
order to ascertain if a policy exclusion applied as set out in the terms and conditions.  
The policy wording for Mr Ps claimable event gave a list of related conditions, for which 
stroke was not included. However, it was included on the general clause relating to pre-
existing conditions. And, Mr P had suffered a stroke less than two years before Canada Life 
began operation of the scheme. 
Given Mr P appealed the decision, Canada Life said it would overlook the ambiguity relating 
to stroke as either a pre-existing or related condition. But it needed to liaise with Mr Ps GP 
in order to establish that he had not previously undergone open heart surgery as this second 
condition and procedure (as a distinct claimable event) could also have triggered the same 
exclusion. I recognise that this distinction is unusual and may be difficult for Mr P to 
appreciate. But Canada Life was reasonably entitled to determine if any exclusions applied 
and it was also entitled to apply the judgement of its medical panel to decide a claim 
outcome and appeal. Mr P had recourse to this service if required.  
I can see that it took a long time for Canada Life to get the requisite information from Mr Ps 
GP. But I do not agree that this should mean interest ought to apply on the claim beyond 
what has already been awarded. What Canada Life did was place Mr P in the financial 
position he would have been in had it received evidence of a valid claim at the time it was 
first refused in March 2021. It wasnt obliged to do so (if an exclusion applied) or to backdate 
the interest it has awarded. However, Canada Life has used reasonable redress above the prevailing rates which were available on deposit accounts using the BoE benchmark.  
So, it follows that Canada Life has fairly discharged its duty under the policy to meet the 
claim payment on receipt of complete evidence to show that no exclusion applied. That was 
the reason the claim payment wasnt made to Mr P any earlier; clearly the event itself 
occurred when Canada Life received notice from Mr P of his admission to the transplant list. 
I recognise that an earlier payment would have assisted Mr P when returning home with 
adaptations, but Canada Life was not liable to make a claim without satisfactory evidence.  
I do not believe that Canada Life should calculate interest any differently than it has. If an 
award had been made by this service whereby we uphold a complaint about a refused claim 
and direct a payment to be made, we may include interest awards on top of compensation 
awards when redressing a loss a consumer has suffered. This separate interest award (in 
most cases, simple interest of 8% after April 1993) is intended to compensate a consumer 
for being deprived of money that he or she would otherwise have been able to use 
elsewhere but for the business having made a mistake of some kind  in this case, in not 
paying a claim at an earlier, defined point when it should have been settled.
However, as Ive said above, Canada Life has evidenced that it did not have the information 
to confirm the absence of any pre-existing condition from Mr Ps GP until March 2022. And it 
then backdated the claim by a year, including simple interest above what Mr P could have 
received if hed placed the funds in a deposit-based bank account using BoE rates. That is a 
fair and reasonable approach to take; Canada Life has not erred in delaying the claim 
payment or otherwise deprived Mr P of the funds and so, 8% interest does not apply here. 
I also believe that the compensation for the delay in providing a complaint outcome is within 
the range of awards that this service could make for distress caused by a business actions 
or inactions, such as during the course of pursuing an insurance claim. 
Even if I were to think differently about that, I could not make any findings on the delays to 
the complaint outcome for two reasons. One, we are not the regulator; that role falls to the 
Financial Conduct Authority. And two, complaints to this service do need to be about specific 
regulated activities or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by a business in 
relation to regulated activities (such as the operation of an insurance policy). Complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity in its own right and does not fall within our jurisdiction. 
If a business does not reply to a complaint within eight weeks, a consumer has the right 
under our rules to lodge the matter at this service, without further delay. I would not therefore 
make any award for the failure to reply within the eight week time limit anyhow. As Ive 
already noted, I do believe £1,000 is a fair sum to account for the other delays in providing 
an appeal outcome to Mr P. This clearly took longer than it should have, albeit some of the 
delay was caused by Mr Ps GP. I believe it is a fair award accounting for the upset caused. 
Finally, I know Mr P has explained how his policy included a personal nurse service. I have 
looked at the policy information about the service and Canada Life confirms if youve 
requested support on the claim form, well refer your case to the personal claim service.
The claim form says IMPORTANT  Please tick this box if you want to receive free support 
from a personal nurse. The box was left blank, and therefore Canada Life did not action 
this. So, I dont accord with Mr Ps view that the service was only open to Mr P in the event 
of a valid claim. It was offered at the point of making a claim, but he didnt inform Canada 
Life of his requirement  and the onus was on him to do so in clear terms. 
I note that after Canada Life issued its final response, Mr P did opt into the service and was 
promptly referred by Canada Life on 1 April 2022. I cannot conclude Canada Life did anything wrong as it was a provision that Mr P needed to request, as he has since done.  
My final decision
I am not able to uphold this complaint, nor do I make any award.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman