DRN-1313762
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to return their original title 
deeds after they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
I wont go into detail about the background of the complaint as it has become very protracted 
and muddled, and to try to detail a timeline here wouldnt help matters.
The mortgage was repaid in July 2018. In 2019 Mrs and Mr B contacted Barclays to find out 
where their deeds were. Barclays said it didnt have them.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong. Mrs and Mr B didnt agree 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
I trust Mrs and Mr B wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point 
its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.
For almost 80 years after the passing into law of the Law of Property Act 1925 and the 
Land Registration Act 1925, conveyancing was done on paper with processes and 
practices that were the same for decades. Property titles were registered in documents 
which were held by the owners or mortgagees. But since 2003 scanning and subsequent 
destruction (known as dematerialisation) of physical documents became the required 
practice, as a result of the Land Registration Act 2002, which came into force on 13 October 
2003.  
Rule 203(6), Land Registration Rules 2003, makes provision for the destruction of original 
documents; an electronic image is deemed a sufficient copy and is used to produce official 
copies. This means that paper documents are obsolete and are no longer evidence of title. 
Given the passage of time, its not possible to say with certainty what happened to the paper 
documents. But what we do know is that they  or at least some of them  were sent to Mrs 
and Mr Bs solicitor in 2016. Mrs and Mr B have said we were thinking of selling the property about two years ago, the solicitors were [name of 
the firm] but we never went through with the sale, when I asked Barclays for the deeds I 
think they said that they did not have them as they sent them to the solicitors which they did, 
I spoke to the solicitors and they did have some papers still which had gone into their 
storage, I dont know why they did this and not returned them to Barclays however they did 
then send them to me but this is when we found out that the majority of history papers were 
no longer there, I did ask [the solicitor] to double check which they did but there was nothing 
else.
So its clear from this that at least some of the original deeds were sent to Mrs and Mr Bs 
solicitor, and also that the solicitor didnt tell Mrs and Mr B they had them nor did they tell 
Barclays they no longer needed them as the sale wasnt going ahead. There would have 
been absolutely no reason for Barclays to have gone to the trouble of splitting up the 
paperwork and only sending part of the deeds out to the solicitor, instead it would most likely 
have sent all or nothing. When considering any complaint like this, as Mrs and Mr B are the 
ones bringing the complaint against Barclays, to uphold the complaint Mrs and Mr Bs 
version needs to be more likely than Barclays version; not just as likely. Having considered 
everything I cant say Mrs and Mr Bs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt 
enough for me to uphold their complaint.
Im satisfied - on the balance of probabilities - that in 2016 Barclays sent all the deeds it held 
out to Mrs and Mr Bs solicitor at their request, so Barclays doesnt have any paper deeds 
and other documents Mrs and Mr B asked for. I cant reasonably require Barclays to provide 
documents that it doesnt have, nor can I award compensation to Mrs and Mr B for it not 
having those documents.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman