DRN-4046759
The complaint
Mrs E complains about unreasonable delays by Standard Life Savings Limited  trading as 
abrdn when completing an ISA transfer. 
What happened
Standard Life accept that theyve caused unreasonable delays in this case. They twice 
chose not to honour cheques theyd sent to Mrs Es new ISA provider. It seems Standard 
Life had flagged Mrs Es account in some way that meant they needed to do some further 
checks before releasing her money. It seems that before theyd been able to complete those 
checks, the process for honouring the cheques had timed out. 
Standard Life eventually managed to send Mrs Es money to her new provider electronically. 
They also made a payment to the new ISA to cover interest the new provider calculated had 
been lost because of the delay. And Standard Life offered Mrs E £200 compensation to 
acknowledge the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. 
Mrs E didnt feel that was a suitable amount of compensation, so she came to us. But one of 
our investigators looked at the case, and felt the £200 was a reasonable amount. Mrs E 
didnt agree, and the case is now with me for a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint. But I find the offer Standard Life made to resolve it 
is suitable in this case. Ill briefly explain why.
I agree with Mrs E that the issues Standard Life have had with honouring their cheques was 
unreasonable. Certainly after the first time it happened, they should have realised that 
unless they identified and fixed the problem it would happen again the second time. The 
repeat of the error was clearly frustrating for Mrs E, as well as delaying what should have 
been a simple process  honouring a cheque. 
Im pleased to see Standard Life have held their hands up to their mistakes. The issue then 
is how to put things right.
Putting things right
Standard Life have taken steps to make sure Mrs E hasnt lost out on the interest she would 
have received, if the service had been more reasonable. I find the approach taken there was 
reasonable, and nothing is needed to put right the financial impact in this case. 
The distress and the inconvenience caused for Mrs E cant be undone. It happened, and all 
Standard Life can really offer is an acknowledgement that it shouldnt have. 
Compensation in these circumstances can serve as a way of providing that sort of 
recognition. But theres no set formula for working out how much that should be. Instead, 
different factors need to be taken into account, and broadly balanced out.
Here, theres no lasting financial impact on Mrs E. The money that was delayed wasnt 
needed for her day-to-day living expenses, or for a significant and time critical purchase. 
While it would have been concerning to think the money might have gone missing or been 
taken fraudulently, within a few days the ISA providers and Mrs Es advisor do seem to have 
been able to identify that wasnt the case and Standard Life still had the money.
I appreciate Mrs Es talked about the calls she had to make. And Ive seen the emails she 
wrote. And the frustration was added to by the same thing happening twice, after Standard 
Life failed to sort it out at the first attempt. 
With all of the above factors in mind, Ive thought about Standard Lifes offer to pay Mrs E 
£200. Its a matter of opinion, but in my view that suitably balances the factors above with 
the fact that the payment Standard Life already made to put right the lost interest has kept 
there from being a lingering financial impact for Mrs E. As such, Ive decided to direct that 
£200 is the right figure for this case. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Es complaint about Standard Life Savings Limited  trading as 
abrdn. I can see theyve already put right the financial impact on Mrs Es ISA. To recognise 
the emotional impact on Mrs E, Standard Life should pay her a total of £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman