DRN-3030792
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
I can see there was some confusion about Mr Gs place of work at the point of sale. But after 
our adjudicator made further enquiries, Mr G clarified he was working in the role specified on 
the credit card application form. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought RBSs offer to pay 
back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr G paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that its offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for 
the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
I can see that in the PPI questionnaire, Mr G said he thought the cover had been sold to him 
on the telephone. But looking at the credit card application form, I think its most likely PPI 
was sold to him at the same time as he made a postal application for his credit card. That 
means I think hed have been able to consider and complete the PPI application in his own 
time and at his own pace.   
The first thing Ive considered in this case is whether RBS made it clear that PPI was 
optional and Mr G didnt have to take it out if he didnt want it. I can see that for the cover to 
be added to his account, Mr G had to indicate he wanted it on the application form, and he 
did so. I think it would have been clear that Mr G could have just left that section blank if he 
didnt want PPI. And I note that Mr G refused another financial product offered at the same 
time by leaving the relevant section blank. 
It was argued on Mr Gs behalf that PPI was included as part of a package alongside his 
credit card. I cant reasonably say that was the case. In my view, it would have been clear 
from the application form that PPI was a separate financial product to the credit card. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G. That means it didnt have to check that the cover 
was right or suitable for his circumstances. But it did have to provide enough clear and timely 
information about the cover so he could decide if it was a good fit for his needs. 
I accept its possible the information RBS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint.
I can see that if hed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mr Gs credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month he was off sick or if he lost his job for up to 
12 months for each claim. His full balance would have been repaid in the unfortunate event 
of his death.  Mr G told us hed have had some sick pay from work. But it looks as though 
the PPI would have lasted for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. It seems to me 
most likely that the cover would have also lasted for longer than his redundancy entitlement. 
And I understand Mr G didnt have any other means to fall back on if he wasnt working. 
Mr G said he was in good health when he took the cover out. So he wouldnt have been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. I appreciate there were 
some limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions. There were some 
additional evidential requirements if Mr G had claimed for either of these conditions. But in 
light of Mr Gs circumstances at the time of the sale, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong 
or unsuitable. I dont think hed have thought hed be able to make a claim without providing 
supportive medical evidence. On balance, I think he would have still thought he had some 
good reasons to take the policy out.
I havent seen anything that was unusual about Mr Gs employment circumstances that 
would have stopped him from being able to make a successful claim if he needed to. From 
the information Ive seen, it also looks like the PPI was affordable. I can see how the policy 
could have been helpful to Mr G at what would have no doubt been a stressful time for him if 
he was out of work.  With all of this in mind, I cant reasonably say Mr G would have declined 
the cover had RBS given him more or better information about it. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr G would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult time. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr Gs representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant RBS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided RBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
RBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
RBS didnt tell Mr G about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment 
in Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship 
between RBS and Mr G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit 
Act because RBS didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit 
share in this case, 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipI dont think RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Gs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on this complaint.
In summary, it was argued Mr G should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: RBS failed to tell Mr G about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr G wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr 
G in order to remedy the unfairness caused by RBS not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus 
interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level 
of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in 
my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of 
the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for RBSs failure to disclose the level of commission for the reasons Ive given above. Im satisfied it was fair for RBS to calculate compensation in line with the 
FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr G paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Mr G 
with the policy Ive concluded above he would still have taken out if RBS had done 
everything it should have done  but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that RBSs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
As RBS has already paid Mr G compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr Gs complaint or make any award for 
this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr G an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable). As The Royal Bank of Scotland has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not require it to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman