DRN-3255168
The complaint
Mr T and X complain about the level of service and claim decisions reached by AXIS 
Speciality Europe SE (Axis) following claims against their real estate property owner 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Axis includes their agents. 
What happened
Mr T is the freeholder of a building which contains four flats. X was appointed as the sole 
managing agent for the properties, and co-owns the leasehold for flat one with Mr T. X took 
out the insurance policy with Axis through a broker and was named as the insured person, 
and says Mr T later became the insured person after the 2020-2021 renewal. 
In 2020, X raised a storm damage claim for flat four. Further claims were later raised for 
separate storm incidents affecting flats one and two. 
X says Axis didnt handle things well and caused delays. And the delays caused further 
damage to the internal parts of the building. Axis eventually accepted the claim made for flat 
one but declined the claims for flat two and four. They said X had no insurable interest in 
flats two and four, so they didnt think the policy should respond. 
Mr T and X didnt think this was fair. X says he was the sole managing agent responsible for 
arranging insurance, amongst other things, for the benefit of the leaseholders. He also said 
he had a declaration of trust in place with Mr T which he says demonstrated he had an 
insurable interest in the building. 
Axis didnt agree. They also say, even if they agreed X had an insurable interest in flats two 
and four, flat two was damaged due to poor workmanship, and repairs took place on flat four 
before the claim could be assessed, meaning their position had been prejudiced. 
Mr T and X remained unhappy, so they complained. Axis responded to it maintaining their 
position on the claims. They did, however, pay £300 compensation to X due to the way 
things were handled. 
Mr T and X approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt 
think Axis had shown they would have done anything differently had X originally said Mr T 
was the freeholder of the building, or there was a qualifying breach. She recommended Axis 
should reassess the storm damage claim for flat four, cover the carpets and underlay which 
had been an issue during the claim for flat one, and increase the compensation amount from 
£300 to £500. She didnt think Axis needed to take further action in respect of flat two. 
Axis agreed to resolve the claim issues surrounding flat one and increase the compensation. 
They didnt however agree to change their decision regarding flat four. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Axis entered a contract of insurance with X for the purpose and benefit of the leaseholders of 
the four flats within the building. I understand Mr T became the insured person after the 
claims were reported.
I dont think X has demonstrated they were a co-owner of the freehold of the building, but I 
dont think this makes a material difference here. X was the sole managing agent of the 
building and says he was responsible for arranging insurance, amongst other things. 
It appears the incorrect name was recorded on the insurance policy, which was later 
changed, to Mr T. I also havent been persuaded Axis have shown they wouldnt have 
offered cover had X originally said Mr T was the freeholder, or there was a qualifying breach 
here. As far as I can tell Axis was, and is, happy to insure the block  so it being in the wrong 
name is little more than a clerical error. 
So, I dont think Axis acted reasonably when declining the claims for flat two and four on this 
basis. Although, Im aware this wasnt the only reason why the claims were declined, so Ive 
gone on to consider the remaining aspects. Ill refer to each flat in turn for ease of reading. 
Flat one 
X was the leaseholder and following our involvement, the claim was settled, including the 
carpets and underlay. I also note our investigator explained why the claim was recorded as it 
was, so I dont need to give any further comment to this part of the complaint. 
Flat two 
Axis say that water entered flat two due to previous poor repairs. They say previous repairs 
were temporary which had failed over time, which resulted in water entering the property. 
This isnt an aspect Mr T and X disputed. However, they think the policy should respond to 
the internal damage, and said Axis told them to hold off carrying out repairs which led to 
delays and further damage being caused. 
I dont think Mr T and X have demonstrated that the internal damage was caused by a one-
off insured event. Axis says the internal damage wasnt consistent with the same, and I 
havent seen any strong supporting evidence to disagree. Nor do I think the policy is 
designed to cover the costs X says the tenant incurred when calling out an emergency 
engineer regarding the electrics. 
That all said, I appreciate Axis caused delays and should have handled things much better 
overall, which Ill address later in my decision. 
Flat four 
X says storm conditions occurred around August 2020 which caused damage. Ive also 
checked the weather records around this time, and Im satisfied there is sufficient evidence 
to suggest there was one. Axis declined the claim as they say X didnt have an insurable interest in flat four, and their 
position was prejudiced as repair work was completed prior to any claim assessment being 
undertaken. Ive already explained why I dont think Axis should have relied on the insurable 
interest argument, so I wont repeat that again. But I also dont think its fair to decline the 
claim because X had the works carried out when he did, particularly given the weather 
reports. Ill explain why. 
X says he reported the damage to Axis and was told to obtain a report. X then says he was 
told Axis would attend to assess the damage later, in December 2020. However, X says, 
when Axis attended, he was told they were only able to assess the claim damage in respect 
of flat two. Ive seen an email sent by Axis to X on 18 December 2020 confirming the same. 
Mr T and X had a tenant in situ and considered it reasonable to have the work completed in 
order to prevent a breakdown in relationship with the tenant and, importantly, to mitigate the 
risk of any further loss or damage. Im satisfied this was a reasonable decision for them to 
take. So, having taken all the information available to me into account, I dont think Axis 
acted fairly by declining to respond to the claim for flat four because the works were 
completed prior to them attending to assess the claim. 
I therefore think Axis should reconsider the storm damage claim for flat four in line with the 
remaining policy terms. I note X says he would accept 50% of the repair costs incurred in 
respect of repairing the damage to flat four in full and final settlement. Given the time thats 
passed, and the repairs have been completed, I dont think this appears unreasonable. Im 
mindful, however, Axis may wish to assess the claim and repairs to determine whether the 
policy should have responded. 
Compensation 
I agree things should have been handled better overall. 
Its clear unreasonable and avoidable delays were caused. Mr T and X have told us there 
was a lack of communication, organisation and confusion caused by Axis when handling 
these claims. They said this resulted in inconvenience and a breakdown in the relationship 
between them and the tenants, amongst other things. 
Having carefully considered things, Im in agreement £500 compensation in total is fair, 
reasonable, and proportionate to the impact the way things were handled had on Mr T and 
X. 
Putting things right
In concluding, I find Axis fairly declined the claim for flat two. 
I dont think they handled things fairly in relation to flat one and four. The claim for flat one 
has now been settled, so Axis must now reconsider the storm damage claim for flat four in 
line with the remaining policy terms. Axis have the option to reimburse 50% of the repair 
costs X incurred in having repairs completed which totalled £2,040. This would be in full and 
final settlement of the claim for flat four. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I now require AXIS Speciality Europe SE to 
reconsider the storm damage claim for flat four in line with the remaining policy terms. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman