DRN-3589979
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly cancelled their property owners 
insurance policy and declined their claim.  
Great Lakes has had agents acting on its behalf for the claim and complaint. For simplicity 
Ive referred to their actions as being those of Great Lakes. 
What happened
In early November 2021 a commercial property, Mr and Mrs R are responsible for, was 
broken in to. They claimed for damage and loss on their Great Lakes commercial property 
owners policy.
In late November 2021 Great Lakes declined the claim. It said the property had been 
unoccupied at the time of loss. It felt Mr and Mrs R had failed to act in line with a policy 
obligation requiring them to inform Great Lakes if the property became unoccupied. Great 
Lakes said if Mr and Mrs R had notified it the tenants had been evicted it would have 
provided only restricted cover on an interim basis, due to the change in risk. As theft 
wouldnt have been covered it refused the claim. 
In December 2021 Great Lakes said it had rereviewed its underwriting criteria against the 
circumstances. Having done so, it said it wouldnt have been able to insure any unoccupied 
building of the type insured. So instead of providing limited cover it would have actually 
cancelled the policy entirely. It said it was now retrospectively cancelling the policy from late 
October 2021 - seven days after the eviction of the previous tenants.
In January 2022 Great Lakes responded to a complaint from Mr and Mrs R. They had 
provided some explanation about how they had made site visits, how they had potential new 
tenants lined up and so on. However, Great Lakes didnt change its position. So 
Mr and Mrs R came to this service. They would like Great Lakes to cover the damage to the 
property and pay compensation for loss of rent. 
In May 2022 our investigator considered the complaint. He felt Great Lakes had acted fairly 
and reasonably by cancelling the policy and declining the claim. So he didnt recommend it 
cover the repairs or loss of rent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require Great Lakes to reinstate the policy, consider the 
claim or pay any loss of rent. 
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of
evidence provided by Mr and Mrs R and Great Lakes. Instead Ive focused on those I 
consider to be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have 
considered everything provided.
Great Lakes relied on a change in risk term in Mr and Mrs Rs policy terms to cancel their 
cover and decline the claim. We expect insurers to highlight this type of policy term before 
the cover begins. I can see it was explained, in Mr and Mrs Rs policy schedule, that they 
needed to provide detail of any change in circumstance to their broker. In addition its 
explained on page four of the full policy terms and conditions that they must notify Great 
Lakes immediately if the property becomes unoccupied. Unoccupied is defined by the terms 
as being closed for trade, untenanted and/or not resided in for a period of more than seven 
days. 
The property had been closed for trade since its tenants had been evicted on 
18 October 2021. I accept they were looking for new tenants, but it seems likely 
Mr and Mrs R would have been aware the property would be untenanted and closed for 
longer than seven days. And, considering the above, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R had been 
made aware of the need to let Great Lakes know about this change in circumstance 
immediately. 
So its reasonable for Great Lakes to say they breached this policy term. To have complied 
with the policy requirement they should reasonably have notified Great Lakes around 18 or 
19 October 2021. Ive considered what most likely would have happened if that breach 
hadnt taken place  i.e. they had provided Great Lakes with detail of the change in 
circumstances.
Great Lakes underwriter has explained the policy would have been cancelled with seven 
days notice. Having considered his explanation, including reference to the insurers 
underwriting criteria, Im persuaded it would have cancelled the policy had it been told of the 
change.
So, by cancelling the policy, Great Lakes would have altered the terms of the cover mid-
term. But I think its only fair for insurers to do so when the nature of the risk changes 
fundamentally. Great Lakes feels that is the case here. 
It explains the risk associated with unoccupied properties, of the type involved here, is 
greater than those that are tenanted and trading. It states they are often unoccupied long-
term. It adds they are a target for squatters and at high risk of malicious damage. 
Considering everything I think its reasonable for Great Lakes to say there was a 
fundamental change in risk to the use of the property. 
Great Lakes says it would have cancelled the policy on 25 October 2021  seven days after 
the date of eviction. However, it seems to have overlooked a requirement in the terms for it 
to give 14 days-notice of cancellation. But this wouldnt have any significant material impact 
 as the cover would likely have expired before the date of loss (4 November 2021). 
Mr and Mrs R have said they did tell their broker about the property being unoccupied and 
closed for trade. But they seem to be referring to events in 2020  when the premises were 
closed due to pandemic restrictions. The relevant period of unoccupancy and closure isnt 
directly related to the pandemic. Restrictions had been lifted and trade restarted before the 
October 2021 unoccupancy. So I cant fairly say Mr and Mrs R had notified Great Lakes or 
their broker of the relevant change in circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Rs involvement with the property derives from a court order. They dont own the 
property but instead exercise powers of management and investment. Ive considered their comments about this aspect. But I cant say the involvement of a court order means Great 
Lakes acted unfairly. Ive considered how its treated Mr and Mrs R as the named 
policyholders. For the reasons set out above I think its acted fairly and reasonably. So Im 
not going to require to it reinstate the policy or reconsider the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont require Great Lakes Insurance SE to reinstate the 
cover, consider the claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman