DRN-3477621
The complaint
Mr B complains that West Bay Insurance Plc (West Bay) declined a claim and avoided his 
policy following a car accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020, shortly after his motor insurance policy had renewed, Mr B was involved in 
a car accident. He made a claim to West Bay, but it declined his claim and told him it was 
avoiding his policy back to the renewal date. 
West Bay says that Mr B failed to disclose his correct occupation at the time his policy 
renewed. It says this information was set out in the renewal documents, which notified Mr B 
to ensure the information was correct. It says its underwriting criteria meant it wouldnt have 
offered cover if it knew Mr B was unemployed.
West Bay says it thought Mr Bs misrepresentation was a careless one, which means it 
would ordinarily return the premium. But as it had incurred costs as a result of the accident 
claim Mr B had made, it was retaining his premium. It also says it intended recovering any 
further damages, payments, and related costs from Mr B.      
Mr B didnt think this was fair. He says he didnt receive the renewal by post and the 
information provided by email didnt reference his occupation as a reason for avoiding the 
policy. He says he had planned to review the renewal information during the 14-day cooling 
off period, but the accident prevented this as it happened only a few days after the renewal. 
Mr B says he did contact his broker to explain his temporary change in employment prior to 
the renewal. He says an automated message advised that he neednt provide updates 
regarding a temporary employment status. Because he didnt think West Bays decision was 
fair, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He thought West Bay had been fair in declining 
the claim and avoiding the policy back to the renewal date because of Mr Bs 
misrepresentation about his occupation.
Mr B disputed our investigators view, but this didnt change his mind. So, he asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
West Bay says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to provide his correct occupation at the policy renewal in October 2020. It says that 
when Mr B took out his policy, he was asked a number of questions, including his 
occupation, and it used this information, along with the responses to its other questions, to 
evaluate the risk of the policy. West Bay says that when the policy renewed, the information 
Mr B had provided was detailed in the policy documentation he was sent. It says its his 
responsibility to ensure this information is correct. 
I have read the renewal email Mr B was sent in September 2020. This says:
Although we will automatically renew your policy, it is important that you view your 
documents to ensure that your details are up to date.   
And:
It is your responsibility to ensure that the information youve previously provided to us is 
correct. This information can be viewed in your most recent renewal offer, available in your 
Self-Service Centre.
Also:
It's important that you sign in to your Self-Service Centre to confirm that the information
regarding your cover is up to date such as any motor, driving or criminal convictions and
medical conditions. Failure to disclose accurate and complete information to the best of your
knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim or it not being 
fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null and void and treated as if it never 
existed.
I think this is clear that Mr B needs to confirm that his policy information was accurate. 
West Bay has provided a statement that shows the details Mr B provided when taking out his 
policy. This information was available to him when he received the renewal email. It confirms 
the occupation Mr B had previously provided. But Mr B was unemployed at the time he 
received the renewal email in September 2020, so this information wasnt accurate. He says 
he became unemployed in July.
I note Mr Bs comments that he didnt receive a postal copy of the renewal and he couldnt 
access the policy information via the links provided. But I dont think hes shown that a postal 
copy need be provided. He did receive several emails before the policy renewed  if he 
couldnt access information using the links, I would reasonably expect this to be highlighted 
to West Bay at an early juncture. I havent seen that Mr B did this.   Mr B explains his unemployment was a temporary situation caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic and that he was actively applying for jobs. I can see from the records West Bay 
supplied that he told it he had forgotten to update his occupation information because of 
everything else that was going on in relation to Covid. I also note his comments that he 
intended using the 14-day cooling off period to review the renewal information. 
I have thought carefully about the renewal information Mr B was sent and the circumstances 
he has described regarding his temporary unemployment and the Covid situation. Im sorry 
to hear that Mr B was made redundant during the pandemic, this must have been a difficult 
time for him. But I think the renewal information he received was clear and that he was made 
aware it was his responsibility to ensure the details set out in his policy were accurate. 
We asked West Point about the automated message Mr B had described when he called his 
broker. It contacted the broker and it says there is no record of a call from Mr B and that it 
hadnt been playing the message he describes. Mr B was asked to provide supporting 
evidence in relation to this point, but he was unable to provide this. I dont dispute Mr Bs 
recollection of the call he has referred to, but I dont have any evidence to support him 
making this call or that the message he refers was played.   
I dont agree with Mr B that the 14-day cooling off period was available for him to review the 
renewal information. This had to be done prior to the policy renewing. The cooling off period 
allows the policy to be cancelled without a fee. But the information the policy is based upon 
must be accurate prior to it going live. Because of this I dont think Mr B took reasonable 
care to ensure the details West Bay held in relation to his policy were accurate.  
West Bay has provided its underwriting criteria that shows it would not have accepted the 
risk had it known Mr B was unemployed at the time the policy renewed. This information is 
commercially sensitive, so Im unable to share it. But I have read the criteria and Im satisfied 
this shows cover wouldnt have been provided. So, Im satisfied that Mr Bs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
In the circumstances I think West Bays decision to treat Mr Bs misrepresentation as 
careless is fair. I dont think its been shown that he deliberately chose to misrepresent the 
situation.
CIDRA says that West Bay can refund the premium where a misrepresentation is careless if 
no claim has been made against the policy. But in this case, it explained, in its avoidance 
letter in November 2020, that it was retaining the premium as it had incurred liabilities as a 
result of the accident that took place in October.        
In the circumstances described Im satisfied that West Bay reasonably avoided the policy. 
This means that effectively it didnt exist and there was no insurance cover in place for Mr 
Bs losses from the accident. And Ive found West Bay is able to retain the premium in line 
with CIDRA in these circumstances. 
I note Mr B has raised some concerns that relate to his insurance broker. If he wants to raise 
these concerns about the sale, arrangement, or administration of his policy he can contact 
his broker to do so. But this isnt something I can consider in my decision about West Bay.
In summary, although I understand that Mr B is upset about West Bays decision to avoid his 
policy and decline his claim, I dont think its acted unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B 
but based on everything Ive seen Im not upholding his complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman