DRN-4223973
The complaint
Miss K complains that Loans 2 Go Limited did not treat her appropriately in relation to a loan 
that she applied for by mistake.
What happened
I set out below Miss Ks version of events and also Loans 2 Gos version of those same 
events.
Miss Ks version of events
Miss K indicated initially that she was intoxicated in June 2022 when she applied online for a 
loan with Loans 2 Go. The next morning when she realised what she had done Miss K 
contacted Loans 2 Go to let it know she wanted to withdraw from the loan by repaying the 
capital and would do so immediately. She tried to pay the loan back by attempting to log into 
her online account, but this resulted in her being locked out of her account for two weeks. 
Therefore she could not make the payment this way.  Further, Miss K found it impossible to 
get through to Loans 2 Go by phone.
Therefore Miss K tried a different approach. Miss K transferred the capital amount to Loans 
2 Go via her account with a third party bank. Miss K emailed Loans 2 Go to ask it to 
acknowledge receipt of the transfer. However, it took weeks to reply and when it did, it told 
her it had not received the transfer. On further investigation Miss K found out her bank had 
blocked the transfer as it thought Miss K was being scammed.
In October 2022 Miss K copied Loans 2 Go into an email she sent to a third party. In that 
email she told the third party the following about taking out the loan:
I remember taking this out when I unfortunately had a drink problem a few months ago.
Later, in January 2023, after a lot of to and fro between them, Loans 2 Go made a goodwill 
gesture to Miss K. The terms of the goodwill gesture were that if Miss K repaid the capital it 
would close the account. It gave her until 1 March 2023 to do this. But Miss K indicates 
Loans 2 Go did not act in good faith in relation to its goodwill gesture. She came to this 
conclusion for two reasons: First because Loans 2 Go sold the loan in January 2023. And 
second because when Miss K contacted Loans 2 Go on 1 March 2023 to ask it to give her 
until 31 March 2023 to pay off the capital it emailed her to say:
"Please be advised that we are unfortunately unable to extend the offer until the 31st of 
March 2023. The goodwill gesture offer was initially extended from 05/02/2023 to 01/03/2023 
on the 9th of January 2023 and we received no correspondence from yourself during this 
time to update us on your circumstances. As we received no contact from yourself and we 
[sic] unable to discuss your options going forward."
Miss K tells us that as Loans 2 Go had already sold the loan before the deadline it gave her 
this shows it had no intention of honouring its offer.  In addition, the email above made it 
clear that Loans 2 Go was saying it was too late for her to repay it. So even if she tried to 
repay it on 1 March 2023 it would not have accepted the payment. Therefore, according to 
Miss K both of these actions show that Loans 2 Go went back on its agreement with her, and 
this was unfair.
In addition, in any event, Miss K considers that Loans 2 Go has acted unfairly by keeping the 
account open and in applying interest to the loan.  
Further, Miss K has received several communications from Loans 2 Go telling her she has 
arrears on her account. Miss K considers that she should never have received 
communications about arrears, because she had done everything she needed to do to 
withdraw from the loan. Therefore to her mind, she no longer had the loan. In addition, Miss 
K considers that in any event the tone of the communications has been inappropriate and 
that the communications should not have been sent at all once she told it she wanted to 
withdraw from the loan. This has led to her feeling as if she is being pursued in a manner 
which is intended to harass her.
Miss K wants Loans 2 Go to accept the repayment of the capital amount and to close her 
account. She also wants it to remove any information it has asked the credit reference 
agencies to register about the loan on her credit file.
For all of these reasons Miss K complained to Loans 2 Go.
Loans 2 Gos version of events
Loans 2 Go responded that it had no record of Miss K trying to contact it the day after she 
entered into the loan. Neither did it have any record of locking Miss K out of her online 
account for two weeks immediately after the loan began. Rather, its records show that Miss 
K complained to it, for the first time, 13 days after she applied for and received the loan. At 
this point, Miss K told it that she wanted to withdraw from the loan because she was not 
previously aware of the interest rate which she considered to be illegal. She did not tell it at 
that point that she had been intoxicated when she applied for the loan.
Further, whilst Loans 2 Go recognised Miss K was unhappy about the rate of interest on the 
loan it did not think she had cause for complaint. It said this because it had told her about the 
interest rate as part of the application process, it had applied interest to the loan in line with 
the terms of the contract. Miss K had accepted those terms in applying for the loan. 
Therefore it did not consider it was acting unfairly by relying on those terms.
Moreover, Loans 2 Go pointed out that it had accepted Miss Ks request to withdraw. As a 
result it had sent her information about how to withdraw from the loan. Shed had thirty days 
from the date Loans 2 Go accepted her request to withdraw from the loan to pay off what 
she owed. But Miss K had not withdrawn from the loan within the relevant time period. 
Once the deadline to withdraw had passed Loans 2 Go contacted Miss K to let her know it 
had not received any payment from her. Therefore it had not been able to close her account. 
In addition, it let her know her account was now in arrears.
Thereafter, it had offered Miss K the opportunity to repay the loan early. Miss K chose not to 
repay the loan early. Rather, to date Miss K had made no payments whatsoever towards the 
loan. 
Loans 2 Go apologised to Miss K because she had found its correspondence inconvenient 
and it told her that it had not intended to cause her any distress or be unsympathetic by 
sending out this correspondence. It explained the correspondence was generated 
automatically by its systems because Miss Ks loan was in arrears.
In January 2023 despite the fact that the withdrawal period had long since passed Loans 2 
Go told Miss K that if she repaid the original amount she borrowed by 5 February 2023, it 
would close the account. Miss K responded asking it to extend the deadline to 1 March 
2023. She had indicated that she needed until 1 March as that would be her next payday 
and she could not pay it before then. Loans 2 Go extended the deadline until 1 March 2023. 
But Miss K did not make any payment. Instead she contacted it on 2 March 2023, asking for 
more time, but it declined to give her this, for the reasons set out in its email, which Ive 
copied above.For all of these reasons Loans 2 Go does not consider it has done anything wrong. It 
therefore did not accept Miss Ks stance that it has to do more than it has already done.
What happened after Miss K complained to our service
Dissatisfied, Miss K complained to our service.
Once Miss Ks complaint was with us she gave us some further information she told us that 
when she took out the loan she was taking anti-depressants. She explained she did not 
initially remember taking out the loan for this reason.
Moreover, Miss K told us when she contacted Loans 2 Go on 1 March 2023 she told it, if she 
could not get an extension until 31 March 2023 then she would pay it immediately. But its 
email made it clear that it would have refused to accept the payment from her. That is why 
she did not pay it on 1 March 2023 after it refused to extend the deadline.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ks complaint. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Miss Ks complaint be upheld.
Loans 2 Go accepted our investigators recommendation, Miss K did not. In brief, in rejecting 
our investigators recommendation Miss K reiterated her previous stance. She also made it 
clear that she does not intend to pay Loans 2 Go anything more than the sum she initially 
borrowed.
Miss K asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss K and Loans 2 Go disagree about several of the key issues in this complaint. Where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Vulnerability
Miss K has told us that when she entered into the loan she was intoxicated. This would 
suggest she was a vulnerable consumer when she took out the loan. It might also suggest 
she lacked capacity temporarily when she entered into the loan. 
A vulnerable consumer is someone who, due to their personal circumstances, is especially 
susceptible to harm, particularly when a financial business is not acting with appropriate 
levels of care.
Loan 2 Gos regulator the Financial Conduct Authority expects financial businesses to 
provide their customers with a level of care that is appropriate given the characteristics of the 
customers themselves. The level of care that is appropriate for vulnerable consumers may 
be different from that for others and financial businesses should take particular care to 
ensure they are treated fairly.Therefore if I found that Miss K was a vulnerable consumer, and that Loans 2 Go knew or 
ought reasonably to have known this Id have to look at whether Loans 2 Go treated Miss K 
appropriately due to her vulnerability. This might mean it had to do more for her than it might 
have done for a consumer who was not vulnerable.
However, the question of Miss Ks vulnerability in relation to this complaint is not clear-cut. 
As Ive mentioned above Miss K told us and she told a third party that she entered into the 
agreement when intoxicated. But based on the information Ive seen, she did not mention 
this to Loans 2 Go until October 2022, months after the event, and she has not explained 
why she did not say anything sooner. Rather, at the time, based on Loan 2 Gs records 
which include communications from Miss K, she told Loans 2 Go she wanted to withdraw 
from the agreement because shed entered into what she thought was a bad bargain. I might 
have expected in these circumstance that Miss K would have told Loans 2 Go about her 
drink problem immediately, if that is what had caused her to enter into the loan that she now 
wanted to withdraw from. 
In addition, Miss K has been inconsistent in what she has said about what made her 
vulnerable in June 2022. At first she said it was due to intoxication then later she told us 
shed been taking antidepressants in June 2022, and they caused her not to realise what 
she was doing when she entered into the loan. It is possible that Miss K was both intoxicated 
and using anti-depressants in June 2022. And it is possible that it was the combination of 
both that caused her to enter into the loan. But that is not what she has told us.
When I bear in mind these discrepancies, I have some difficulty accepting the accuracy of 
Miss Ks recollections about this point. It follows that I am not satisfied on balance, that when 
she entered into the agreement she was intoxicated and/or under the influence of 
prescription drugs and these clouded her judgement or indeed meant she lacked capacity. I 
am not satisfied on balance therefore that Miss K was a vulnerable consumer when she 
entered into the loan.
In any event, it appears that it was only in October 2022 that Loans 2 Go, was told that Miss 
K had previously had a drink problem. Therefore it was not on notice before then about her 
dink problem. Moreover, by the time Miss K mentioned this it appears her drink problem was 
a thing of the past. So I dont find that Loans 2 Go ought to have taken further action at this 
point in response to what Miss K said about her drinking problem in the past.
Withdrawal from the loan
That said, when any customer contacts a financial business within 14 days of taking out a 
loan and asks to withdraw from the loan Id expect the business to respond to that request. 
Specifically, Id expect that business to provide information to the consumer about how to 
withdraw. 
Miss K tells us she tried to withdraw from the loan the day after she entered into it. But aside 
from what she says about this, Ive not seen any information that supports this, such as 
something to show she got in contact with Loans 2 Go at this point. Miss K also says she 
was locked out of her online account for two weeks by Loans 2 Go. But the information Ive 
seen does not support that version of events. Rather it shows that Miss K did not contact 
Loans 2 Go to withdraw from their contract until 13 days in. At that point Loans 2 Go 
responded appropriately.
It is regrettable that Miss Ks transfer was stopped by her bank. But I cant fairly say Loans 2 
Go has to take responsibility for that. 
Moreover, I take on board that Loans 2 Go did not respond as quickly as Miss K thought it 
should when she asked it to confirm receipt of her transfer. But I dont think that this really 
caused a problem as far as the withdrawal from the loan went. I say this because I think it is 
likely all Miss K had to do was take a look at her account with her own bank and she would have seen that the money had not left her account. That in turn would most likely have led to 
her finding out what her bank had done.
Goodwill gesture
I note that Miss K says she contacted Loans 2 Go on 1 March, whereas Loans 2 Go says 
the contact happened on 2 March. I dont think this point is crucial here because whether the 
contact happened on 1 March or 2 March Loans 2 Go has not raised this as an issue. Rather 
it seems to have been prepared to accept for the purposes of this complaint that Miss K 
contacted it on 1 March, so Ive done the same since this point is not being argued.
I think that Loans 2 Go went further than it needed to have done when it made its goodwill 
offer that should Miss K pay off the capital by 1 March 2023 it would close the account. Miss 
K complains that it was never really going to keep its word about this because it sold the 
loan and would not accept payment on 1 March 2023 when she offered it. But I dont agree, 
and Ill explain why below.
I realise that Miss K thinks that because Loans 2 Go had already sold the loan before 
1 March 2023 that would have prevented it from closing the account. But thats not 
the case, this is a fairly common scenario, what the original lender does is buy the 
debt back and then close the account.
Miss K also thinks that the email which I quoted in the what happened section 
above means that Loans 2 Go was saying it would not accept payment even though 
she offered to pay it should it not want to extend the deadline. I cant see she said to 
Loans 2 Go if you dont agree to extend the deadline, Ill pay you today. Loans 2 Gos 
account notes seem to have captured all of the communications between them about 
this point. Ive no reason to think these records are inaccurate. I cant see Miss K 
offers to pay should her request be declined.
Moreover, neither do I agree that Loans 2 Gos email reads like it would not accept 
payment on 1 March 2023. I recognise that Miss K suggests it does. But I cant fairly 
hold Loans 2 Go to account if she formed that impression.
I also note that Miss K left it until the last minute before she asked Loans 2 Go for an 
extension. She has not explained why this was. I dont think it is unreasonable that in the 
circumstances Loans 2 Go was not prepared to extend the deadline again.
The contractual interest rate
Miss K complains about the interest rate. Loans 2 Go tells us about the process Miss K had 
to go through to apply for the loan online. I see no reason why it would have departed from 
its normal procedure in this case. 
Im satisfied that the process gave Miss K a reasonable opportunity to understand the terms 
of the loan including the interest rate. Moreover, she agreed to the loan. And I think is 
reasonable to conclude that where a party enters into an agreement that theyve had a fair 
opportunity to understand, and theyve gone ahead and contracted then they intended to be 
bound by it. This is what Im satisfied happened here.
It follows that for all of these reasons, I am persuaded that it is reasonable that Loans 2 Go 
can rely on the interest rate provisions in the loan. In other words, Ive no proper basis to say 
it must change the interest rate or must not apply it.
The communications from Loans 2 Go about the arrears
Miss K felt harassed by some of the communications Loans 2 Go sent her. Loans 2 Go says 
these were systems generated communications. Be that as it may they still needed to be 
appropriate. Ive had a look at what it sent, and I dont find their tone inappropriate. Nothing 
about the frequency or the timing of those communications appears to me to be 
inappropriate either.I appreciate that Miss K feels strongly that she had done what she needed to do in order to 
withdraw from the loan, therefore she no longer was bound by the loan. But that was not the 
reality of the situation. Rather she had a legally binding loan on the face of it and she was in 
arrears. In that situation, Loans 2 Go did nothing wrong in sending her communications 
about these arrears. Indeed it would have put itself in the wrong if it had not sent her these 
communications.
For all of these reasons I have no proper basis for telling Loans 2 Go it has to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman