DRN-4000547
The complaint
Mr B and Miss G are unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined their accidental 
damage claim for their broken TV.
For ease of reading, Ill only refer to Mr B throughout this decision. 
What happened
On 5 September 2022, Mr B took out a contents insurance policy with Ageas and listed his 
TV which cost £2,000 as a high value item. 
On 23 November 2022, Mr B made a claim on his policy for the above TV. He explained that 
on 19 November 2022, his child had accidentally hit the screen with a controller, and it would 
no longer work. After considering the claim, Ageas adviser explained they'd arrange for the 
TV to be replaced. However, Mr B said he didnt want that settlement option as he 
purchased a replacement as soon as the incident happened. The adviser therefore agreed 
to consider a cash settlement and asked Mr B to provide a receipt for the replacement TV.  
Mr B also explained that the faulty TV would need to be collected from his parents address 
as hed asked them to store it.
Mr B then provided a partial receipt which didnt show the date of purchase. So, the agent 
asked him to provide a further copy and explained the importance of evidencing the 
purchase date. In response, Mr B agreed to provide the full receipt. He also said the 
replacement TV was purchased a few weeks before the incident, and he originally planned 
to give it to his children for Christmas. However, hed since bought them something else 
which wasnt a TV. The receipt showed the TV cost £700, and the date of purchase was      
6 September 2022.
Mr B was then asked to provide details of his previous insurer as Ageas noticed hed owned 
the original TV since 2019. Mr B said the TV wasnt previously insured as he was living in his 
first home since leaving his parents address, and hed only recently thought about the  
benefits of taking out insurance. Ageas then checked the electoral role and this suggested 
Mr B had lived at his current address for around two years. So, they found the dates Mr B 
decided to take out insurance and purchase a second high value TV concerning. 
Ageas then declined the claim as they thought it was likely Mr Bs TV was damaged before 
the policy started. In reaching this conclusion, they highlighted the fact Mr B initially provided 
half a receipt, his unexplained change in testimony about the replacement TV, his strong 
desire for a cash settlement, the fact the TV was stored at his parents address and their 
concerns about the start date of the policy.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought 
Ageas had acted reasonably by declining the claim for the reasons they'd explained.
Mr B didnt agree, he said the claim should be settled and it was the purchase of the second 
TV that prompted him to think about insurance.  
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules and appropriate industry guidelines Ageas were required to 
consider Mr Bs claim promptly and fairly. And not reject it unreasonably. In turn, Mr B was 
required to act in good faith and show he had a valid claim under the terms of the policy. 
Specifically, that his TV was accidentally damaged during the period of insurance.
As detailed in the background section, I can see Ageas have raised a number of different 
concerns about the timeline of events, Mr Bs actions, and his conflicting testimony 
surrounding the purchase of the replacement TV. All of which resulted in them concluding 
the incident and damage may have predated the start of the policy. 
I appreciate Mr B may have simply not thought about taking out contents insurance until 
2022 and the purchase of the second TV could have prompted that decision. However, as 
detailed above, this is one of many concerns Ageas have raised about the claim. Including 
the fact, Mr B initially said he purchased a replacement TV as soon as the incident 
happened, and this wasnt the case. Im aware he later gave a different version of events, 
but it isnt clear why this was necessary, and the same explanation wasnt provided 
throughout. I also note the initial reluctance to provide a full copy of the requested receipt. 
Overall, I think Ageas have concluded reasonably that the circumstances surrounding this 
claim are unclear. And as it was ultimately Mr Bs responsibility to prove his claim, Im 
satisfied this means Ageas decision to decline it wasnt unreasonable or unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman