DRN-4056424
The complaint
Mr P complains that AWP P&C SA turned down his travel insurance claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy covers baggage damage, loss or theft (up to stated policy limits). 
AWP told Mr P it was declining his claim as the items werent covered under the 
policy. I agree with our investigator that the items being claimed dont fall within the 
list referred to by AWP. So, AWP cant turn down the claim for this reason. 
AWP then told this Service that it was relying on the policy term which says You 
must file and retain a copy of a police report in the case of theft of any items. 
Mr P thinks the items were stolen, though he doesnt know this for certain. He last 
saw them in his zipped bag at the airport abroad, and then he found they were 
missing when he unpacked after returning to the UK. He says his bag wasnt left 
unattended.
Mr P says that when he told AWP about the loss of his items, he was advised he 
didnt need to file a police report. Our investigator asked AWP for a copy of the calls, 
but it hasnt provided them. I wouldnt usually expect an insurer to advise someone 
not to file a police report in the case of suspected theft. However, it could be that 
AWP advised Mr P not to do so given that he wasnt certain a theft had occurred, and 
because he only discovered the loss when he was back in the UK. Though without 
the call, I cant be sure what was discussed. 
I see that Mr P has since attempted to file a police report in the country where the 
items went missing, but hasnt received a response. 
Overall, I dont think itd be reasonable for AWP to turn down the claim because Mr P 
didnt file a police report. I say that because Mr P cant be certain that the items were 
stolen rather than lost, and he only discovered the loss when he was in the UK. Also, 
when he did try to file the police report from the UK, he wasnt able to do so.
I think AWP handled this claim poorly as it didnt give Mr P the correct reason for 
turning down his claim. I agree with our investigator that AWP ought to pay Mr P £75 
compensation for the unnecessary confusion caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to pay the claim, in 
line with the remaining policy terms. 
*Interest should be added at 8% simple per annum from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
I also require AWP to pay Mr P £75 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman