DRN-2630154
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined a claim for subsidence 
under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The circumstances of the case arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue I need to decide here is whether it was fair for Aviva to rely on the exclusion in the 
policy which says damage caused by faulty materials, design or poor workmanship isnt 
covered. 
Ive decided it wasnt fair for Aviva to decline the claim based on this exclusion, for the 
following reasons:
Mr Ws extension suffered from subsidence due to clay shrinkage which was 
exacerbated by vegetation. Aviva has said the foundations werent deep enough and 
its cited NHBC guidelines. Ive read those guidelines, but I cant see Mr Ws 
extension was subject to them. This is because the extension was built on an existing 
property (not a new build), and Ive seen nothing to suggest the builder was required 
to take those guidelines into account.
Aviva has also referred to building regulations to explain why it thinks the extensions 
foundations ought to have been deeper than 1.0m. These say The depth to the 
underside of foundations on clay soils should not be less than 0.75m on low 
shrinkage clay soils, 0.9m on medium shrinkage clay soils and 1.0m on high 
shrinkage clay soils, although these depths may need to be increased in order to 
transfer the loading onto satisfactory ground, or where there are trees nearby. These 
regulations are relevant. However, as it says the depths may need to be increased, 
Im not satisfied thats an absolute requirement in order for building regulations to be 
met. And as the building work was approved by Mr Ws local authority, which carried 
out inspections throughout the various stages of the build, including at the time the 
foundations were laid, Im satisfied that the foundation depth met building regulations 
at the time. 
Aviva has raised the point that approval by building control does not necessarily 
mean the foundation depth was adequate. Its provided the opinion of an expert 
engineer who has said that, given the two mature oak trees in close proximity to the 
extension, the foundation depth shouldve been at least 2.9m. However, the 
regulations Aviva has quoted say that for mature trees the depth may extend to 5m. 
So again, I dont consider extending the depth to have been an absolute requirement 
in this case, but rather dependent on the maturity, location and number of trees. Ive 
considered the experts opinion carefully, but Ive also considered the information 
provided by Mr W, and Im persuaded by Mr Ws architects drawings and plans that 
due consideration was given to the depth of the foundations and that it was 
understood that all levels would be approved by the building inspector.
I think it wouldve been fair for Mr W to have believed, having received confirmation 
in the form of a completion certificate that the structure complied with building 
regulations, that reasonable steps had been taken to ensure the structure and its 
foundations were adequate. Ive seen a copy of the completion certificate, and Im 
persuaded that following site inspections, the building regulations were satisfied.
It follows therefore, that I dont think it was fair for Aviva to decline the claim under 
the defective design, materials and workmanship exclusion.
Putting things right
Aviva must deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman