DRN-3051640
The complaint
Miss F complains that the valuation of her property for her mortgage from Skipton Building 
Society (Skipton) was too low.
What happened
Miss F had a mortgage with Skipton. In March 2021, the balance was £146,394 and she 
wanted to borrow a further £40,000. Skipton completed a remote desktop valuation which 
came back as £230,000. Miss F thought her property was worth more so Skipton instructed 
a standard valuation using an approved valuer. This gave a value of £250,000. Both 
valuations were paid for by Skipton. 
Miss F appealed the valuation and the appeal was processed on 31 March 2021. But the 
appeal wasnt progressed as the appeals document didnt meet the criteria required by the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS).
On 10 April 2021, Skipton made a mortgage offer for £186,394, based on the valuation of 
£250,000. This was approved on 1 April 2021 and was drawndown on 1 June 2021.
Miss F complained. She said the valuation was wrong. There were many other properties 
where she lived that were worth a lot more. She had therefore lost out. She also said that the 
valuer behaved inappropriately when he called.
Skipton said the valuer was a third-party company. The value they placed on Miss Fs 
property was for the valuers to decide  as they are the experts in their field. Skipton said the 
valuation was done for mortgage purposes  to assist them when they were approving the 
mortgage. Skipton had offered to assist with the appeals process. They forwarded details of 
Miss Fs complaint to be looked at by the valuers.
Miss F brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said our service can only look at what 
Skipton did  as they fall within our remit. The valuer was independent to Skipton and we 
cant look at their actions. Skipton instructed the valuations to enable them to approve Miss 
Fs mortgage. Skipton had made the appeals process available and this had been 
considered by the valuer. He said Skipton had acted fairly.
Miss F asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss F says the valuation of her property must be wrong because similar properties nearby 
are worth a lot more than the final valuation given to Skipton. She says shes lost out by the 
value of her property being put at £250,000. 
Our service looks at complaints about financial services firms  including Skipton. We cannot 
look into complaints about the valuers as they dont fall within the jurisdiction of this service. 
In this case, Skipton instructed the valuers to undertake the standard valuation  and that 
was for the purposes of approving Miss Fs mortgage. Skiptons responsibility here was to 
appoint a suitably qualified surveyor. And as the one they appointed was a member of RICS, 
Im satisfied they did so. 
The responsibility for the valuation figure, and any concerns about the valuers conduct is 
nothing to do with Skipton. The only other role that Skipton had was to enable Miss Fs 
appeal to be lodged  which they did. I can see that the appeal wasnt accepted by the 
valuers  but I cant comment on that, as it is a matter for the valuers to deal with.
I can see that Skipton carried out a desktop valuation which came out at £230,000. And 
when Miss F said she wasnt happy with that  Skipton instructed a standard valuation, using 
the valuers. This showed a valuation of £250,000. This figure was used when Skipton 
approved Miss Fs mortgage for £186,394  so Miss F did get the mortgage she wanted. Im 
satisfied Skipton acted fairly in this regard.
Skipton also paid for the standard valuation which cost £286  so that was reasonable on 
the part of Skipton.
It's important to note that the valuation of £250,000 was produced for mortgage purposes  it 
was carried out so that Skipton could approve the further advance to Miss F. It wasnt a 
valuation for marketing purposes, or to be used for any other reason. So, for example, if 
Miss F was to put her property on the market for sale, it would likely be at a different figure. 
Miss F shouldnt necessarily compare it to the value of other properties that she may have 
seen nearby. 
And so  as Skipton arranged for the standard valuation, and paid for it, and Miss F got the 
mortgage she wanted, I cannot see how shes lost out as a result.
Skipton said to Miss F that her complaint should be sent to the valuers  and they did 
forward it for them to respond to. This was the right thing to say and do. 
I can see that Miss F feels strongly about what happened and so will be disappointed by my 
decision. But Im not going to ask Skipton to do anymore here.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman