DRN-3054141
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc approved her for a loan which she feels was 
unaffordable for her at that time.  
What happened
Mrs H applied for a loan with Santander in November 2018. The loan was for approximately 
£18,500 over four years with repayments of approximately £525 per month. Mrs Hs 
application was approved, and the loan funds were provided to her.  
In early 2021, Mrs H raised a complaint with Santander because she felt that the loan hadnt 
been affordable for her at that time and shouldnt have been provided to her. Santander 
looked at Mrs Hs complaint. They noted that theyd conducted checks into Mrs Hs financial 
position at the time that shed taken out the loan, and they felt that there as nothing that had 
resulted from these checks that should have given them cause to suspect that the loan Mrs 
H was applying for wouldnt be affordable for her. Because of this, Santander didnt uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that the information that 
Santander had assessed demonstrated that there had been a foreseeable risk that Mrs H 
might struggle to meet the repayments required by the loan, and so they recommended that 
this complaint be upheld in Mrs Hs favour on that basis.
Santander didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, and so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before approving a 
customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of credit available to a 
customer on an existing line of credit, the business would undertake reasonable and 
proportionate borrower focussed checks to ensure that any credit being offered to a 
customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Santander say that they did that here. They took details of Mrs H income and expenditure 
and also assessed information about Mrs H provided by a credit reference agency. And 
Santander contend that there was nothing resulting from this information which should have 
given them any cause to suspect that the loan might not be affordable for Mrs H at that time.
Santander have confirmed that they conducted their own assessment of Mrs Hs expenditure 
based on all the information they had available to them which resulted in their using a 
monthly expenditure amount of £703 for Mrs H in their assessment. This figure of £703 
consists of three elements: Mrs Hs accommodation costs, living costs, and the costs of Mrs 
Hs existing credit commitments. 
Santander then calculated that Mrs Hs total monthly expenditure with the loan would be the 
£703 in addition to the proposed loan repayments of £528, giving a total monthly expenditure 
of £1,231. This was in contrast to Mrs Hs declared monthly income of £1,286, and thus the 
loan was deemed as being affordable for Mrs H by Santander as Mrs H was left with a 
disposable income after all of her outgoings, including the loan repayment, of £55 per month.
I have a number of concerns with Santanders calculations here, including that Im not 
convinced that its fair or reasonable to have approved Mrs H for a loan where the 
repayments were roughly 90% of Mrs Hs disposable income at that time and which only left 
Mrs H with remaining disposable income of £55 per month  a modest amount from which 
Mrs H would have struggled to put aside and save any income per month or deal with any 
unexpected financial issues.
Im also concerned that the £703 that Santander assessed Mrs Hs expenditures to be was 
composed of estimated amounts for Mrs Hs accommodation costs and expenditure costs. 
This, in combination with the small amount of monthly disposable income that Mrs H was 
being left with, means that if Santanders estimates were inaccurate, as was possible, then 
there was a significant chance that Mrs H might not in actual fact be able to afford the 
monthly repayments required by the loan and that the loan would be unaffordable for her.
Santander have stated that their assessment of the affordability of the loan for Mrs H was an 
automated process which confirmed that the provision of the loan was within their own risk 
tolerance, and that if it had been deemed that the affordability of the loan was marginal for 
Mrs H then the application would have been forwarded to a staff member for a manual 
assessment. 
But Santanders responsibility here was to ensure that the loan repayments would be 
affordable for Mrs H  which is separate and different to assessing whether the loan met 
their own risk criteria  and I dont feel that Santander did that here. 
I also struggle to understand how Santander wouldnt consider a loan that leaves a person 
with only £55 of disposable income a month based on estimated expenditure as not being 
marginally affordable such that a personally conducted affordability assessment wasnt 
required or conducted by them at that time.
In short, Santanders actions here appear to have been more in consideration of their own 
lending criteria rather than ensuring that Mrs H could afford the loan that she was applying 
for. And I feel that it should have been evident to Santander from the information that they 
had available to them and which they used when assessing whether Mrs H could afford the 
loan  including the small amount of disposable income that Mrs H would be left with on a 
monthly basis if she was granted the loan  that there was a real and significant possibility 
that Mrs H might not be able to meet the requirements of the loan for the full term and also 
that she would likely struggle to catch up on the repayments if she fell behind.
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander provided this loan responsibly to Mrs H 
and that it should have been the case that Santander shouldnt have approved Mrs Hs loan 
application given the information that they assessed. And I will be upholding this complaint 
accordingly.
Mrs H has had the benefit of the loan funds, and so its fair that Mrs H should have to repay 
the capital balance of the loan. But I dont feel that Mrs H should have to pay any interest or 
charges that may have accrued on this loan, and I dont feel that her credit file should incur any negative impact as a result of the loan being approved and her subsequently being 
unable to meet the repayments.
  
Putting things right
Santander must reimburse to Mrs Hs loan account all interest, fees and charges, accrued or 
incurred on the loan from the point of inception.
If this results in the loan account have a credit balance in Mrs Hs favour, Santander must 
pay this balance to Mrs H along with 8% interest calculated to the date of repayment.
If the reimbursements result in Mrs H still having a balance to pay on the loan, Santander 
must contact Mrs H and arrange an interest free repayment plan based on Mrs Hs income 
and expenditure at that time. 
Santander must also remove all adverse reporting relating to this account from Mrs Hs 
credit file.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman