DRN-3935074
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has 
dealt with a claim they made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In January 2014, Mr and Mrs R entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system 
(the system) from a supplier. They paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement 
from Shawbrook. 
Mr and Mrs R wrote to Shawbrook in July 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of 
s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The 
creditor (Shawbrook) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim explained that they had been told the system would be self-funding 
and they had bought it on this basis. Having spoken to their CMC they dont think it is, so the 
supplier misrepresented the system to them. 
Shawbrook said that Mr and Mrs R had made their claim too late, so it had no liability.
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mr and Mrs R raised a complaint and referred the 
matter to this Service. One of our adjudicators reviewed things but concluded that 
Shawbrook had not acted unfairly by rejecting Mr and Mrs Rs s.75 claim. 
In summary, our adjudicator said that Mr and Mrs Rs claim against the supplier of the 
system was made outside of the timescales set out in the Limitation Act 1980. As 
Shawbrook (as the credit provider) is liable to the same extent as the supplier, our 
adjudicator agreed it had acted reasonably when saying the like claim against it was made 
too late also. 
The CMC disagreed on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf. The CMC said that Mr and Mrs R didnt know 
they had cause to complain until after they spoke to the CMC, and their claim was made 
shortly after this. The CMC said that s.14 of the Limitation Act provided more time to claim in 
these circumstances, so the claim was made in time. 
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change her mind, and so the CMC asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Shawbrook has treated Mr and Mrs R fairly in its 
response to their s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when 
reaching my decision, including the law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. In this decision Ill refer those that I consider to be most central to 
my conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Shawbrook, and it 
can be held responsible for a purchase Mr and Mrs R made using their credit card. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So Shawbrook must have treated Mr and Mrs R fairly when it declined their s.75 claim. And 
as the reason Shawbrook gave for declining Mr and Mrs Rs claim was that it was made 
outside of the relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr and Mrs Rs rights to claim against Shawbrook under 
s.75 are on the same basis of those they could make a claim against the supplier, I consider 
the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs R says the benefits of the solar panel and heating system were the 
inducement that made them make the purchase. But their s.75 claim is largely that those 
benefits were misrepresented and so they entered a contract which wasnt the value for 
money they expected. Mr and Mrs R says were it not for the misrepresentation about the 
potential benefits, then they wouldnt have entered the contract to purchase the system at 
all. 
So, Mr and Mrs Rs financial loss occurred when they contracted to pay for the system using 
the loan in January 2014. 
Mr and Mrs R raised their claim with Shawbrook in July 2022, which is more than six years 
from when the damage occurred, and their cause of action accrued. Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr and Mrs Rs claim against Shawbrook is 
under s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Shawbrook step into the shoes 
of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr and Mrs Rs claim as Ive already explained they 
raised their complaint with Shawbrook over six years from when the contract was entered, 
and damage suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mr and Mrs 
R knew, or ought to have known, that they had a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier.
Mr and Mrs R say they didnt know until they spoke to the CMC. But Im satisfied that they 
ought to have known about a year after installation. By that time, they wouldve had Feed-In 
Tariff  (FIT) statements and electricity bills covering one year  so wouldve known or had 
the means to work out their first-year income and savings from the system and compare this 
to what they had been told by the supplier  which gave her an estimate including income 
and savings each yar for 20 years. So, this does not extend the time they had to make a 
claim. So, I think the claim was made too late. And Shawbrook did not act unreasonably 
when responding to the claim. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Shawbrook has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr and Mrs Rs s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide 
whether or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Shawbrook) has expired under 
the Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both 
parties, Im satisfied Shawbrook has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr and Mrs R was unable to make a claim within time, 
and so I cannot fairly ask Shawbrook to do anything else now. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs R. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Shawbrook Bank 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman