DRN-2580228
The complaint
Mr O complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Secure Trust 
Bank Plc trading as Moneyway wasnt of satisfactory quality and he hasnt been properly 
compensated for payments he made whilst the car was being repaired.
What happened
Mr O entered into a finance agreement for the purchase of a used car on 9 August 2018. 
The car cost £7,500 and at the time of purchase had covered 85,000 miles. In January 2019 
the car went into the garage for repairs as it was producing smoke. Eventually it transpired 
that the car had been sold to Mr O without the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) and in June 
2019 Moneyway allowed Mr O to reject the vehicle. It said that there was no refund due to 
Mr O for the time the car was in the garage because he had covered 8,340 miles before the 
car failed and at 25ppm this was more than he had paid under the agreement. Mr O wasnt 
happy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and agreed with Moneyway that looking at the 
miles travelled in the car before it went into the garage it was fair for Moneyway to deduct 
this money from any refund for fair use.
Mr O didnt agree and said that he should be entitled to some compensation for the 6 
months of inconvenience of being without a car he had been paying for. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
On 18 December 2020 I issued a provisional decision setting out why I was minded to 
uphold Mr Os complaint. Mr O has accepted my provisional findings. Moneyway has 
confirmed receipt of my decision but hasnt provided any further comments. In the 
circumstances I havent seen anything that would persuade me to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to go into the history of how the car came to be rejected. Moneyway has 
unwound the finance agreement and Mr O no longer has the car.
The complaint is that Moneyway has kept all of the money Mr O paid towards the agreement 
even though he was without the use of the car for 6 months. Mr O has said that he doesnt
want all the repayments back, but he does want the repayments from January 2019 to June 
2019 to cover the period that he was without the car.
I think this is fair and I disagree with the investigator that Mr O should pay 25ppm for the 
miles he travelled before the car failed. I think this because Mr O took out a hire purchase 
agreement with no mileage cap. At the end of the agreement he would own the car provided 
he had made all the monthly repayments. So, I think that the monthly repayments were not 
just for the use of the car, but were also payments towards an asset that Mr O would 
eventually own. He was entitled to use the car to drive as many miles as he needed to. I 
think the payments he made whilst he was using the car can be considered fair usage and 
so shouldnt be refunded.
Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, he wasnt able to use the car from January 
2019 until the agreement was unwound in June 2019, yet Mr O continued to pay for a car he 
couldnt use. This had a significant impact on him and he was without a car that he was 
paying for. I think that Moneyway should refund these repayments and pay Mr O £150 for 
the inconvenience this undoubtedly caused.
I dont think that the miles Mr O travelled before the car failed should have any relation to the 
amount that Moneyway need to refund him.  At the point of failure, the car was unusable, 
and Mr O was getting nothing in return for his monthly repayments. He had to make 
alternative arrangements to travel and the fact that the car was unusable caused him trouble 
and upset in dealing with the proposed repairs over 6 months. I think that Moneyway should 
pay him £150 to reflect this as well as refunding the repayments made between January and 
July 2019. 
Putting things right
Moneyway should refund Mr O all repayments made between January and June 2019 and a 
further £150 to reflect the inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Secure Trust Bank Plc  trading as 
Moneyway should put things right by paying Mr O the amounts set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman