DRN-1602224
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way Auxillis Limited dealt with her claim following an incident 
involving her car. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs Ms car was involved in an incident in a supermarket car park. Mrs M 
says another car hit her car while she was reversing it. Auxillis were instructed by Mrs Ms 
insurer to arrange for repairs to be carried out, and to provide Mrs M with a hire car while this 
work was being completed. 
Mrs M says she told Auxillis that there was a security guard that had seen the incident on 
CCTV, and the security guard would support her version of events. Mrs M says Auxillis 
instructed her not to go to the police as they would handle the investigation of her claim.
On 2nd September Auxillis contacted the supermarket asking for CCTV of the car park area. 
The supermarket advised they would need details of where specifically the incident had 
happened, as their CCTV didnt cover the whole car park. Auxillis contacted Mrs M for this 
information. Mrs M replied on the same day saying Its near child parking and the security 
guard knows about it I spoke with her yesterday incase was time limit on this. 
On 6 September, the supermarket advised they have checked CCTV and camera doesnt 
cover the area. 
On 13 November Mrs Ms insurer contacted Auxillis. Mrs Ms insurer said theyd been 
contacted by the third party insurer (TPI). It was recorded that the TPI have written to [Mrs 
Ms insurer] offering 50/50  asked if we had CCTV advised they got back to us to advise 
the camera didnt cover where incident happened. 
Mrs M contacted Auxillis to complain about the claim being settled on a 50/50 basis, and 
Auxillis lack of investigation of the claim. Mrs M was unhappy that the security guard had not 
been contacted. Mrs M was also unhappy that Auxillis had told her not to contact the police 
about the incident. She said if shed been told sooner about CCTV not being available, she 
couldve involved the police to get this evidence. 
Auxillis responded to Mrs Ms complaint on 11 January 2019. They explained that the 
supermarket had told them that their car park did not cover the area Mrs M had said the 
incident took place in. Mrs M was also told that the police wouldve referred the matter of 
liability back to Mrs Ms insurer to deal with. 
Mrs M was unhappy with this response, and brought her complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation. 
The investigator found that Auxillis had acted reasonably in their handling of the claim. The 
investigator also explained that the decision on how to settle the claim was made by Mrs Ms 
insurer, nor Auxillis. So we couldnt hold Auxillis responsible for, or ask them to change, the 
way the claim had been settled, and recorded. 
Mrs M rejected these findings saying Auxillis waited three months to tell her that there was 
no CCTV footage available, and if shed been told sooner she couldve involved the police. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings and outcome on this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs M but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M says Auxillis told her not to contact the police, as Auxillis would deal with the claim. I 
havent seen any evidence to indicate that Mrs M was told this. But even if she had been, 
Auxillis were correct in explaining that the police would not usually get involved with liability 
disputes. Even if the police had been contacted sooner, or shortly after the incident had 
happened, I think its more likely than not that they wouldve referred Mrs M back to her 
insurance provider to deal with the claim, and determine liability. So I dont think the 
information provided (or not provided), made any difference to the claim overall. 
Mrs M says that she provided Auxillis with details of the security guard that had seen the 
incident on CCTV. In her complaint form to this service, Mrs M has explained security guard
she said she can look at camera and tell me but I cant view it . Only police and insurance
company can . She viewed cctv when I was there and said what she could see was me out 
my space ready to go forward then the other car came out and hit me. 
Although Mrs M feels strongly that the security guards testimony wouldve supported her 
version of events, I think Auxillis acted reasonably by checking firstly with the supermarket 
whether a copy of the CCTV could be provided. This evidence wasnt available. So even if 
the security guard had provided a testimony, this wouldve been in direct conflict with what 
the supermarket had explained. So I dont think it wouldve carried as much weight as Mrs M 
believes- especially in determining the decision on liability. 
Mrs M feels Auxillis is responsible for settling, and recording the claim on a 50/50 basis. The 
TPI contacted Mrs Ms insurer, and offered to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. Mrs Ms 
insurer asked Auxillis if CCTV was available from the incident, and Auxillis correctly informed 
them that it wasnt. It is usual practice for an insurer to decide on liability, and I havent seen 
any evidence to indicate that that wasnt the case here. So I cant hold Auxillis responsible 
for the way Mrs Ms claim has been settled, and recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman