DRN-4006978
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs T say that esure Insurance Limited didnt pay them enough for their written-off 
car when they made a claim on their motor insurance policy.
What happened
esures final offer to Mr and Mrs T was £2,696, but it made a deduction of £496 from that 
sum for pre-existing damage to the car. Mr and Mrs T said esures starting point was too low 
and that the deduction was excessive, given that the car was 12 years old. esure said the 
bumper needed repainting and that a rear door needed replacing. Mr and Mrs T said the  
paintwork just needed touching up and the dent in the door could be removed, which should 
cost around £120. They also provided adverts for two cars they thought were comparable to 
their car and said a more realistic valuation for it would be between £2,800 to £3,200. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. She thought esure had acted 
reasonably. She said we think its fair to rely on the valuations quoted in the national trade 
guides (which esure had done) rather than on adverts. Mr and Mrs T repeated that the 
deduction made by esure was too high.  As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it was reasonable for esure to take an average of four national trade guides to 
determine the likely market value of Mr and Mrs Ts car. As the figures set out in the guides 
are based on extensive research of likely selling prices, we think relying on them is generally 
the fairest and most reliable way to establish a cars likely market value. esure could 
reasonably have discounted the valuation given in one guide, as it was higher than the other 
three. Had it done so, the settlement sum would have been slightly lower. 
We dont think adverts are generally reliable, as asking prices are subject to negotiation  
and the sums asked for what appear to be similar vehicles often vary considerably. I think 
that Mr and Mrs T tried to be fair in discounting the sales prices shown in the adverts by 20% 
in order to arrive at a realistic price for the cars. But that assumes that the original prices 
were only inflated by that sum - and that the other cars were truly comparable to theirs. 
Had esure made no deduction to the sum it started off with, the offer wouldnt have fallen 
much short of the range of realistic valuations Mr and Mrs T proposed. But we think its 
reasonable for an insurer to deduct a sum for pre-existing damage of around half the amount 
it thinks it would cost to repair it. Thats because a settlement offer reflects the value of a car 
before an accident  and a cars value is affected if theres damage to it. 
On older cars like Mr and Mrs Ts vehicle we dont think its fair to deduct a sum for normal 
wear and tear, as minor dents and scratches are unlikely to affect the value of a 12-year-old 
vehicle. But esure has provided a copy of the engineers report, which includes images of the 
accident damage and the pre-existing damage. Although scratches are only shown on one 
part of the rear bumper, they appear to be long / deep, so I think they amount to more than 
minor wear and tear. And I think the dent to the rear door looks like major impact damage. 
In my opinion, it was reasonable for the engineer to recommend that the deduction for pre-
existing damage should be made and for esure to reduce its offer accordingly. I know Mr T 
and Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision, but as I think esure offered them a  
reasonable settlement sum for their car, I cant uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman