DRN-3672353
The complaint
This complaint is about outstanding arrears on a mortgage Mr and Mrs R hold with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out a two-year fixed rate mortgage with NatWest in January 2019. 
Around one year later, Mr and Mrs R started falling behind on their contractual monthly 
payments (CMPs). They say their income was affected by the coronavirus, Covid-19 
pandemic (the pandemic), so they requested a deferral on CMPs in March 2020.
NatWest granted deferrals from March 2020 to May 2020 and from June 2020 to 
August 2020. Mr and Mrs R continued having problems meeting their CMPs after this. 
Mr and Mrs R offered to make part payments in November 2020, but confirmed they were 
still not able to meet their full CMPs. NatWest said Mr and Mrs R would need to complete an 
Income and Expenditure so their situation could be assessed fully. And in February 2021, 
Mr and Mrs R began conversations with NatWest about setting up an arrangement to repay 
the arrears over a 24-month period, but nothing was agreed at this point.
Mr and Mrs Rs fixed rate came to an end in April 2021, so they applied for a variation to 
their mortgage  a new fixed rate for two years. In June 2021, their application was agreed, 
and they started paying the new CMP amounts. Up until then, Mr and Mrs R had made part 
payments on some occasions, but most CMPs had been missed in full since the deferrals.
In July 2021, Mrs Rs NatWest current account was frozen. Following enquiries, Mr and 
Mrs R learnt it had been frozen because they had not made any attempt to clear their 
arrears. Mr and Mrs R say they thought the arrears were included in the total outstanding 
balance on their new fixed rate agreement and so they felt there shouldnt be any additional 
sum to pay other than the CMP amount set out in the agreement they signed. 
Mr and Mrs R complain they dont know where the arrears figure has come from, that theyve 
been given conflicting information and that NatWest has refused to explain it. They say the 
whole situation has caused them significant stress and inconvenience, a loss of dignity when 
they were asked to complete an Income and Expenditure in July 2021 and concern about 
their credit files.
NatWest looked into Mr and Mrs Rs concerns and explained that the arrears are separate 
from their outstanding mortgage balance. They asked Mr and Mrs R to repay the arrears in 
full or complete an Income and Expenditure so a suitable repayment plan could be 
assessed. Following this, the agreement that had been discussed previously (to repay the 
arrears over 24-months) was arranged in July 2021 and a letter was sent to Mr and Mrs R 
confirming this. The agreement was later broken, and a new agreement was put in place in 
October 2021.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Rs concerns but didnt find that NatWest had done 
anything wrong. As Mr and Mrs R remain unhappy, the complaint was referred to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld and Ill explain 
why.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill only comment on what I think is relevant 
to this complaint. I also wont use exact figures as I dont think this will be necessary to 
explain my findings and this level of detail could reduce Mr and Mrs Rs anonymity when the 
decision is published.
Its expected that consumers are treated fairly under the Mortgage and Home Finance 
Conduct of Business (MCOB). And in addition to this, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) gave additional advice to businesses about how to treat customers who struggled to 
meet their CMPs during the pandemic.
Looking into what happened, Mr and Mrs R were granted six payment deferrals in line with 
the recommendations made by the FCA. And while Mr and Mrs R continued to miss or only 
make part payments to their CMPs for several months after this, NatWest still allowed 
Mr and Mrs R to make a variation to their mortgage in June 2021 when they didnt have to.
Mr and Mrs R had conversations with NatWest prior to their new fixed rate agreement, 
during which they were made aware they had an arrears balance in addition to their 
outstanding mortgage balance. NatWest offered Mr and Mrs R a separate agreement to 
make additional payments over a 24-month period to clear the arrears in February 2021. 
And Mr and Mrs R would have been aware that they had not gone ahead with this offer  so 
the arrears balance would not have reduced. 
The new mortgage agreement was to change the interest rate on their existing mortgage and 
nothing else. So, the outstanding balance on their new agreement did not have an additional 
sum added to it to account for the arrears. Considering everything, I dont think Mr and 
Mrs R had any reason to believe the arrears had been built into their new agreement.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs R would have been well aware they had missed several payments 
and that they would need to pay the arrears back. The arrears were immediately due as they 
should have already been paid by Mr and Mrs R to maintain their previous mortgage 
agreement. NatWest could have requested the sum in full, but instead, it offered to set up a 
separate arrangement to clear the arrears and it was necessary for Mr and Mrs R to 
complete an Income and Expenditure in order for NatWest to agree to any arrangement. 
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs R may have felt a loss of dignity in having to complete an 
Income and Expenditure at this time, I dont think it was avoidable. Mr and Mrs R would 
more likely than not have been expected to complete an Income and Expenditure 
assessment with any lender in the same circumstances. And NatWest was attempting to 
help them reduce their arrears and prevent any further action which could have been far 
more distressing, such as having their home repossessed.
Mr and Mrs R had been asked to complete an Income and Expenditures previously and one 
had already been completed in February 2021 when the original repayment plan was 
offered. But this was five months prior and Mr and Mrs R had not made any contribution to 
their arrears since that was done, so I dont think having to complete another Income and 
Expenditure would have been unusual or unexpected in the circumstances. Mr and Mrs R eventually agreed to a 24-month repayment plan in order for Mrs R to have 
access to her current account. I understand a separate complaint has been raised about 
Mrs Rs current account being frozen, so I will not comment on that further. But I think the 
arrangement NatWest offered was fair.
I understand Mr and Mrs R are unsure if the total amount of arrears NatWest says they owe 
is correct. I can appreciate why they feel this way as NatWest did find a payment that had 
not been applied to their mortgage account previously. But NatWest corrected Mr and 
Mrs Rs outstanding balance by backdating the payment to when it should have been 
applied to the account. This is in line with what the service would expect a business to do in 
the circumstances. 
Id also point out that the error occurred because Mr and Mrs R were making manual 
payments which can be more difficult to keep track of. Given the payments Mr and Mrs R 
were making were irregular and infrequent  I think Mr and Mrs R had some responsibility for 
checking their payments were being reflected on their account. The account has now been 
adjusted to reflect the missing sum, so I dont think NatWest needs to do anything else.
If Mr and Mrs R still have concerns about whether the outstanding amounts are correct, they 
may wish to seek independent advice to have this reviewed by an appropriate third party. I 
say this because its not our role, at this service, to provide an in-depth analysis of a 
consumers mortgage account. MCOB sets out what a business has to provide to its 
customers, and NatWest has done that here. Although Mr and Mrs R want NatWest to 
provide more information this doesnt mean it has to. And as the ombudsman service is not 
the regulator, I also cant insist a business provides an explanation for a gesture of goodwill 
offer. I would point out though that its not unusual for a business to make an adhoc offer to 
try to resolve a complaint without accepting liability.
Mr and Mrs R have raised concerns about the arrears impacting their credit files. From what 
Ive seen, NatWest didnt report any arrears when Mr and Mrs R were deferring their 
payments  in line with the FCAs recommendations. But NatWest has a duty to report 
accurate information to credit reference agencies. As Mr and Mrs R have not paid the 
amount they owe, and have broken two repayment agreements, NatWest is entitled to report 
the arrears and in the circumstances, I cant tell it not to.  
In summary, while I empathize with Mr and Mrs Rs situation, they still owe NatWest for the 
arrears they accrued over the period they were unable to meet their CMPs. I think NatWest 
has attempted to work with them to resolve the issue and considering everything, I think 
NatWest has treated Mr and Mrs R fairly. Mr and Mrs R should contact NatWest to make 
new arrangements if they want to avoid any further problems. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman