DRN-4473799
The complaint
Mr C complains to The Independent Family Funeral Directors Limited (TIFFDL) about the 
terms of his funeral plan. He says the plan was mis-sold, as the terms werent made clear.
What happened
To summarise, In December 2017, Mr C met with a funeral planning consultant and bought a 
funeral plan. The plan was sold by a company Ill call R. The plan  funded by a whole-of-life 
insurance policy, to which Mr C made monthly payments by direct debit  provided for a 
guaranteed sum of £3999, plus any additional growth, which would be paid to R for the 
provision of funeral services for Mr C at the time of need. The terms of the plan required Mr 
C to keep up his monthly payments in order to maintain the plan. There was no payment 
term specified. In other words, to maintain the plan, Mr C would need to make a monthly 
payment for the remainder of his life.  
At some stage, TIFFDL took over responsibility for administering Mr Cs plan and delivering 
his chosen requirements at the time of need. Its not clear to me exactly when this 
happened, although I note that R went into liquidation in June 2022.
In June 2023, Mr C contacted TIFFDL to check when his final payment would be, as he 
believed his plan would be fully paid up in December, by which time he wouldve made 
monthly payments totalling £3999. TIFFDL told him he would need to keep paying until he 
was 90. This came as a great shock to Mr C, who subsequently complained. 
TIFFDL sent Mr C a final response letter saying the plan terms explained the payment 
arrangements and that Mr C had chosen to pay by fixed monthly payments when he bought 
the plan. It said it couldnt find any term that supported Mr Cs belief that he would only be 
paying £3999 for his plan. It also explained that his options were to continue making 
payments or to cancel his plan. And it told Mr C that, in line with the terms, if he cancelled 
thered be no further obligation on TIFFDL to fulfil his funeral plan and no money would be 
refunded.
Mr C was unhappy about this decision and came to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. She explained that 
TIFFDL wasnt responsible for the sale of the plan  sold by R  but thought that TIFFDL 
was entitled to rely on the original cancellation terms. And she said TIFFDL had sent Mr C a 
funeral plan statement in August 2023 which clarified that payments would need to be kept 
up until age 90.  
Mr C disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr 
C and Im sorry about that. Ill explain my reasons, focusing on the key points and evidence I 
consider material to my decision.
R was a company that specialised in providing retirement services, including selling funeral 
plans. At the time, there was no requirement for a company selling pre-paid funeral plans to 
be regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, as there is today. So although TIFFDL 
subsequently took over the administration of Mr Cs plan, its not responsible for the sale. 
This means I cant consider any complaint points about the sale of the plan. Im aware 
TIFFDL made some comments about the sale in its response to Mr C. And our investigator 
had some communication with Mr C about the information received at the time and what the 
plan terms say. But the sale was not subject to regulation, so Im afraid its not something I 
can look at. I appreciate this is an unsatisfactory situation for Mr C that will likely leave him 
with a number of unanswered questions, but I cant comment any further on this aspect of Mr 
Cs complaint.
Mr C now faces a difficult decision. To maintain his plan he must continue making monthly 
payments. If he chooses to cancel he will lose all of the payments hes made so far   
approximately £4000  the amount he thought hed be paying for his plan. I appreciate this is 
also an unsatisfactory situation for Mr C. Ive looked at the original plan terms and its clear 
that no refund will be made in the event of cancellation. 
If the plan is paid by standard monthly payments and is cancelled, then no money 
will be refunded. Once your plan is cancelled we will have no further obligation to 
fulfil your plan.
Ive also noted that TIFFDL has chosen to limit the payment term to for life or until the 
anniversary of the plan start date following your 90th birthday. This offers some potential 
benefit to Mr C, in that his payments would cease should he choose to continue with his plan 
and live into his 90s. But I acknowledge that may seem small comfort in the wider 
circumstances. In short, these are the terms under which TIFFDL is administering Mr Cs 
plan. I think those terms are clear, so I cant say its unfair for TIFFDL to hold Mr C to them. I 
therefore dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jo ChilversOmbudsman