DRN-4277132
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund the money he says he lost to an 
investment scam. 
Mr K is represented by a third party, but for ease of reading Ill refer to all the submissions as 
having come from him alone.
What happened
From December 2017 to December 2019, Mr K invested over £100,000 with a company Ill 
refer to as O. He made the payments from his Barclays current account and he received 
just under £11,000 back from them during the course of his investment. Towards the end of 
2019, Mr K tried to withdraw his profits and was given excuses as to why he couldnt until 
ultimately he felt hed been scammed. 
In 2022, Mr K reported the alleged scam to Barclays. In November 2022, Barclays issued its 
final response explaining that it wouldnt be offering Mr K a refund on the grounds O was 
regulated during the period of his investment. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr K referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly. 
She found that at the time of Mr Ks payments, O was regulated and even if Barclays had 
intervened, it wouldnt have made a difference. 
Mr K asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said there was an international 
regulator warning published about O in 2013 and this should have prompted additional 
checks from Barclays. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
 
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment trading scam is in fact 
a scam. Some cases simply involve high-risk investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses.  
Certain high-risk investment traders may have promoted these products using sales 
methods that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who 
lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not 
necessarily meet the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud; i.e. dishonestly making 
a false representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a 
gain for himself, or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud 
Act 2006).  
In simpler terms, some merchants may have used sales and promotional methods that could 
be seen to be unfair by consumers considering the losses theyve incurred  but this does 
not always amount to fraud. 
When considering this for Mr Ks case, Ive paid particular attention to the official 
organisations that publish warnings about merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. Ive 
searched the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And the FCA (as the UK regulator) also has its own warning list, which is in place 
to share alerts and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being 
fraudulent or unauthorised.   
Upon checking both of these, Ive noted that there were warnings published about O in 2013. 
Ive read those warnings and they advise that O was not registered in a particular country, 
they dont indicate that they were operating as a scam and these were published several 
years prior to Mr Ks investment. 
What I have noted about O was that at the time of Mr Ks payments, they were regulated by 
the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission (CySEC) with passporting rights through 
the FCA - which meant they could offer services to UK customers. I dont think the warnings 
published several years prior to Mr Ks investment outweighs Os regulation status at the 
time of Mr Ks investment. It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with all the various 
requirements of becoming regulated.
I agree with Mr K and our investigator that some of the payments he made, particularly in 
2018 were unusual when considering the normal operation of his account. But even if 
Barclays were to have intervened, I dont think it would have reasonably suspected a fraud 
or scam. Once it clarified who Mr K was investing with and that O was regulated with 
passporting rights to operate in the UK, I dont think Barclays would have had the need to 
probe any further. Barclays were under no obligation to provide Mr K with financial advice, 
nor was it under any obligation to prevent Mr K from investing in high risk products. So, I 
agree with our investigator that an intervention from Barclays would have likely made no 
difference here. 
Ive noted the FCA removed Os passporting rights on 1 June 2020 (after Mr K made all of 
his payments). And the FCA reported concerning conduct on the part of O. But Im not 
persuaded Barclays could have reasonably foreseen the action the FCA would take prior to 
it publishing an advisory notice and press release about O.
As the payments were made via debit card, the only course of action available to Barclays to 
recover Mr Ks payments would have been to process chargeback claims. But Visa has a 
maximum time limit of 540 days for dispute claims to be made. By the time Mr K contacted 
Barclays in 2022, he was outside of Visas timescales. And therefore, I dont think Barclays 
could have done anything to recover Mr Ks payments.  
I appreciate that Mr K has lost a substantial sum of money. But I dont think Barclays can be 
held primarily responsible for these losses. Mr K may wish to explore any recourse he may 
have against O with CySEC, or the Cyprus Financial Ombudsman if hes not previously 
explored these options. My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Ks losses, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman