DRN-3889106
The complaint
Ms H complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) unfairly reduced the value of her horses under 
the policy she has with the insurer.
What happened
Ms H initially insured her horses with SOL in 2020. When the policy came up for renewal 
around August 2021, SOL reduced the value the horses were insured for from £120,000 and 
£135,000 to £75,000 each. Following an incident, both horses sadly passed away and Ms H 
asked SOL to honour the original values when paying the claim. SOL didnt agree, so Ms H 
raised a complaint. 
In its response, SOL said it issued the amended valuations as part of the renewal 
information it sent to Ms H and pointed to the fact that it provided her with the opportunity to 
present a justification of value if she wished to increase the valuations. SOL says it didnt 
receive this and adds that it has acted in line with its terms when offering to settle the claim 
based on the revised valuations. SOL recognised it had caused a delay to the claim and 
offered Ms H £3,500 compensation. 
Remaining unhappy, Ms H asked this service to get involved. She says SOL notified her of 
the updated valuations only a day before the renewal was due, so she had little time to 
consider her options. She says shes provided industry reports to justify what she believes 
the values of her horses to have been at the time and is unhappy that SOL hasnt agreed to 
honour the original valuations. Ms H adds that SOL caused her stress because it didnt 
agree to do so.
Our investigator decided that SOL had acted fairly and agreed that the documents Ms H 
provided didnt satisfy SOLs request for a justification of value. Ms H didnt accept this 
outcome  she says SOL didnt give her a chance to provide further evidence to support her 
request to reinstate the original values of her horses. Because Ms H didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final say on the matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that SOL has acted fairly. I know Ms H will be disappointed to 
hear this, so Ill explain why.
SOL says it lowered the valuations of the horses under the policy after having considered 
the competition records, increasing ages, lack of breeding potential and the overall lack of 
support for higher valuations. I dont think that SOL acted unfairly by decreasing the 
valuations at renewal. It seems to me that SOL had taken a variety of factors into account 
when deciding the valuations and, without anything to challenge the values it had reached, I 
cant fairly say that it acted unreasonably.
SOL says it didnt agree with the valuations even in the first year of the policy and says it 
wouldve disputed the valuations in the event of a claim during that period. So I think the 
insurer acted reasonably by allowing the policy to continue for the first year despite its 
opinion on the valuations of the horses.
Ms H seems to have been given an opportunity to provide a justification of value for both 
horses. I can see she provided copies of the purchase receipts from around 2014, grading 
information and a letter from a horse trainer. SOL wasnt satisfied with this information as it 
didnt provide a justification regarding the monetary values of the horses.
The terms of the policy point to the fair market value as being the price at which the horses 
wouldve sold for before the incident leading to the claim. Given the significant difference in 
SOLs valuation and Ms Hs opinion on the values of her horses, I think it was reasonable 
that SOL gave her the opportunity to evidence why she thinks the valuations should be 
higher. However, having considered the information Ms H did provide, I cant see that these 
provide a justification of the monetary value of the horses, nor do these documents set out 
what the fair market value of the horses wouldve been around the time. So I think its fair 
that SOL didnt accept that the information Ms H provided was enough to increase the 
valuations.  
Ms H says she had a limited opportunity to consider the revised valuations because SOL 
sent her the renewal details only a day before the renewal was due. SOL says the short 
notice was due to an administrative error and points out that Ms H still had enough time 
before the claim incident to consider her options.
I think it was unreasonable that SOL provided Ms H with its renewal information only a day 
before the policy was due to renew. However, I cant fairly conclude that the impact of this 
error was to a degree that would lead me to instruct SOL to do something to put things right. 
I say this because I can see that Ms H didnt confirm she accepted the policy renewal until 
around two weeks later and SOL agreed to accept the premiums for this policy shortly after. 
So, although this happened a short period after the renewal date had passed, Im satisfied 
that Ms H had a reasonable amount of time to consider her options before accepting the 
revised valuations.
SOL already accepts that it caused an unreasonable delay to Ms Hs claim, so I wont 
comment on the delay further. Im pleased that SOL recognised that this delay warrants 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Ms H. SOL offered Ms H £3,500 
compensation, which is well above any figure I wouldve considered awarding had SOL not 
offered anything at all. So Im satisfied SOL has acted reasonably to put things right since 
the delay that it caused.
In summary, I think that SOL acted fairly when it revised the valuations of Ms Hs horses. 
The insurer has given Ms H a reasonable opportunity to justify her view that the valuations 
should be higher. But I dont agree that the information Ms H submitted provides justification 
of what she thinks the monetary values of the horses were. In my opinion, the compensation 
SOL has offered fairly makes up for the impact of the delay it caused. So I wont be asking 
SOL to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Society of Lloyds has acted fairly, so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman