DRN-2477948
The complaint
Mrs J complains about St Andrews Insurance Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) for its 
decision to reject part of her claim for water damage following a storm. She wants Halifax to 
pay her full claim, including for repairs to her roof. 
What happened
On 18 August 2020, Mrs J contacted Halifax to make a claim under her home insurance. 
She explained that leaks had appeared in her bathroom, conservatory and water was 
coming in through the lean-to. She reported that these had manifested since the heavy rain 
on 16 August 2020. 
Halifax arranged for a surveyor to attend Mrs Js property on 20 August 2020. He attended 
and left when the door was not answered immediately. After contact from Mrs J he returned 
to the property and carried out an assessment. 
The surveyor took photographs and moisture readings in the three locations. He then 
prepared a report for Halifax. 
Mrs J spoke with Halifax a few days later and Halifax advised that it would be declining the 
claim as the weather for that area had not constituted a storm on the relevant date. Halifax 
also reported that the surveyor had not considered that there was evidence of storm damage 
and that the damage was caused by wear and tear. 
Mrs J was not happy with this and made a complaint. 
While considering the complaint, Halifax checked further into the weather conditions and 
established that there had been more rainfall than it had been aware of at the location of Mrs 
Js home, and that the rain did constitute a storm. 
Halifax confirmed to Mrs J that it would pay for the damage to the bathroom, as it was 
satisfied that Mrs J had not known that the roof was failing before the storm occurred, but 
that it would not pay for the repairs to the roof as it considered these to be damage resulting 
from wear and tear, rather than storm damage. 
Mrs J obtained a quote for repair works to the roof, quoting around £2300 for the repairs. 
The roofing contractor indicated that repairs were necessary to the pointing on the chimney, 
and that the valley between the roof levels needed to be re-lined and leaded, and that tiles 
around the valley would be replaced. He indicated that he believed the damage was caused 
by storm but did not give further detail on what he considered the damage was.
Halifax responded to Mrs Js complaint. It partially upheld the complaint on the basis that she 
had been provided with confusing information about the weather conditions on the relevant 
date. Halifax offered her £100 compensation for this.
Halifax maintained its decision to decline the claim for damage to the roof. It considered that 
there was no evidence of a one-off storm related event.
Mrs J contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that the available evidence supported Halifaxs decision to decline the roof claims 
as having occurred due to wear and tear. The investigator agreed that there had been some 
poor service from Halifax in respect of it initially telling Mrs J that there were no storm 
conditions on the date and then reversing this. He did, however, feel that Halifaxs offer of 
compensation was appropriate to reflect this. 
Mrs J did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I can understand Mrs Js frustration and upset at the decision that has been reached. 
She has explained that there were no signs of leaks before the storm and to most people it 
would seem logical that if water damage appears after a storm then it has likely been caused 
by the storm. I can also understand how upsetting it would be to suddenly face unexpected 
repair costs when you expected the damage to be covered. 
I do, however, have to consider the evidence available against the cover provided by the 
policy. 
As my colleague explained, the policy Mrs J had provided cover for damage caused by the 
storm where the storm is the entire or main cause of the damage. It excludes gradually 
operating causes and the effects of wear and tear. Insurance is not a maintenance contract 
and requires evidence of a qualifying event before it provides cover. 
Storm damage would usually leave clear evidence, like impact damage or broken or missing 
tiles, which then allow rain water to penetrate a building.  
In this case, the surveyor who inspected the property could not find evidence of such 
damage, and considered that the source of the main roof leak, being the valley between the 
roof surfaces, was that the materials in the valley were naturally deteriorating over time to 
the point of failure. Additionally he considered that the flash banding around the 
conservatory was failing due to its age. 
Mrs Js contractor has indicated that he considers the damage to be caused by a storm, but 
he does not provide further detail about what damage he observed and how this would have 
been caused by a storm. 
Consequently, this does not address the evidence of Halifaxs surveyor, and so on the basis 
of the evidence I think that Halifax has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. 
I think Halifax is correct to pay for the damage sustained to the bathroom on the basis that 
Mrs J was not aware of any gradually operating damage here, and it was right to offer some 
compensation for the confusing messages originally given about the weather conditions, but 
on the basis of the evidence available, I think that is the extent of Halifaxs responsibility. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mrs Js complaint. I realise that this will be disappointing for Mrs J, but I hope that it clearly explains why I have 
reached this view. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint and do not ask St Andrews 
Insurance Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman