DRN-4115840
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her account without reason. She would like 
to know the reason. And compensation for the way she was treated.
I am aware that there is a complaint about Mrs Ms credit card, but I will only be dealing with 
the closure of the current account in this decision.
What happened
Mrs M had a current account with HSBC for over 40 years.
Following a review by HSBC, on 4 January 2022 she received a notice to close letter from 
HSBC saying her account would close on 9 March 2022.
Mrs M was unhappy that she hadnt been given a reason for the closure. Mrs M complained 
to HSBC.
Mrs M made numerous calls to HSBC where she was given misinformation and her calls 
were cut off or transferred to the wrong department.
Mrs M has said that dealing with the bank on the phone has caused her a great deal of 
stress. She told us the stress had also aggravated Mr Ms health conditions.
HSBC said they hadnt done anything wrong when they closed her account. They also said 
that their staff couldnt give Mrs M the reason for the closure even if she called their 
customer service team.
Unhappy with the response she complained to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought HSBC had done nothing 
wrong when they closed the account. And HSBC had done nothing wrong by not giving a 
reason for the closure. She acknowledged that Mrs M had spent a long time chasing HSBC 
to establish why the account was closed. But she thought that as HSBC had given the 
correct notice, they hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs M said she was unhappy with the view. The complaint was about the way in which 
HSBC closed the account and the lack of reasons given for it. Mrs M was frustrated that the 
closure letter didnt explain the reasons why the account was closed even though it said it 
would. Mrs M said she was concerned that the reason for the closure was because there 
had been fraud on the address or account.
Following the view, I contacted HSBC requesting further comments on the service issues. I 
note that Mrs M had raised the service issues with HSBC as part of her complaint regarding 
the closure of the accounts.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I said: 
Firstly, I would like to reassure both parties that while I may not comment on everything 
raised, I have considered all the arguments that Mrs M has put forward as well as the 
information provided by HSBC.
The issues raised in relation to the credit card closure will be dealt with in a separate 
decision.
Account review and closure
Financial businesses, like HSBC, are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These mean they have to monitor their customers accounts and may need to 
review an account at any time. While that is happening, they may need to block or restrict 
any payments. I am satisfied HSBC were complying with these obligations when they 
reviewed Mrs Ms account.
Following the review HSBC decided to close Mrs Ms account.
As the adjudicator explained its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
HSBC wrote to Mrs M on 4 January 2022 and let her know it was closing her account on 
9 March 2022 giving her 60 days notice. So, Im satisfied HSBC closed the accounts in line 
with the account terms. And gave Mrs M adequate time to open another bank account.
Ive considered whether HSBC acted fairly when it closed Mrs Ms account. Mrs M has 
pointed out that she has been a loyal customer of HSBC for many years and that the closure 
of her account has caused her a lot of problems and stress. Im sorry that whats happened 
has caused Mrs M trouble and upset but as Ive said HSBC closed the account in line with 
the account terms. And having looked at the evidence provided Im satisfied that HSBC 
havent done anything wrong when they decided to close the account. It follows that I wont 
be awarding compensation for the closure although I understand the stress that Mrs M was 
put under as a result of the closure.
Reasons
Mrs M has expressed her frustration at not being told the reason for the account closure. 
She is also upset that the closure letter referred to a reason when the reason wasnt stated.
Mrs M has said she wants to know the reasons why HSBC closed her account. Whilst Mrs M 
mayve expected to be given the reasons for the account closure. HSBC isnt required to 
give her a specific reason. HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers an account 
review and closure. And I can understand Mrs Ms frustration that she hasnt been provided 
a detailed explanation but been referred to the terms and conditions. But as the adjudicator 
has explained, HSBC is under no obligation to provide this information to her, as much as 
shed like to know. So, I cant say HSBC have done anything wrong by not giving Mrs M this 
information.
I know Mrs M has been frustrated by the content of the closure letter she has received from 
HSBC. I can understand the letter may have been confusing to her. However, I can see that 
HSBC have said that they have reviewed the account and decided to close the account in 
line with the account terms. HSBC arent obliged to give Mrs M a more specific reason, so I dont think theyve done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mrs M is concerned that the reason for the closure may have been because 
of fraud on the address or the account. I can see this would be concerning as it would mean 
her personal details had been compromised. I would therefore like to reassure Mrs M that 
Ive seen no evidence of her personal details being compromised and I hope that provides 
her with some comfort.
Service issues
I appreciate Mrs M has told us about the service issues that she experienced when seeking 
clarification from HSBC and pursuing the complaint.
I understand that Mrs M made a number of calls to the customer service team of HSBC. It is 
fair to say the calls didnt go as expected and Mrs M says she received bad customer 
service. I think HSBC could have been clearer in their phone communications with Mrs M 
and I know that Mrs M was transferred to the wrong department on a few occasions. She 
was also told she needed to speak to a department that wasnt customer facing.
I appreciate that HSBC were within their right to close Mrs Ms account, but I would have 
expected them to provide a better service on the phone and to be clearer in their message to 
Mrs M regarding them not being able to provide a reason. This could have prevented the 
numerous calls Mrs M made. Because of this I think HSBC should pay Mrs M £50 for the 
inconvenience they caused her.
Responses to my provisional decision 
HSBC have not responded to my provisional decision. Mrs M has agreed with my provisional 
findings but would like me to reconsider the amount of compensation I was minded to award 
because of inflation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs M for her comments about my provisional decision. Having considered them I 
havent seen any grounds to increase the compensation.
I have awarded £50 compensation in respect of the service issues on this account. I am 
aware that there are other complaints borne out of the same circumstances and I have dealt 
with those in separate decisions. 
I consider the award of £50 in respect of this complaint to be reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
To put things right HSBC should pay Mrs M £50 for the distress caused during the calls to 
the customer service team.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay Mrs M £50 for her material distress.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman