DRN-2084053
The complaint
Mr L complained about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled things when a 
third-party claimed against his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L had a car accident which he felt was the other drivers (the third partys) fault. But 
Admiral wanted to settle the third-partys claim on a 50/50 split liability basis. Mr L felt they 
werent interested in defending him or helping him claim for his own cars minor damage 
because it was an older car. He said hed suffered other financial loss too because Admiral 
had reduced his no claims bonus(NCB) to zero because of the third-party claim and this 
increased his premium with his new insurer. 
The investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
Admiral had acted in line with their policy conditions and hadnt been unreasonable. As Mr L 
didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator explained to Mr L, we dont decide who is at fault for causing an accident, 
as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to 
investigate whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their policys 
terms and conditions when they made their decision as regards who was responsible. 
I have looked at the General Conditions of Mr Ls policy which say that Admiral are entitled 
to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on Mr Ls behalf and take legal action over 
any claim in his name. This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows 
Admiral to settle any claim against Mr Ls policy as they see fit, whether Mr L agrees with it 
or not. Insurers are entitled to make a commercial decision about whether its reasonable for 
them to contest a claim or better for them to settle it without going to court. 
Mr L said that the accident was completely the other drivers fault as he was driving 
recklessly and too fast and hit Mr Ls car in the rear. But I see that before Admiral offered the 
third-partys insurer the split liability settlement they allowed Mr L to fully explain his account 
of events and reviewed the evidence . Admiral had tried to contact a witness for a statement, 
but it wasnt provided, and since there was no police report or independent witnesses or 
objective evidence such as CCTV footage, it was essentially one persons word against 
another. Given that there were conflicting accounts of events, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Admiral to think that they couldnt be confident of winning in court. The 
policy entitles them to make a commercial decision about this, so I dont think that they were 
being unreasonable to offer the split liability settlement.  
However the third partys insurer didnt accept split liability and started court proceedings 
against Mr L . Admiral instructed solicitors to defend the case and they asked him for help 
with it. He didnt want to help because he felt Admiral hadnt helped him. Theyd said that if 
he claimed for his cars minor damage, they would likely declare it to be uneconomical to 
repair because it was an old car. But Mr L said that his car was in excellent condition. He 
thought it was unfair that Admiral wouldnt take its true value into account.
But Admiral are entitled under Mr Ls policy to consider a cars market value before deciding 
if theyll repair it. And generally older cars are of lower market value, regardless of their 
condition. So I dont think that Admiral acted unreasonably. In any event Admirals records 
show that after discussion with Mr L he decided not to make a claim. So I dont think that 
Admiral have done anything wrong here.
Mr L was also unhappy that Admiral said that making a claim could adversely affect any 
claim he might make for his car under a scrappage scheme. He felt Admiral were closing off 
all his options. But I think this could also be construed as Admiral giving Mr L information 
about his options and their potential consequences, and so I dont think that was unfair of 
them. 
I think that Admiral were doing what they should by defending Mr L against the third-partys 
court case. He says he doesnt want to help Admiral with that case. But clearly what he does 
there could impact any decision the court might make on liability, or on settlement terms, and 
could be in his interests. This is relevant to the NCB situation too. Mr L is unhappy that 
Admiral reduced his NCB by two years. But Ive looked at his policy and it says that If you 
(or any driver named on your policy) make a claim or a claim is made against you, and you 
do not have protected or guaranteed No Claims Bonus, your No Claims Bonus will be 
reduced. The policy goes on to say that the NCB wont be reduced if the claim isnt his fault 
and Admiral are able to recover all their costs. So again Admiral have followed the policy 
and I dont think that Admiral have done anything wrong in reducing Mr Ls NCB. And what a 
new insurer charges is not in Admirals control. 
However if, in the court case, Admiral were able to establish full liability on the third party, Mr 
L could ask Admiral to reinstate his NCB and give him a letter for his new insurer explaining 
that and ask them to recalculate his premiums accordingly.
I do see that Mr L feels very strongly that the accident wasnt his fault, and so feels frustrated 
by Admirals handling of the matter. But I cant say that they Admiral acted fairly and 
reasonably, and so I dont think that they have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Rosslyn Scott
Ombudsman
