DRN-3133440
The complaint
Mrs M complains that, in 2015 and again in 2016, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her packaged 
bank accounts (PBAs). 
What happened
Mrs M opened a fee-free Classic account in November 2012.This changed to a Club Lloyds 
account in March 2015, which had a monthly fee of £5. This wasnt a packaged bank 
account in that the fee entitled you mainly just to certain banking benefits  also this fee was 
waived if you paid in more than a certain amount, and I can see this happened in Mrs Ms 
case. 
In June 2015 the account was changed to a Silver account with a monthly fee of £9.95. This 
came with a package of benefits including European travel insurance, AA breakdown cover 
(roadside assistance and accident management), mobile phone insurance, Sentinel card 
protection, and an overdraft that was interest and fee free, up to £50 (if approved).
In August 2016 the account was changed to a Platinum account. This cost £17 each month 
and came with a package of benefits including worldwide travel insurance (with family travel 
cover or winter sports for two people), AA breakdown cover (roadside assistance, Home 
Start, Relay and accident management) and mobile phone insurance, and an overdraft that 
was interest and fee free,  up to £50 (if approved).  From August 2016 until May 2018 the 
account also had the Club Lloyds feature, which cost £5 per month (unless the customer 
credited more than £1,500 per month): this gave banking benefits such as lower mortgage 
rates, £100 interest free overdraft, interest on positive balances; and a choice of a money-off 
lifestyle benefit. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mrs M didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has said she was coerced into taking a packaged bank account when she went 
into her local branch; and also that she doesnt remember agreeing to take out the 
account, and wasnt told it was optional. 
A problem I have is that I wasnt there during any conversations, and theres no record of 
what was said, so I cant know whether Lloyds said things that were wrong or unfair. And 
Mrs M actually made the application for the account online (as she did the later changes) 
 and from what we know of that process, the account was set out as optional. And Mrs M 
had, up until starting her PBA, had a free account  so shed have understood that these 
were available. 
Mrs M has said that she didnt need the benefits that came with the bank account.  
However, it would have been for Mrs M to decide if those benefits were useful to her and 
worth the cost. It doesnt look as though Lloyds was telling her it had assessed her 
individual needs and was recommending these benefits as a good fit. Instead it gave 
information during the online process so that Mrs M could make a choice  and from what 
we know of the online process, I think there was enough essential information, and its 
unlikely more information would have changed what Mrs M decided. 
Mrs M has said the travel insurance was of no use to her because she had a significant 
medical condition. Its true this might have caused a problem if shed had the medical 
condition when she first took a PBA in 2015. But by 2017, when shes said she was 
diagnosed with the condition, the terms of the insurance policy had changed so that shed 
have been covered for that condition. 
Overall, there isnt enough evidence for me to fairly uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman