DRN-3955262
The complaint
Ms L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly blocked and closed her account. Ms L says 
this made things very difficult for her and she wants HSBC to pay her compensation. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. As such, Ill provide 
only an overview of the most essential facts here.
Ms L had an account with HSBC which she used to pay bills and receive her wages. Ms L 
also regularly received money from her mother into the account.
In April 2021, Ms Ls mother made a payment of £100 into Ms Ls account. Following this, 
HSBC were notified by another bank that the payment was fraudulent. HSBC blocked Ms Ls 
account and wrote to her on 7 May 2021 asking her to visit a branch and tell HSBC what she 
knew about the £100 payment and to confirm her identity.
On 12 May 2021 , Ms L went into a bank branch. She told staff that the money was from her 
mother, that she regularly received money from her to help out financially and that she could 
provide her mothers bank statement to show where the money had originated if the bank 
needed to see evidence to support her explanation. But HSBC didnt take Ms L up on this 
offer. HSBC completed its review of Ms Ls account on 17 May 2021.
On 20 May 2021 HSBC let Ms L know that she could access her salary and any benefits in 
her account by attending a branch. On 28 May 2021, Ms L went into a branch and withdrew 
£1,500 from her account. Following this on 4 July 2021, HSBC decided to close Ms Ls 
account and wrote to her to let her know her account would be closed and sent Ms L a 
cheque for her closing balance on 13 July 2021. 
Ms L telephoned HSBC and went into branch to try and find out what was happening with 
her account and the reasons behind the banks actions. Miss L explained that she hadnt 
done anything wrong and that not having access to her account had meant she had trouble 
paying bills and her mortgage. HSBC didnt provide Ms L with much information and said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms of the account and relevant 
regulations when it blocked and closed her account. 
Ms L wasnt happy with the banks response and brought her complaint to this service. Ms L 
explained that the restrictions on her account had made it very difficult to manage as she 
used the account for day to day living expenses and says it ruined her sons birthday as she 
wasnt able to buy things, including a birthday cake for him. She said that she had to borrow 
money from her partner and relatives to get by. And that the whole experience had been 
very upsetting and stressful. So, she said HSBC should pay her compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by the bank blocking and closing her account. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. After looking at everything he wrote to 
HSBC. He told HSBC that it shouldnt have closed Ms Ls account as there wasnt any 
evidence Ms L had knowingly received fraudulent funds into her account. He provided the 
bank with Ms Ls mothers bank statement which showed she regularly sent money to Ms Ls 
account. Overall, the investigator said HSBC shouldve carried out a better investigation and 
completed its review quicker. 
HSBC accepted what the investigator said. It agreed that it shouldnt have closed Ms Ls 
account and should have looked at the information Ms L was willing to provide. It offered to 
reopen Ms Ls account. HSBC also offered Ms L £200 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by the time taken to complete its review and closing the account.
The investigator said HSBCs offer was fair. In reaching this conclusion he said that whilst 
Ms Ls account had been blocked, she had been able to access some of the money in her 
account by going into a branch. 
Ms L disagreed. She said that she had manged to open another account, but the 
compensation offered didnt adequately reflect the amount of upset shed been caused. She 
said that she felt HSBC had discriminated against her when it closed her account. And 
asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. So, the complaint has come to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Ms Ls account also permit HSBC to block and review an account. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HSBC to block Ms Ls account. HSBC has explained that this was its standard procedure, 
and I accept that it was. Thats in line with what most banks would do in the same situation  
a payment had been made into Ms L s account which didnt appear to have been for her. 
And it enabled HSBC to consider how best to react to the information it had received from 
the sending bank about the payment and what Ms L said about it. So, I cant say HSBC did 
anything wrong when it initially blocked Ms Ls account.
However, while HSBC are entitled to carry out a review, wed expect them to do so in a 
timely manner and without undue delay. Id also expect the bank to look at any evidence 
offered or provided by a customer in order to progress its review. HSBC blocked Ms Ls 
account on 7 May 2021 and completed it on 17 May 2021. However, following this, Ms Ls  
account remained blocked until the bank closed the account on 7 July 2021. 
I note too that HSBC didnt ask Ms L to provide any supporting information about the 
payment into her account.  Despite her offering to do so when she first visited a branch. 
HSBC also havent been able to provide this service with an explanation of what (if anything) 
it was doing between 17 May 2021 and 7 July 2021. And why it took until 13 July 2021 to 
release Ms Ls funds back to her. This meant Ms L had to wait longer for the bank to release 
her money. HSBC has accepted it should have unblocked Ms Ls accounts sooner than it did and asked 
Ms L for the information she offered to provide. Its also accepted that had it obtained and 
reviewed the information it wouldnt have closed Ms Ls account. Having looked at whats 
happened here I agree with the investigator that HSBC didnt treat Ms L fairly when it closed 
her account. 
When a business makes a mistake that affects a customer, it would be expected that the 
business puts their customer back in the position that they would be in had the error not 
occurred. Ive considered what Ms L has said about how HSBCs actions impacted her. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Ive no doubt this was a worrying and upsetting time for 
Ms L. And I agree some compensation is appropriate for this. I say this because Ms L had to 
spend time going into branch to access her funds, wait months for her balance to be 
released, and had to go to the trouble of opening a new bank account. So, I can appreciate 
this wouldve been  inconvenient and upsetting for her  especially because at the time it 
was her sons birthday. And its only right that HSBC recognises this. However, Im satisfied 
that £200 along with 8% interest for loss of use of the money in her account is a fair amount 
of compensation and proportionate to the trouble and upset Ms L was caused. So, while 
Ms L may disagree with me, Im satisfied that the compensation offered recognises the 
impact HSBCs actions had in the overall circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand that Ms L wants HSBC to explain the reason it applied the block to her account 
in the first place. And I can see that Ms L asked HSBC to explain itself on several occasions. 
But HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And its 
under no obligation to tell Ms L the reasons behind the account review and block, as much 
as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Ms L this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so. 
Ms L has also said that she feels HSBC discriminated against her when they closed her 
account. While I can appreciate this is her perspective, it is not my role to decide whether 
discrimination has taken place  only the courts have the power to decide this. I have, 
however, considered the relevant law in relation to what Ms L has said when deciding what I 
think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this has meant considering the provisions of 
The Equality Act 2010 (The Act). And after looking at all the evidence, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that this was the case. So, I havent found that HSBC decided to close the 
account for an improper reason.
In summary, its clearly caused Ms L trouble and upset when she wasnt able to use her 
account properly and HSBC closed it. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying time for 
her. So, I realise she will be disappointed by my decision. But having looked at all the 
evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent found grounds to increase the level 
of compensation. Im satisfied that £200 compensation along with 8% simple interest on Ms 
Ls balance is fair and reasonable. So, I wont be telling HSBC to do anything else to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right HSBC Bank PLC must do the following:
pay Ms L £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the time taken for 
HSBC to complete its review of their accounts, release her funds and wrongly closing 
her account
calculate interest at 8% simple per year on the balance of Ms Ls account. HSBC should calculate this from 11 May 2021 up to the date they refunded Ms Ls balance.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC UK Bank Plc to withhold income tax from 
the above-mentioned interest. HSBC should give Ms L a certificate showing how 
much is taken off if Ms L asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman