DRN-3871181
The complaint
Ms H complains that PRAC Financial Limited (PRAC) has defaulted an account in her name 
for a second time. 
Ms H wants PRAC to remove the default from her credit file.
What happened
In April 2022 PRAC bought an account in Ms Hs name that was in default but has since 
been settled with a discounted settlement payment. The account was originally held by a 
business I will refer to as M. Ms H is unhappy that PRAC is reporting a default on her credit 
file while M is also reporting a default.
The investigator didnt recommend that Ms Hs complaint be upheld. His investigation 
outcome explained that it was reasonable for PRAC to report the default once it became the 
new owner of the account. The investigator said the credit file entry for M would show the 
account was sold in April 2022. And that PRACs reporting began when it bought the 
account, indicating that both entries relate to the same account. The investigator also 
explained that the default would be reported for six years even though Ms H had settled the 
account.
Ms H wasnt happy with the investigation outcome. She says a mortgage advisor told her 
recently that the two entries would be counted as two separate defaults. Ms H thinks it 
should be made clearer that she has only one default not two. 
The investigator responded by saying the account could only be defaulted once. And that it 
should be clear to potential lenders that the matching default dates mean the two entries 
relate to the same account. Overall, the investigator didnt think PRAC had acted 
unreasonably so didnt recommend that it take further action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
I can appreciate Ms Hs frustration with the way in which the account and the default have 
been reported but my decision is solely concerned with the actions of PRAC, not M or the 
credit reference agencies. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that M assigned the account to PRAC after it had 
already been defaulted. PRAC as the new owner of the account, has a duty to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies. I can see that when PRAC bought the 
account, it wrote to Ms H explaining this to her. PRAC also told Ms H that M would mark the 
debt as sold. 
I think the reporting of the default by PRAC is correct. Although Ms H has given this service 
screenshots of her credit files which appear to show separate defaults in the name of M and 
PRAC, this doesnt change the fact that PRAC hasnt defaulted her account for a second 
time. Instead, as new owner of the account, PRAC is reporting the original default with the 
same account number and default date. So, I dont find PRAC is at fault in terms of reporting 
the default. I also wouldnt expect PRAC to try and make changes to any entries that M is 
responsible for.
Ms H has given this service a copy of an email from the third party she used to access her 
credit information. It says both defaults have been recorded twice and suggests that if M 
wont remove the default, Ms H could raise a dispute with the credit reference agency. But I 
dont think this changes the fact that PRAC is reporting the account and default correctly. 
And PRAC isnt responsible for how any potential lenders might view Ms Hs credit file.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms H but for all the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont uphold 
her complaint against PRAC so Im not asking it to take any action. I leave it with Ms H to 
decide whether to go back to M and/or the credit reference agencies if she remains 
concerned about the reporting of the default.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman