DRN-2703789
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Moneybarn No. 1 Limited and its agent sold him a conditional 
sale agreement. 
What happened
Mr M approached a credit broker (who Ill call C) in order to get finance to acquire a car. In 
early March 2020, Mr M acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn which was brokered by C. The cash price of the car was £10,900. Mr M paid a 
£600 deposit and was required to make 59 payments of around £400 per month, the total 
repayable under the agreement was around £24,500. 
Soon after taking possession of the car Mr M raised a complaint with C saying he was a 
vulnerable adult and that he thought the agreement had been mis-sold to him. He later 
raised a similar complaint with Moneybarn. In summary, he said:
C had unfairly inflated the price of the car. He says he discovered that the true cash 
price of the car was £9,500 because C had left details inside the car of what it had 
been on sale for at a previous dealership. 
The finance agreement wasnt properly explained to him as he didnt realise how high 
the interest rate was or that there were hidden fees and charges.
Hed told C he had a budget of £10,000 but the total repayable under the finance was 
more than double this. He said he felt pressured into taking out the agreement by C. 
He was told the first payment wouldnt be due until 30 days after the agreement but 
was taken by direct debit 24 days later. 
Moneybarn didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the finance paperwork Mr M was 
presented with was clear concerning the cash price, the total repayable, the interest and any 
associated fees or charges. It said he was given the opportunity to review the information to 
ensure he was happy with it before signing. Lastly, it said that Mr M had opted to set his 
direct debit date to the thirtieth day of the month which is why it collected sooner, by default 
the direct debit date would have been 30 days after the agreement was signed. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn had 
given Mr M clear and sufficient information about the conditional sale agreement and the 
price of the car. She hadnt seen anything to demonstrate Mr M was likely pressured into 
entering into the agreement. She said she could see Moneybarn had tried to discuss Mr Ms 
payment difficulties with him and didnt think there was anything further they needed to do.  
Mr M didnt agree. He said Moneybarn had been fined by the regulator for the poor way it 
had treated customers, and this demonstrated it was likely they treated him poorly too. 
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has also raised concerns about the affordability of the conditional sale agreement, 
specifically Moneybarns awareness of his personal and financial circumstances and that it 
wasnt disclosed to him whether commission was paid to C. These additional issues wont be 
addressed in this decision as they are being dealt with separately under a different 
complaint. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of holding Moneybarn 
responsible for any antecedent negotiations between Mr M and C, who acted as 
Moneybarns agent when brokering the conditional sale agreement. What this means is that 
anything C said or did when arranging the finance agreement, I can consider against 
Moneybarn.
Mr M says that additional fees and charges were added onto the agreement without his 
knowledge. It seems that what hes referring to is that C purchased the car for around 
£9,500 and then sold it to Moneybarn for £10,900 in order for it to be provided to him under 
the conditional sale agreement. Mr M therefore says that there were in excess of £1,000 in 
hidden charges added to the agreement. However, I dont agree. 
Mr M agreed to enter into the conditional sale agreement with the understanding that the 
cash price of the car was £10,900. This is made clear in the invoice and finance documents. 
While it does appear C bought the car for cheaper than this, that doesnt mean theyve acted 
unfairly or misled Mr M. Instead, £10,900 was simply the price C were willing to sell the car 
for. If Mr M wasnt happy with the proposed price of £10,900, he could have negotiated or 
decided not to go ahead with the deal.
What Mr M appears to be unhappy with is that he feels hes paid an inflated price for the car 
compared to what he might have paid elsewhere. That is of course possible, but that doesnt 
mean C or Moneybarn have acted unreasonably. C was entitled to charge any price it 
wanted to, and Mr M was free to either accept or refuse that price. 
It doesnt appear the cash price stated on the finance agreement was for a greater amount 
than was agreed, so I dont agree that any hidden charges or fees were added. Mr M 
appears to just be unhappy hes paid more than he might have done elsewhere, which isnt 
something I can reasonably direct Moneybarn to compensate for. 
Mr M has also said that C didnt explain the finance paperwork to him. Ive considered the 
relevant rules around pre-contract disclosures set out in CONC 4 of the regulators 
handbook. These say that a firm is required to provide adequate explanations of the key 
parts of the conditional sale agreement. It says that these explanations can be given either 
orally or in writing.
Ive reviewed the paperwork Mr M was provided with and I think this clearly sets out the 
costs of the agreement, including the cash price of the car, the deposit, interest rate, total 
repayable, and the monthly repayments and any other fees. It also provides an explanation 
about the ownership of the car, what happens in the event of non-payment (such as the 
possibility of repossession) as well as other relevant information about the agreement. 
Overall, Im therefore satisfied that Mr M was provided with an adequate explanation in 
writing prior to entering into the agreement. There was no requirement for C to provide this 
explanation orally too. Further, it doesnt appear that Mr M asked for one. 
Mr M says he told C that he didnt want to spend more than £10,000 on the car. However, as 
Ive set out above, I think it was made clear to him what the price of the car was and the overall costs of the agreement. Mr M was therefore given sufficient information to decide 
whether or not to proceed with the agreement. Although this is more than he says he initially 
wanted to commit to, I havent seen anything to demonstrate Moneybarn has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably. 
Mr M says he was pressured into entering into the agreement by C, so he had no choice but 
to sign the agreement. Mr M says C told him he wouldnt be able to get finance anywhere 
else and should therefore sign up quickly. 
Ive listened to a call Mr M had with one of our investigators when he described the sales 
process. He says the sale was conducted over the phone and he was initially offered a car 
which was worth over £15,000 but he says he turned this down because he didnt need a car 
that was that expensive. He says the salesperson then offered a number of different cars 
until one was selected. Mr M also told the investigator that he isnt the best at saying no. 
I dont think theres anything within what Mr M has said to make me think he was under 
unfair pressure to enter into the agreement. It seems Mr M wasnt in a face to face sales 
environment and could therefore have simply hung up the phone. Further, he had already 
said no to one particular offer of a more expensive car, so Im not persuaded he was forced 
or pressured to enter into an agreement he didnt want. 
The initial direct debit payment was collected 24 days after the agreement was incepted. 
Mr M says he was told it wouldnt be collected until 30 days after the agreement start date. 
Ive seen that 30 days is the standard timeframe for the payments to be set for and this is 
made clear on the direct debit mandate Mr M would have signed. The mandate says that if 
Mr M wanted a different date for collection, he should specify it on the form.
It appears Mr M wanted his direct debit to collect on the thirtieth of every month. However, 
as 30 April 2020 was too far ahead from the agreement start date it was amended to 
30 March 2020 instead. Its not clear whether this was explained to Mr M at the time, 
however, I cant see that theres been any significant detriment caused as a result. 
I say this because the direct debit payment was still collected and Moneybarn amended the 
payment date to be every 30 days after Mr M raised his concerns. While its possible C or 
Moneybarn made an initial error in not explaining the payment date clearly, I dont think 
Moneybarn needs to do anything further to put things right. 
Lastly, Mr M says hes faced financial difficulty and hasnt been able to afford the monthly 
repayments. I can see Moneybarn gave him a payment holiday and then agreed to extend 
this further. It has told Mr M to get in touch and discuss his circumstances in order to work 
out the best solution for the agreement. Im therefore satisfied that Moneybarn have taken 
proactive steps to try and assist Mr M and I would remind them to continue to treat Mr M 
fairly if he is continuing to struggle financially. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman