DRN-3194541
The complaint
Miss H complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) has turned down her 
claim on her home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Miss H says her butterfly roof was overwhelmed by hail and water following a freak 
hailstorm. She says water leaked from the roof into her bedroom, art room, sitting room and 
kitchen. 
UKI turned down Miss Hs claim. It said although there were hailstones in the area, they 
were no bigger than 10cm, so they wouldnt class the event as one specific incident of storm. 
It said its assessors report showed the damage Miss H was claiming for was due to existing 
maintenance issues with her roof, which the hail highlighted. And it said cover for gradual 
damage and wear and tear was excluded from Miss Hs policy.
Miss H is unhappy with UKIs decision. Her builder says when he went onto the roof
the following day, hailstones had overflowed the valley gutter and completely covered the 
lower slates. He says thats what caused water to come into Miss Hs home. Miss H says 
more recent rainstorms havent overwhelmed the roof. And she also says her next-door- 
neighbour suffered similar damage from the hailstones which his insurers have covered. So 
she doesnt think its fair UKI wont cover her damage.
The investigator who looked at Miss Hs complaint didnt think UKI had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in turning down Miss Hs storm damage claim. She didnt think thered been a 
storm at the time or that the damage was consistent with a storm. She thought the main 
cause was wear and tear to the roof, which Miss Hs policy excluded. Since Miss Hs policy 
didnt include cover for accidental damage, she also didnt think UKI had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in not covering the internal water damage Miss H was claiming for.
Miss H disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to decide her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My role isnt to decide what caused the damage to Miss Hs home for which shes claiming. 
Rather its to decide if UKI acted fairly and reasonably in turning down the claim. And I must 
do this by looking at all of the evidence Ive got.
Miss Hs policy gives her cover for loss or damage caused by a number of events that might 
happen. To make a successful claim, Miss Hs needs to show the damage shes claiming for 
was caused by one of those events. In this case, Miss H is claiming for storm damage. Her 
policy doesnt define what is meant by a storm but, in general, we say it involves violent 
winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
When looking at a claim for storm damage, our approach is to ask three questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all three questions is yes, were likely to uphold the complaint and say the 
claim for storm damage succeeds. If any of the answers is no, were unlikely to uphold the 
complaint for storm damage. In Miss Hs complaint, Ive looked at all three questions.
Was there a storm? 
Miss H says a freak hailstorm overwhelmed her butterfly roof and caused water to leak into 
her home. Shes sent us videos showing hail falling in her garden and water coming through 
a neighbours ceiling. Shes also sent us photos taken by her builder the following day, 
showing an accumulation of frozen hail in the valley gutter on the roof. 
UKI says to accept Miss Hs claim the damage mustve been caused by one specific incident 
of storm. It says although there were hailstones in Miss Hs area on the date she says she 
suffered storm damage, the hailstones were no bigger than 10cm. Having spoken with a 
leading provider of weather reports, UKI said this wouldnt be classed as a storm.
As part of her investigation, our investigator obtained weather reports for the area, which 
show there were hail showers on the day in question. But our investigator thought the wind 
speed on the day and the hailstones werent severe enough to amount to a storm.
Having looked at the photos and videos, I think there may have been a significant weather 
event, possibly a short-lived one, on the day. But, ultimately, I dont need to decide whether 
that event amounted to a storm. Thats because, even if I answer yes to this first question, I 
still dont think Miss Hs claim succeeds, as Ill explain.  
Was the damage consistent with a storm?
UKIs assessor visited Miss Hs home shortly after she made her claim. His report says there 
is no storm damage to the main roof. He says the lead valley in the middle of the butterfly 
roof had failed, having been blocked by a build-up of silt on the bottom of the lead. Although 
there was missing pointing at either end of the roof and a couple of broken slates, the 
assessor says this wouldnt have been caused by hail.
Miss Hs builders report also doesnt identify any damage to the roof from a storm. He says 
the hailstones blocked the gutter, causing water to come into Miss Hs home. He says, when 
he removed the frozen hail, there was some silt but it wouldve flushed out during normal 
rainfall.
Having looked at both reports, and at the photos of the roof taken by UKIs assessor, I dont 
think the damage to the roof that was identified by the assessor is consistent with a storm. 
But its possible that the internal damage Miss H is claiming for is consistent with a storm if, 
as her builder says, the valley was overwhelmed by hail.Since Im not satisfied there is a clear-cut yes or no answer to the second question, Ill 
look at the third one.
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In his report, Miss Hs builder says the hailstones overflowed the valley and penetrated the 
house. His report is quite short  one page long  and is supported by four photos taken on 
the roof, including two showing his foot in the frozen hailstones in the valley gutter. Miss Hs 
builders report doesnt assess any of the internal damage Miss H is claiming for.
UKIs assessors report is more detailed. He says the roof is suffering from wear and tear 
and his report has photos to support his findings. He says theres evidence in the loft of more 
than one leak (again, the report includes photos). Internally, he says the water damage to 
the four rooms for which Miss H is claiming isnt consistent with a one-off event but has been 
caused by rainwater ingress over a period of time  again, there are numerous photos the 
assessor has used to support his findings. In one room, he says paint has started to peel 
from the ceiling and theres mildew in the corner of the room  I dont think youd expect that 
sort of damage to occur from rainwater coming into the home just a couple of days earlier. 
And I think two of the four rooms for which Miss H is claiming damage are on the ground 
floor of her home  so I think water wouldve have had to penetrate a long way in a short 
time to cause the ceiling staining the assessors report shows in his photos.
In addition to her builders report, Miss H and a member of her family have made a number 
of points in support of her claim. These include that the assessor had made up his mind 
there were previous leaks before he went onto the roof, that the roof hadnt leaked in the 
years since they bought the house and hasnt leaked in storms subsequent to the hailstones. 
Also that neighbouring properties suffering similar damage at the time were covered by their 
insurers. 
Looking at all the evidence Ive got, I dont think Miss H has shown the damage shes 
claiming for was mainly caused by a hailstorm. Clearly, her builder and UKIs assessor have 
differing views on what caused the damage. Having looked carefully at both, I find the 
assessors report more persuasive. His findings are more detailed, theyre supported by 
photos and they assess the internal damage (which Miss Hs report doesnt) fairly 
methodically. 
Ive taken into account all the points Miss H and her family have made but, of course, they 
arent experts. So it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to attach as much weight to them 
as I do to the opinions of experts. Theyve also made the point that UKIs assessor isnt an 
independent expert  but neither is their builder. I know Miss H thinks its unfair that her 
neighbours insurers have accepted a claim for damage seemingly caused by the same hail 
event when her insurer hasnt. I cant really say much about that  I dont know all the facts 
and circumstances of her neighbours claim. And, in any case, my role is to decide whether I 
think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably based on all the facts and circumstances in this 
complaint. 
And, all in all, for the reasons Ive given, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in relying 
on its experts report to turn down Miss Hs claim for storm damage. And given that her 
policy didnt include cover for accidental damage, I also think UKI has acted fairly and 
reasonably in not accepting her claim for the internal damage to her home on that basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman