DRN-4008604
The complaint
Ms U complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax closed her account.
What happened
Ms U says Halifax closed her Help to Buy savings account. She says she was told it was 
due to the number of refund requests she made, which she says were justified. Ms U says 
she would like compensation for the closed account and says she cant now open a similar 
account elsewhere.
Halifax says its entitled to close an account by providing two months notice. It says it wrote 
to Ms U on 28 July 2022 telling her the account would close in October 2022 and that she 
could have transferred the money to a similar account within that time.
Ms U brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Halifax was entitled in line with account terms and conditions to close the account by 
providing two months notice.
Ms U doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Ms Us account terms and conditions which she would have 
agreed to when the account was first opened. Those terms and conditions make clear that 
Halifax can close an account by providing two months notice. I can see that Halifax wrote to 
Ms U in July 2022 before closing the account over two months later in October 2022. So, Im 
satisfied Halifax acted in line with those account terms and conditions and was entitled to 
close the account. It follows that I cant fairly order Halifax pay Ms U compensation as she 
would like, in circumstances where Im satisfied it didnt make a mistake or act unfairly.
I have looked at Halifaxs records and think it was entitled to reach the decision it did about 
Ms Us account in these circumstances. I can see that Ms U is aware of what may have 
been the reasons behind the closure and think its up to Halifax to decide on such matters. 
The important point is that Halifax gave Ms U notice of the closure, which would have 
allowed her some two months to make alternative arrangements and open a similar type of 
account elsewhere.
Overall as I find Halifax was entitled to close Ms Us account and provided appropriate 
notice, then I cant fairly order it do anything in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman