DRN-2752522
The complaint
Ms B complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed 
by MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject the vehicle 
or have the cost of repairs refunded.
What happened
Ms B tells us that she acquired the vehicle from a dealer Ill refer to as G in September 
2019. She says she became aware of the vehicle having previously had accident damage 
when it went to a local garage for repairs to issues which had been identified at the time of 
supply. Subsequently, Ms B says she noticed the vehicle didnt appear to be running 
correctly in January 2020. And in June 2020 she says she had to call out a breakdown 
service twice within a couple of days. After the second of these, the vehicle completely 
failed.
Ms B states that the vehicle has now been inspected and serious engine failure has been 
identified. Ms B explains that she had a report prepared by a business Ill refer to as J. And 
that this said the cause of the engine failure was the failure of the oil pump drive belt. And 
that J had reported that this wouldve been in fragile condition at the time of supply.
MotoNovo told us that the vehicle had been independently inspected by a company Ill refer 
to as A. And that A had concluded that the engine failure had been caused by drive on 
damage due to low oil levels. And this wouldnt have been present at the point of supply. It 
said that A had also found that the vehicle has not had its bypass pipe recall carried out 
correctly and a poor repair has been carried out in regard to a three prong T piece being 
fitted into a plastic pipe. But that this wasnt the cause of the engine failure.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld but only in part. He felt 
that MotoNovo should be responsible for arranging for the bypass pipe recall to be carried 
out. But he felt that the engine failure was due to wear and tear issues.
Neither party agreed with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Ms B has experienced problems with the vehicle and I can see this led to some 
difficulties for her in relation to her employment. I also note that shes now had the vehicle 
repaired at significant cost.
Unfortunately, with older used vehicles theres a greater likelihood that things will go wrong.  
And thats a risk the consumer takes when acquiring a vehicle. Whilst its to be hoped that 
any issues will arrive later rather than sooner, and be relatively minor, here it appears this 
vehicle has suffered major engine failure.
Ms Bs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. 
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA states that in order to conform to contract 
goods must be of satisfactory quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined as being 
what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects 
of price, previous use and durability. But it doesnt include issues of which the consumer is 
made aware at the time of supply. 
Here its not in dispute that Ms B acquired this vehicle when it had probably covered around 
85,200 miles. Theres a small discrepancy with the mileage recorded at the time of supply 
and that of an earlier MOT test. But it doesnt impact my decision.
The vehicle was supplied with some faults which included with the parking sensor and 
parking assist feature. It had been agreed that these issues would be repaired later. And this 
was done in October 2019. 
The work was apparently carried out by one of the manufacturers main dealer garages, a 
business Ill call E. This was seemingly done with the consent of G. Ms B has advised that 
she was told that E hadnt been paid for this work to be done. But she also says that E hasnt 
charged her as it apparently felt this should be a matter for G. Its as a result of this 
inspection that Ms B says she became aware of some other accident damage.
Although Ms B referred to feeling the vehicle wasnt running correctly in January 2020, shes 
provided an invoice for a routine service which took place on 24 February 2020. Theres 
nothing to show anything other than the service was carried out. And I infer that as Ms B 
continued to use the vehicle until June the vehicle wasnt showing any obvious signs of 
impending failure.
On 7 June 2020 Ms B called upon a breakdown service, R, which diagnosed a suspected 
faulty oil pressure sensor. The odometer reading was recorded at 88,762 miles. Ms B was 
advised to check the oil pressure regularly and to have the part checked /repaired as soon 
as possible.
On 9 June, R was again called to the vehicle. The oil warning light was reported to be 
intermittently lit. R found the oil level over-filled and arranged for it to be drained. But it 
seems the vehicle failed soon afterwards.
Ive seen two reports prepared after independent inspections were carried out on the vehicle.  
The report by A took place on 30 June 2020. The odometer recording was noted to be 
88,771 miles. As report concluded that the vehicle had been run with low oil or no oil and 
this had led to internal failure. It also noted accident damage and poor repairs. And that a 
bypass pipe recall hadnt been done. Overall it concluded the breakdown wasnt due to 
issues which were present at the point of supply. J saw the vehicle on 20 July 2020. It also noted the odometer reading as 88,771 miles. Js 
report didnt agree with As conclusion about the cause of the breakdown. J stated that the 
most likely cause of the breakdown was a failure of the oil pump drive belt. Js report 
concluded:
The belt would have deteriorated over time resulting in sudden failure. The oil drive belt 
would have been in a fragile condition at the time of purchase which could have failed at any 
point in our clients ownership.
Taking the two inspection reports together with the breakdown reports, I suspect Ms B may 
just have been very unlucky. As it appears the final breakdown occurred almost immediately 
after the vehicle had been seen by R for the second time. Theres always got to be a tipping 
point when the ultimate failure occurs. And it seems probable that Ms Bs misfortune was 
compounded when that occurred within the few miles covered between the two inspections 
by R. Presumably this was before shed had the chance to have the vehicle examined in 
more detail as R had recommended on its first attendance two days earlier.
Theres clearly some difference of opinion between the experts as to the actual cause of the 
breakdown. But this doesnt directly affect my decision. At the time of the breakdown in June 
2020 the vehicle had been with Ms B for about nine months. In accordance with the CRA, for 
MotoNovo to be liable for the cost of repairs it would have to be shown that this was due to 
issues present at the point of supply so as to make the vehicle not conform to contract. And 
neither expert report provides information to support such a conclusion.
The effect of both As report and that of J, is that the ultimate cause of failure wasnt due to 
issues present at the point of supply. Js report suggesting that it was a failure which whilst in 
itself sudden, was the result of gradual deterioration. Whilst A suggested damage had 
occurred due to drive on damage with no oil or low oil.
Ms B has provided me with information to show that shes had the engine replaced. But as 
she was advised there was no point in having the old engine stripped - as it was beyond 
repair - theres no further evidence to determine the actual cause of its failure. Shes also 
had the clutch replaced. But a clutch is a wear and tear item so MotoNovo isnt responsible 
for this.
Consequently, I find that the vehicle most probably failed due to the wear and tear of 
components which had effectively come to the end of their natural lifespan.
Finally, Ill briefly mention the issue of the pipe bypass recall. A reported that at the time of its 
inspection the vehicle hadnt had a pipe bypass recall carried out correctly. Ive not been 
able to confirm this. Ive checked on the relevant government site which records details of 
recalls and the MOT history of vehicles. Currently there are no outstanding recalls listed in 
respect of this vehicle.  And Ive now seen an invoice from January 2021, which appears to 
show that E replaced the bypass hose to which A had referred.
Normally, Id have agreed with our investigator who found it should be for MotoNovo to 
arrange for the recall work to be carried out. Ive considered if the cost of £40.92 should be 
refunded by MotoNovo. But it wouldnt have ordinarily been responsible for the cost of the 
repair itself  simply for making the arrangements. And I cant make an award against the 
vehicle manufacturer which isnt a party to this complaint. 
Ive also seen that earlier MotoNovo had paid £130 towards hire costs of a temporary 
replacement vehicle  which Ms B then found she couldnt obtain. But it allowed Ms B to 
retain the payment towards any additional travel costs. So overall, I think MotoNovo has 
acted fairly.The vehicle has now passed an MOT test on 9 December 2020. And that wouldve 
highlighted any remaining safety issues. As the official website doesnt show a recall is 
outstanding and the December 2020 MOT didnt identify any safety issues theres no need 
for MotoNovo to take any action at this time.
I accept that Ms B is likely to be disappointed with this outcome. And I empathise with her 
about the additional expense shes incurred. But as I said earlier, I think this is most likely 
down to misfortune in terms of the timing when the final failure occurred. I can only express 
the hope that the much lower mileage replacement engine provides Ms B with the reliability 
she requires.
As I find the vehicle failed due to issues related to wear and tear  as opposed to not being 
of satisfactory quality when supplied - Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman