DRN-2039393
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Home Retail Group) 
charged his account with a late payment fee.
What happened
Mr E has a store card with Home Retail Group. He was required to make a minimum 
monthly contractual payment of £40.11 by 18 November 2019. He says he paid this amount 
on 18 November via Faster Payments Service (FPS).  
Home Retail Group subsequently charged a late payment fee to Mr Es account, which he 
complained to them about. In short, he said that he had made the required payment on time.
Home Retail Group investigated Mr Es complaint. They explained that Mr E is sent  
statements each month informing him, amongst other things, when payment is due. So, his 
October statement wouldve made him aware that a payment was due on 18 November. 
Home Retail Group said they didnt receive a payment by this date and that they dont 
support FPS, so payments can take a few working days to credit an account.  
Unhappy with Home Retail Groups decision, Mr E referred his complaint to our service. He 
reiterated that he made payment on 18 November. He also said he didnt receive his 
October statement. 
One of our investigators didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, he thought Home Retail 
Group acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Es account. The investigator also 
listened to a telephone call between Mr E and one of Home Retail Groups advisors, which 
took place in August 2019.  In doing so, the investigator thought Mr E was made aware that 
Home Retail Group doesnt support FPS. Lastly, the investigator thought that even if Mr E 
hadnt received his October statement, he wouldve been aware of how and when to make 
payments, as he had been making them since 2014.  
Mr E didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to consider 
the case. He reiterated his complaint points, adding that he doesnt think its fair that Home 
Retail Group doesnt support FPS.
Another investigator reviewed the complaint before an ombudsman considered the matter. 
He said that Mr E made the minimum payment on 19 November, a day after the payment 
due date. So, he thought it was right for Home Retail Group to charge a late payment fee to 
Mr Es account in accordance with the terms and conditions of it. 
Mr E subsequently provided a bank statement showing that he made the payment on 18 
November. Our investigator however thought the reverse of Mr Es account statements 
made it clear to him that if a payment was being made via a bank, then he should allow five 
working days for the payment to reach their account. Moreover, payment methods and 
timescales were explained to Mr E during his August call with Home Retail Group. Taken 
together, the investigator thought that Mr E shouldve made his payment earlier than 18 
November. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es account states, amongst other things, that they may 
charge an account, £12 if you [the account holder] do not make your minimum monthly 
contractual payment on time.
Its not in dispute that Mr Es minimum monthly contractual payment was due on 
18 November 2019.  What is in dispute however, is whether Mr E made this payment on 
time. Having considered this, Im not persuaded that he did.
Home Retail Group have provided evidence which shows that they received Mr Es payment 
on 19 November  one day after payment was due  which was then posted to his account 
on 22 November. Mr E has provided a bank statement showing that he made payment on 18 
November via FPS. I accept that Mr E made his payment on 18 November, but I dont think 
that means he made the payment on time. 
I say this because Home Retail Group doesnt support FPS, so any payment made on the 
due date would not credit his account in time. This likely explains why Mr Es payment didnt 
reach Home Retail Group on 18 November. 
Mr E has raised concerns about Home Retail Group not supporting FPS.  However, this is a 
commercial decision theyve made and, accordingly, is not something our service would 
normally interfere with. 
The statements Mr E receives highlight a number of ways in which he can make payments 
to his account and the timescales involved.  This includes allowing five days for payment to 
reach an account if payment is made via a bank transfer (which would include a faster 
payment). Mr E was able to send his payment directly through FPS its just Home Retail 
Group have told him that it wont credit his account straight away.   
Ive listened to a telephone call between Mr E and one of Home Retail Groups advisors, 
which took place in August 2019. During this call, the advisor told Mr E, amongst other 
things, that Home Retail Group doesnt support FPS and he should allow five working days 
when making a payment this way. The advisor also explained to Mr E information about 
payment methods could be found at the back of his statements.
So, Im satisfied Mr E was made fully aware in August about the payment methods Home 
Retail Group can support, as well as the timescales involved. This information was also 
clearly displayed on the reverse of his monthly statements. With this in mind, I think Mr E 
shouldve made his monthly contractual payment earlier to fulfil his obligations. 
Mr E has said that he didnt receive his October statement from Home Retail Group. I can 
see that this was correctly addressed and Im satisfied it was sent. I cant fairly hold Home 
Retail Group liable if it wasnt safely received. But in any event, according to Mr Es 
testimony, he made payment on 18 November  this suggests that he was aware of the 
payment due date. The payment date had been around the same time each month and Mr E 
had held his account for a number of years. So even if it could be proven he didnt get the October statement, Im not persuaded that would make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
Taking all the above points together  I think Home Retail Group acted in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of Mr Es account by charging a late payment fee. If follows that Im 
not going to tell them they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman