DRN-3799055
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as N, complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly terminated 
its Bounce Back Loan and closed its bank account.
Mr M is Ns director and brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
N was incorporated in May 2019. It held a bank account with Santander and successfully 
applied to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan of £50,000, which was drawn down on 18 May 
2020.
In October 2020, Santander conducted a review of Ns Bounce Back Loan application and 
blocked the companys access to its bank account  and the remaining loan funds held 
therein  while it did so. 
Santander wrote to N on 16 October, explaining that it had some concerns as to the 
companys eligibility for the loan it had obtained. It said:
The activity on Ns account suggested that it wasnt trading on 1 March 2020 as 
required by the Loan Scheme eligibility criteria.
When requesting the loan, N had declared an annual turnover of £200,000 but the 
banks records only showed income of around £2,000. This was relevant as a 
business was only entitled to borrow up to 25% of its annual turnover under the Loan 
Scheme rules.
It had identified that N may not have used the loan funds for business purposes, as 
was intended under the Loan Scheme. This was based on Ns transfer of around 
£28,000 to Mr Ms personal Santander account.
The bank asked Mr M to provide information to demonstrate that N met the eligibility criteria 
and had used the loan funds appropriately. 
In his response to Santander, Mr M said that N had been operating shortly after its 
incorporation. He said that the turnover figure hed declared had been an estimate, as was 
allowed for under the Loan Scheme rules, and had been based on a contract signed in 
November 2019 with a value of £225,000. This contract had not, in the event, been fulfilled 
due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on Ns prospective client. And he said that 
the loan funds that had been used to date  of around £30,000  had been spent on salaries 
and outsourced work. 
After some further dialogue between Santander and Mr M, in which the bank asked for tax 
returns that Mr M was unable to provide, the bank concluded that N hadnt been entitled to 
the loan and terminated the agreement. It recovered £11,000 from Mr Ms personal account 
with the bank and applied this, along with the remaining balance in Ns account, to the loan 
balance. This left an outstanding amount of around £20,000, which N was asked to repay 
immediately. Santander also closed Ns bank account.
Mr M sought to appeal Santanders decision, ultimately leading to this complaint, as he 
maintained that N was eligible for the loan and thought the bank had acted unfairly in 
recalling it months after it had been approved and utilised  causing his business significant 
disruption. As Santander maintained its decision, Mr M referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Santander had done anything 
wrong. She said, in summary, that:
Santander had initially approved Ns application on the basis of the companys self-
declaration as to its eligibility, in keeping with the Loan Scheme rules. It was entitled 
to carry out checks subsequently to verify the information N had provided, in the 
manner it had.
She thought it had been reasonable for Santander to conclude that there was 
insufficient evidence of Ns eligibility to the loan, on the basis that:
oIt didnt appear that N had provided a copy of the £225,000 contract to the 
bank to demonstrate its estimated turnover amount.
oIn any event, shed since provided this to Santander and it confirmed that this 
wouldnt have been considered sufficient evidence  which she thought was 
fair. The bank questioned the reliability of the document, noting the 
agreement was with a third-party company that had recently filed dormant 
accounts.
oN had been unable to provide a copy of its tax return and hadnt filed any 
accounts with Companies House. While Mr M had said that N had been 
granted extensions to do both, hed not provided any evidence of this.
As she thought Santander held legitimate concerns as to the accuracy of the 
information that N had provided to obtain the loan, it had been entitled to withdraw 
the facility. This had also led the bank to close Ns bank account, which it had done in 
line with the terms and conditions.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said that all of Ns accounts were held with 
Santander so it had the opportunity to review everything it had provided in its application and 
complete all appropriate checks before entering into the agreement  and had acted unfairly 
in reviewing the position some five months after the loan had been provided. He still 
maintained that N had been eligible for the loan on the basis of its projected turnover, for 
which he thought hed provided a reasonable figure based on the contract. And he didnt 
accept that the bank hadnt seen the contract, as hed provided this by post and email in 
response to its queries.
With no resolution, Ns complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
While my initial conclusion was the same as that reached by our investigator  in that I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld  my reasons were slightly different. So I sent a 
provisional decision to both parties and invited them to submit anything else they wanted me 
to consider before I made a final decision. I said:There were a number of eligibility requirements that had to be satisfied before a business 
could obtain a loan under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme. Of particular relevance here, 
these included that:
The applicant was engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK at the date 
of the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 2020 and had been 
adversely affected by coronavirus.
The loan amount could be no more than 25% of the applicants annual turnover, 
which was to be based on turnover during the 2019 calendar year. Businesses 
established after 1 January 2019  as N was  could use an estimate.
The loan would be used to provide economic benefit to the business and not for 
personal purposes.
Santander approved Ns application on the strength of the companys self-declaration 
that it met these criteria. In keeping with the nature of the Loan Scheme, applicants self-
attested to eligibility with minimal checks by lenders in order to process applications and 
provide funds quickly. It wasnt expected or required to verify the information provided by 
an applicant, and I cant say it made an error in approving the application on the basis of 
the information that Mr M provided.
When Santander subsequently reviewed things  as it was entitled to, in line with its anti-
fraud obligations both under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme and its wider legal and 
regulatory requirements  it concluded that N wasnt eligible for the loan it had obtained 
and that it had grounds to terminate the agreement. Ive carefully considered the basis of 
the banks decision in light of all that Mr M has said and provided both to Santander and 
us. Having done so, I think Santanders decision was reasonable. I say this because:
There is very little evidence to show that N was carrying on business on 1 March 
2020. Mr M has confirmed that N only banked with Santander, but statements for 
its account dont show any business-related activity and nothing that might 
amount to turnover prior to the drawdown of the loan. The fact that N was 
incorporated  and therefore existed  doesnt, in and of itself, demonstrate that it 
was trading.
It is irregular that N hasnt filed any accounts with Companies House or filed a tax 
return with HM Revenue and Customs since its incorporation over three years 
ago. Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to demonstrate how this situation has 
legitimately arisen in view of the activity that he says the company was 
undertaking. Companies are obliged to file tax returns even if they make a loss, 
or have no tax liability.
The only documentary evidence of any trading activity that Mr M was able to 
provide to Santander was a copy of one contract that was purportedly entered 
into in November 2019. Santander highlights that the contract in question was 
with a company (D) that had declared itself dormant with Companies House in 
accounts made up to 31 August 2019, just six weeks before the contract was 
signed. Other information about Ds financial position call into question its ability 
to enter into a £225,000 contract for the CEO strategy consultancy services that 
N was to provide. This contract wasnt actually fulfilled and there is no evidence 
to confirm when it was cancelled, or why. All of this leads to some reasonable 
doubt as to the authenticity of the contract.While it was possible for applicants to use a projected turnover figure when 
submitting their application, given all Ive said above Im not persuaded that Ns 
estimate of £200,000 was accurate or reasonable.
Of the £30,000 loan funds that N utilised, around £28,500 was transferred to 
Mr Ms personal account  when the loan was only to be used for Ns business 
purposes. This also raises further doubt as to what business activity N was 
conducting such that it didnt need to utilise these monies itself. And although the 
payment of a salary could well amount to a legitimate business expense, this 
seems difficult to justify in the context described above  most notably that N 
wasnt generating any income  and given that Mr M wasnt receiving any such 
payments prior to Ns receipt of the loan.
Under the terms and conditions of Ns Bounce Back Loan agreement, Santander was 
entitled to terminate the loan and demand its immediate repayment in certain 
circumstances. This included where any information provided in the loan application was 
found to have been misleading, incomplete or incorrect. It also included a failure to 
comply with the terms of the agreement, which specified that the loan was to be used 
wholly for Ns business purposes  and a failure to provide the bank with evidence it 
required from the company to meet its Know Your Customer and due diligence 
requirements. Taking into account all of the above, I think Santander was entitled to 
terminate the loan on any of these grounds.
Under the terms and conditions of Ns account and the loan agreement, Santander also 
had the right of set off  in short, it was entitled to use any credit balance held by N in 
any other account with Santander towards the repayment of any amounts the company 
owed to the bank. So I dont think Santander did anything wrong in removing the funds 
from Ns account and applying these to reduce the amount it was owed under the 
Bounce Back Loan agreement. The banks recovery of funds from Mr Ms personal 
account is the subject of a separate complaint, so I wont comment on that further here.
The actions Santander took when restricting and later closing Ns bank account were in 
line with the applicable terms and conditions and  given all Ive said about the validity of 
its concerns over Ns entitlement to the loan  were reasonable steps for the bank to 
take. 
So based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Santander did anything wrong in how it 
terminated and recalled the Bounce Back Loan from N, or in its restriction and closure of 
the companys bank account. It follows that there is no basis on which I could fairly hold 
the bank responsible for any impact this may have had on the company.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. He replied to say, in summary, that:
He and N had been represented as profiting from the Bounce Back Loan facility even 
though the evidence pointed towards a small business having acted in a reasonable 
and measured manner to maintain its viability in the face of the coronavirus 
pandemic.
N met the Bounce Back Loan eligibility criteria, having been entitled to use an 
estimated turnover figure, and this was demonstrated by its contract with D. After 
what he described as legal consideration, he found it unwarranted for Santander to 
make judgements on this unfulfilled contract and hadnt evidence its stance.Santanders terms and conditions said it would conduct checks on the information 
provided within Ns application prior to the release of funds and also that it would give 
a reasonable period in which to remedy any breach, but the bank had failed to do 
either.
The loan had been used for the benefit of the business and not for personal 
purposes, and Santander hadnt evidenced that the opposite was true.
Santander said it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why Mr Ms further comments havent led me to a different 
view.
Ive taken into account everything Mr M has said about why he still thinks N was eligible for 
and entitled to the Bounce Back Loan it obtained. But hes not told us anything new or 
provided any other evidence in support of this position. I also dont agree that the available 
evidence points to the loan having been used for the benefit of the business, as the very 
limited information that is available shows the vast majority of the funds that were utilised 
were simply transferred into Mr Ms personal account. So, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I still think Santander reasonably concluded that N wasnt eligible and 
had reasonable grounds to consider that the loan wasnt being utilised in the manner 
expected and prescribed by the Loan Scheme rules.
In reaching that view, Ive considered everything that Mr M has provided in making his 
case  including the contract with D. I dont think the requirement is necessarily on 
Santander, as Mr M contends, to evidence that N was not eligible. Id expect Mr M to be able 
to demonstrate, on Ns behalf, that the company was eligible. And for the reasons Ive set 
out, I dont think he has been able to do that. In reaching that conclusion, I have had to take 
a view on the unfulfilled contract in light of the available evidence as that is central to the 
matters at issue. 
Mr M has highlighted provisions within the loan agreement that explained Santander would 
release the funds after conducting its final checks, which I take to mean he thinks the bank 
ought to have identified any issues with Ns eligibility earlier. While there were certain checks 
that lenders were required to complete before approving a Bounce Back Loan application, as 
I explained in my provisional decision these didnt extend to verifying the self-declarations 
made by the applicant as to their eligibility. Santander did nothing wrong in accepting the 
information that Mr M provided to it when submitting Ns application.
Mr M has also suggested that Santander failed to give N a reasonable opportunity to remedy 
the alleged breach as required by the terms and conditions of the loan. But I dont agree that 
this is the case either. Santander wrote to Mr M and invited him to evidence Ns eligibility 
and use of the funds, which it then reviewed before making its decision. Mr M has also 
raised his unhappiness at what he perceives to be the banks unilateral decision-making. 
But in addition to the opportunity he was initially given by the bank to demonstrate Ns 
eligibility and entitlement to the loan, he has had further opportunity to do so throughout the 
course of this complaint and, most recently, in response to my provisional decision. For the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think he has done so.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman