DRN-3224612
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say they were forced by Santander UK Plc into taking out term assurance that 
they did not want or need in order to gain approval for their mortgage lending. To resolve 
their complaint, they want their premiums to be refunded in full, with interest.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R met with Santander in 2014. They agreed to take out a joint life assurance 
which began in November 2014. It was set up over two policies as they purchased an equity 
share scheme home. The first offered them level cover of £57,500 for a 25-year term as 
cover for their equity share of their new property. The second matched the remaining sum 
assured of £215,675 on a decreasing basis for the capital repayment mortgage balance.  
Santander wasnt able to offer mortgage lending on the basis they required due to the equity 
share scheme arrangement. So, the borrowing was secured with a different lender.  
In 2020, Mr and Mrs R complained. They said the adviser had forced them into taking out 
the cover, suggesting it was compulsory in order to secure a mortgage elsewhere. They say 
they both had death in service benefits, and they did not need the cover provided by either 
policy.  
Santander refused the complaint in August 2020. It firstly told Mr and Mrs R that it thought 
the complaint had been made outside of the time limits applying to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, and it would not give its consent for the complaint to continue.  
So, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service, where it was considered by one of 
our investigators. She explained that the complaint had been made within time, as it was 
lodged with Santander within six years of the date the policy began in 2014. Santander 
accepted her view on that and confirmed it no longer objected to the complaint continuing. 
She otherwise did not think Santander hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by selling Mr 
and Mrs R term assurance cover. She noted that the policy began after Mr and Mrs R had 
secured their mortgage with a different lender. She therefore did not believe that Mr and Mrs 
R had been forced into taking it out and they could have cancelled the cover if needed.   
Further, she said the documentation from the time of the sale noted how Mr and Mrs R had 
wanted to clear their mortgage in the event of death or serious illness to either one of them. 
Claims on this basis could be made as long as the policy was in force, whereas employment 
benefits did not have the same security. She therefore did not agree the recommendation for 
the cover was unsuitable or that the policies had been mis-sold.   
Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigator. They made a number of further comments, 
noting:
they did not plan to take out mortgage lending with Santander;
their mortgage broker had in fact recommended that they consider taking out term 
assurance;
Mrs R was employed by Santander at the time and they therefore knew that cover 
would be discounted on that basis;
they knew theyd go elsewhere for the mortgage lending;
they were still told that in order to secure borrowing with any lender, they needed to 
take out life cover;
so they did so on the basis that their mortgage would be approved;
they placed full reliance on what Santanders adviser said, but it turned out to be 
untrue;
the mortgage began in October 2014 and the advice from Santander came before 
that, not after;
they have a combined £320,000 of life cover from their employment benefits and this 
shouldnt be discounted;
the point about cancellation was moot  why would they cancel the policy if the 
adviser had told them it was a requirement of their mortgage?;
this situation feels very similar to the mis-selling of payment proception insurance 
(PPI);
if needs be, Mr and Mrs R will take court action. 
Santander noted the investigators view and Mr and Mrs Rs comments. It said that it had 
nothing else to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans 
decision. I realise this wont be the answer Mr and Mrs R had hoped for. However, I am also 
of the view that this complaint should not succeed. 
My findings are, in summary:
I realise that Mr and Mrs R say they felt pressured into taking out the cover;
but, I have seen no objective evidence to suggest this was the case;
as Mr R has identified, the protection review that took place with the adviser was 
dated 14 August 2014;
it was set out how Mr and Mrs R were taking out their first mortgage on an equity 
share scheme basis whereby 20% of the lending (the £57,500) was set up with 
interest-free repayment for the first five years;
the review indeed confirms they were referred by a mortgage broker and that 
Santander could not offer them a mortgage because at that time it did not have an 
appropriate lending policy for purchase of an equity share scheme property;
I have no reason to dispute Mr and Mrs Rs recollection, and I can how they have 
gone into some detail about what happened at the time which is reflected in parts of 
the review;
but I must weigh up all of the evidence including Santanders version of events and 
the contemporaneous advice records retained from the time of the advice;
having done so, I am not able to conclude that the adviser coerced or compelled Mr 
and Mrs R into taking out cover they didnt want;   
they received cancellation rights if they no longer wanted to start the term assurance;
I know Mr R feels they could not have cancelled the policy but I dont agree;
the recommendation was exactly that  a proposal for them to consider;
the advisers protection review report does not insist cover must be taken for 
securing mortgage lending with another business;on balance, I am not persuaded that the policy was forced on Mr and Mrs R such that 
they had to go ahead with it;
their mortgage lending had already been secured one month before the insurance 
began and they were given three months to reflect on it starting;
Mrs R worked for Santander and I would reasonably expect that she had a degree of 
understanding around term assurance; 
but even if this wasnt the case, I do not believe the recommendation made to Mr and 
Mrs R was unsuitable;
there is no evidence that Mr and Mrs R had any other benefits that replicated critical 
illness cover;
they had the benefit of cover that, in the event of a valid claim, would have made a 
lump sum payment equivalent to the combined mortgage liability surviving partner 
had either of them passed away or been diagnosed with any of the listed serious 
illnesses in the policy;
I know Mr and Mrs R both have workplace life assurance cover but employment 
benefits can be involuntarily lost; 
Mr and Mrs R may feel that was unlikely, but it was not an impossibility;
employment can end for unpreventable reasons, such as redundancy or where a 
persons health may prevent him or her being able to work;
whereas, term assurance - as long as the premiums were maintained - guaranteed 
the benefits I have outlined above;
though Mr and Mrs R are entitled to feel otherwise, having cover for a substantial 
debt in the event of death or suffering from a critical illness is a sensible step to take;
I do not believe Santanders adviser acted unfairly on unreasonably in making the 
recommendation in the event Mr and Mrs R were taking on a new mortgage debt  
with another business or otherwise;
it follows that I dont believe the term assurance to be mis-sold, nor do I agree that 
the premiums should be returned to Mr and Mrs R;
if Mr and Mrs R wish to pursue the matter in a court, they remain free to do so.
My final decision
For the above reasons I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman