DRN-2981005
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as F has complained that delays caused by XL Catlin Insurance
Company UK Limited (Catlin) in settling a claim under its commercial insurance policy led to
it incurring consequential losses.
Mrs H, director of F, has brought the complaint on Fs behalf.
For ease of reading, reference to Catlin will include their agent.   
What happened
F held a commercial insurance policy with Catlin. It contacted Catlin in November 2019 to
claim on its policy after it found its bulk container of wine to be leaking. This resulted in a
loss of around 1,000 litres of wine, which F would have mixed with other ingredients to make
its product.
Catlin appointed a loss adjuster on 3 December 2019, who arranged a site inspection for
4 December 2019. F complained to Catlin towards the end of December, as it thought they
were taking too long to deal with its claim. Catlin didnt think there had been any significant
delay as the claim was progressing.
F contacted Catlin again in early January 2020 as it still hadnt had an answer to its claim.
On 10 January 2020, Catlin turned down the claim as they thought the most likely cause of
the loss was a split in the containers seal, which was specifically excluded by the policy.
F complained to Catlin. Following further discussions, on 14 February 2020 Catlin agreed to
settle the claim in full, valuing the lost stock at £5,000. F didnt think this was enough and
asked Catlin to replace the wine instead of paying the cash settlement. On 17 March 2020,
Catlin and F agreed to settle the claim for £9,128.50, which represented the value of the
wine and the cost of destroying it, minus the policy excess.
Also in March 2020, F brought its complaint to our service. It believed Catlin had delayed
in handling the claim which had caused it consequential losses of £64,176, as the value of
the product that it would have sold.
F said that if it had received the settlement money from Catlin by early January it would have
been able to import a new batch of wine and transport it to be mixed and bottled within a few
days. It said it was still possible to import the wine during January and early February but
after that date its suppliers were impacted by Covid-19. F was only able to replace the wine
and restart production in August 2020.
Our investigator looked into Fs complaint and didnt think Catlin had done enough to put
things right. He thought Catlin had caused unnecessary delays and recommended that
Catlin gather further information to establish the additional losses that had been caused.
F accepted this outcome, but Catlin disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
They thought they had been correct to initially decline the claim on the information available
and still thought there was a good possibility that the damage wasnt covered by the policy,
although they accepted they possibly hadnt done enough to demonstrate an exclusion
applied. Catlin also didnt think F had done enough to mitigate any additional losses
incurred, for example by replacing the wine itself.
Before reaching a decision, I asked F to provide evidence of its accounts. However, as no
further information was received, I reached a provisional decision on the information I had
available. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 30 July 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to consider in assessing this complaint are:
Did Catlin cause an unreasonable delay in handling Fs claim?
And, if so, did this delay cause F to suffer consequential losses which it could not
            reasonably avoid?
Delays
Fs policy covers it for loss of stock due to accidental damage. When dealing with a claim,
Catlin has a duty to do so promptly and fairly.
In response to our investigator, Catlin said theres a possibility the damage wasnt covered
under the policy. However, Catlin did ultimately accept the claim on the basis that photos of
the wine showed some impact marks. So, I dont think its reasonable for it now to suggest
that its settlement was offered on a goodwill basis.
From the evidence provided, it appears that the information Catlin used to make a decision
to settle the claim was available when they initially declined it on 10 January 2020. While 
further discussions between Catlin and F might have taken place after Catlin declined
the claim, I think Catlin had an opportunity to discuss these things with F before declining
it. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that Catlin should have settled the
claim by 10 January 2020.
I appreciate that F believes the claim should have been settled sooner as the loss adjuster
visited the site on 4 December 2019. However, it does take some time to review a claim and
I can see that the claim was progressing throughout that time. So, I think the reasonable
point at which Catlin could have settled the claim was 10 January 2020.
So, I now need to consider what delays Catlin caused after 10 January 2020. Catlin agreed
to pay the claim on 14 February 2020. However, at that time Catlin offered £5,000 which F
didnt think was enough. Instead, F asked Catlin to replace the wine instead. As the claim
was ultimately settled for around £9,000, I think thats the offer that should have been made
on 10 January 2020. And if it had, I think its likely F would have accepted that amount. That
means, I think there was a delay from 10 January 2020 to 17 March 2020 which was caused
by Catlin.
Consequential losses caused by the delay
Fs policy doesnt cover consequential losses, so Catlin arent required to cover losses that
flow from the loss of the wine. However, I think its fair and reasonable for Catlin to pay
consequential losses if their actions caused F a loss it wouldnt have otherwise had.So, I need to consider whether Catlins delay from 10 January 2020 to 17 March 2020 
caused F a loss it wouldnt have otherwise had. To do that I first need to think about
what would have happened if Catlin had offered the correct amount on 10 January 2020.
It took about a week for the payment to be made so I think F would have had the money by
17 January 2020. F would then have been able to buy more wine to replace the lost stock
and have it mixed and bottled by the end of the month. So, I think Catlins delay meant F
didnt have the wine as quickly as it should have done.
However, even though I accept Catlin caused a delay, to uphold the complaint Id need to be
persuaded that this delay caused F a financial loss and that F had taken reasonable steps to
mitigate those losses. Ive asked F for further information about its accounts which havent
been provided.
F has provided figures to show the turnover on 1,000 litres of wine. However, this isnt the
same as the profit and, in any event, I dont have enough information to fairly conclude that F
would have received this amount on top of the profit it made once Catlin had settled the
claim and F had replaced the wine.
I understand that F thought it would be running low on stock in March 2020 but many orders
such as those from hotels, restaurants and wedding fayres were cancelled during the
national lockdown which meant F was able to fulfil other orders. F said it sold 649 bottles in
22 days during lockdown. It estimated that it would run out of stock at the end of June 2020
and would have nothing to sell until the end of July 2020 when it was able to produce more.
F said it didnt have enough money to replace the wine itself and was unable to get a loan
until orders were confirmed, although I only have Fs testimony to support this and I dont
think thats enough to persuade me that F took reasonable steps to mitigate its losses.
Ive asked F for copies of its accounts to support the loss its indicated, but Ive only seen a
copy of gross sales between 17 May 2020 and 7 August 2020. While some days in
July 2020 show £0, other later dates show sales. This suggests that F did have some stock
to continue making sales through to when it was able to renew production of its product in
August. It is not clear from this evidence that any reduction in sales suffered by F was due
to insufficient stock consequent to the leak.
I also have to bear in mind that Catlins delay should only have caused a delay in production
of around two months if it hadnt been for the pandemic also causing supply problems. When
making an award for consequential losses, I would need to be satisfied that any losses I
awarded would have been reasonably foreseeable by Catlin. In this particular case, I dont
think I can reasonably conclude that the supply problems between March and August
caused by the pandemic were reasonably foreseeable and therefore I wouldnt hold Catlin
responsible for any additional losses which were caused by these problems. As F said that
its losses ultimately transpired in July 2020, I think this is most likely as a result of the supply
problems due to the pandemic rather than the delay between January and March caused by
Catlin in settling the claim.
For these reasons, I dont think I can fairly decide that Catlins delay caused F a financial
loss in sales, so Im not going to make an award for this.
However, F has also said that it experienced a loss of some of the ingredients it mixes with
the wine to make the product, as they went out of date before F could use them. I think its
fair and reasonable that Catlin compensates F for the ingredients that went out of date
between January and the end of March 2020 as I think its likely F would have been able to
use these if Catlin had settled the claim when it should. I dont intend to require Catlin to pay
for the ingredients that were ready to be used in November 2019, as it seems that F wouldnthave been able to use them at the end of January 2020, which is when I think production
would have resumed if Catlin had paid the claim when they should have done. I also dont
think Catlin needs to pay for the ingredients that went off between the end of May 2020 and
the end of June 2020 as the loss of these was caused by the supply problems rather than 
the delay caused by Catlin.
The total value of these items is £1,519 (excluding VAT), so I think thats a fair and
reasonable amount for Catlin to pay to compensate for this. If F isnt VAT registered, Catlin
will need to add VAT to this amount. F will need to provide copies of the invoices for these
items to Catlin in order to receive payment for them.
As F also had to buy these ingredients again in order to restart production, it has been
without money it should have had. To put this right, Catlin should pay interest on the amount
they pay to compensate for ingredients at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date F
bought the new ingredients to the date they make payment. F will need to show the date the
new ingredients were purchased for this calculation to be made.
I also think that Catlin caused F inconvenience in not paying the claim sooner  for
example in the management time spent agreeing the correct settlement and not being able
to take up the offer of a pop-up stand in a department store. Therefore, I intend to require
Catlin to compensate F for this. However, I think much of the inconvenience and disruption
caused to Fs business was due to the supply problems caused by the pandemic, rather than
Catlins delay. For this reason, I think £250 is a fair and reasonable amount for Catlin to pay
F for its unnecessary inconvenience caused by its delays. 
Catlin accepted my provisional decision, but F didnt think the redress went far enough 
towards putting things right. It said it would have been much better off financially if it had 
received the claim settlement earlier because it would have generated the turnover to 
access grants and loans during lockdown.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand F doesnt think my decision goes far enough to put things right, but Im not 
persuaded to depart from my provisional decision. I say that because I havent seen 
anything further to persuade me that Catlin caused F a financial loss it wouldnt have 
otherwise had, other than the loss of materials. Therefore, I dont hold Catlin responsible for 
F not having the relevant turnover to enable it to access grants and loans during lockdown. 
For the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, I remain satisfied that the fair 
and reasonable outcome for this particular complaint is for Catlin to reimburse F for the loss 
of materials and compensation as set out below. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited to pay F:
£1,519 (plus VAT if F isnt VAT registered) to compensate for the lost ingredients 
upon receipt of the invoices for these products.
Interest on this amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date F paid for new
            ingredients to the date Catlin makes payment
£250 compensation for unnecessary inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman