DRN-3766570
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money she lost when 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In late 2020, Miss B met a man on an online dating app who said he was working abroad. 
They began talking and the man asked Miss B to delete the dating app and move their 
conversation to an online messaging app. They then had a number of conversations, by both 
phone and text, and their relationship developed to the point where Miss B felt they were in a 
romantic relationship. Unfortunately, we now know the man was a scammer.
After some time, the man asked Miss M if she would receive and pay the delivery cost for a 
parcel he was sending back to the UK. He explained it was his wages from his mining job 
but that he wouldnt be back in the UK for another couple of weeks and didnt have access to 
any money, so needed her to receive the parcel for him. Miss M agreed and made the 
payment from an account she held with another bank. She was then contacted by the 
shipping company, who said they needed a further payment to deliver the parcel. And the 
man said he would pay her back double what she had to pay. So Miss B made a payment of 
£850 to a money transfer service, using her Nationwide debit card, for the payment to be 
sent to the account details she was given.
The scam was uncovered when Miss B was asked to make a larger payment, as customs 
had opened the parcel and needed a further payment before they would release it. Miss B 
then reported the scam to Nationwide and asked it to refund the money she had lost.
Nationwide investigated Miss Bs complaint but said she had willingly made the payment 
herself, so it didnt agree to refund it. It also said it couldnt dispute the payment, as it was 
made to a money transfer service who had then correctly carried out the transfer. Miss B 
wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Miss Bs complaint. They didnt think the payment would 
have looked particularly unusual or suspicious to Nationwide, so didnt think it would have 
been expected to intervene before the payment was made. So they didnt uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. Miss B disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally a business can hold a consumer liable for disputed payments on their account if 
the evidence suggests its more likely than not that they made them themselves or told 
someone else they could make them.
Miss B accepts she made the card payment from her Nationwide account here. So while I 
recognise that she didnt intend for the money to go to a scammer, she did authorise the 
payment. And so the starting position is that she is liable for the payment and Nationwide 
doesnt have to refund the money she lost.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think 
Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Nationwide should have identified the payment Miss B 
made as suspicious, or that she was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of it.
From looking at the statements for Miss Bs account, I can see there were a number of 
payments out of her account for what I consider to be similar amounts to the scam payment, 
in the weeks before the scam payment was made. The payment also wasnt for a particularly 
large amount. And it didnt use up the entire of Miss Bs available balance or leave the 
balance of her account at a particularly unusual level.
Banks have to strike a balance between processing payments in line with their customers 
instructions and monitoring accounts for suspicious activity. And I think its reasonable here 
that Nationwide didnt identify that Miss B was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of the 
payment, and didnt think the payment was suspicious enough that it needed to ask any 
further questions before allowing it to go through.
Ive also considered whether Nationwide could have done more to try to recover the money 
once it had been told about the scam. But the money was sent to a money transfer service, 
who appear to have just transferred the money as they were instructed to do. So I dont think 
theres anything more Nationwide could reasonably have been expected to do to try to 
recover the money.
Miss B has mentioned the voluntary code Nationwide has signed up to, which is to help 
refund the victims of scams. But this code only applies to payments made by bank transfers, 
and doesnt cover card payments like the payment Miss B made here. So I cant apply the 
terms of the code to this payment.
I sympathise with the position Miss B has found herself in and my decision shouldnt be 
taken as suggesting she did anything wrong. She was the victim of a cruel scam and I 
recognise that this was a traumatic experience for her, and that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to her. But I can only look at what Nationwide is required to do. And, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Nationwide has acted unreasonably and I dont think 
anything Nationwide could reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped her 
losing her money. So I dont think it would be fair to require it to refund the money she lost.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman