DRN-2845467
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say that Social Money Limited went back on an agreement to grant them extra 
time to repay their bridging loan. They say Social Money granted them a further six months, 
but then appointed a Law of Property Act receiver just one month into that time period, whilst 
they were in the process of arranging refinancing to repay the debt.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out this bridging loan on 10 July 2019. The total loan was £177,500 with a 
12-month term, and was secured by a second charge on a property they let out to tenants 
(so it was considered to be for business purposes, and hence unregulated).
Mr L spoke to Social Money on 29 May 2020 to discuss repayment of the loan. During the 
call, a possible term extension was discussed. The parties dispute what was agreed in that 
call, and those arguments have been well-rehearsed throughout our consideration of this 
complaint. Whilst I dont replicate those arguments here, I can confirm Ive read and 
considered them in full.
With their agreement, Social Money passed Mr and Mrs Ls details to an independent 
mortgage broker to see if he was able to arrange alternative financing for them. 
Correspondence passed between the three parties, which again I wont replicate here.
On 10 July 2020 the term ended, and the full sum had become immediately due. Social 
Money didnt take immediate action as it had agreed a leeway period  albeit the parties 
dispute the length of time of that period, and whether there were any conditions attached to 
it.
Social Money appointed a receiver on 11 August 2020. Over the next six months a lot of 
correspondence passed between the parties, with solicitors also becoming involved - again I 
wont replicate the details of that correspondence here  until finally the bridging loan was 
repaid in full on 5 February 2021 through the refinancing of the property in question, and the 
sale of Mr and Mrs Ls residential property.
Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint to us in October 2020. Initially they said they wanted 
the appointment of the receiver to be cancelled, and for them to be given the six-month 
extension that they said was agreed in May 2020. The complaint later evolved as things 
progressed, with Mr and Mrs L saying the receiver was blocking the sale of their residential 
property by making an application for an equitable charge over that property, amongst other 
concerns.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with her findings, and 
as part of their response clarified:
Our specific complaint is that having granted us extra time to repay the loan, The 
BridgeCrowd [the trading name of Social Money] appointed Receivers precipitately and 
without notice only a month into the extension they had granted, right in the middle of 
our refinancing.
The reason for the time extension was because of the extraordinary circumstances of the 
Pandemic during which lenders had closed down just in the months when we needed to 
arrange refinance. 
The case has been passed to me to decide, and Ill be doing so based on Mr and Mrs Ls 
clarification of what their complaint is as Ive set out above.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs L wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, such as the individual rules 
Mr and Mrs L think Social Money has breached, its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr and Mrs L but I dont agree 
that they lacked even-handedness. Its the nature of what we do that we generally have to 
find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the 
facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what happened and whether, 
bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good industry practice and the relevant terms 
and conditions of the bridging loan, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
Once an LPA receiver is appointed, it is legally acting on behalf of the property owner. This 
means that we cant hold a lender responsible for the decisions the receiver makes, nor can 
we hold a lender liable for any of the acts or omissions of the receiver.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs L say Social Money  on 29 May 2020  
agreed to a six-month extension, whereas Social Money says it didnt. That is the point that I 
need to decide before I can move onto considering whether the receiver was fairly 
appointed.
Unfortunately, neither side has a recording of the call in question. 
Mr and Mrs L have provided us with a document that contains about 17 pages of notes 
relating to phone conversations between the parties. Mr and Mrs L told our investigator that 
Mrs L made the notes for each call as they took place, with Mr L being the one speaking on 
the calls. The notes take the form of a transcript, indicating them to be a direct reproduction 
of what was said by each party.
The person Mr L spoke to at Social Money has provided his testimony of what he says was 
discussed and agreed in that call.
Before I go any further I feel I should correct any misunderstanding on Mr and Mrs Ls part of 
why our investigator asked them if they had a copy of the call and their belief that it implies 
we think financial institutions shouldnt be trusted. Mr and Mrs L said:
You  state  you are reluctant  to accept  aspects  of the minutes  of our telephone  calls 
from us, "without  a call recording  available."
This is a most  serious  aspect  of your approach  to our case  because  it suggest  that 
the FOS  thinks  lenders  are not to be trusted  and the public  should  always  resort  to recording  conversations  with their lenders.
Thats  not the case.  It is normal  for complaints  where  the outcome  turns  on what  
exactly  what  said  and how  in a phone  call, that we try to obtain  a copy  of that call, if 
one exists.  As Social  Money  didnt  have  a copy,  it seems  an obvious  thing  for our 
investigator  to then ask Mr and Mrs L if they had a copy.  Especially  when  theyve  
provided  such  a detailed  transcript  of multiple  calls;  that could  have  come  from 
listening  to call recordings  back,  rather  than being  transcribed  live.
The difficulty  we have  here is that there  is no recording  of the call. Whilst  Mr and Mrs L 
have  provided  us with a copy  of their notes  of the call, I must  keep  in mind  that is only 
their version  of what  they think  was said and agreed  at the time.  It is inherently  
possible  that something  was misunderstood,  mis-heard  or mis-noted.  Thats  not to say 
I believe  Mr and Mrs L have  provided  those  call notes  in anything  other  than good  faith,  
but I have  to bear in mind  that we also have  testimony  from the other  party  to the 
conversation  and he says  that isnt what  was said and agreed.
In the absence  of a call recording  I have  to decide  what  is more  likely,  on balance,  
having  considered  all of the available  evidence.
In the complaint  form Mr and Mrs L said EVENTUALLY  WE RECEIVED  A 
TELEPHONE  CALL  ON 29 MAY  FROM  A DIRECTOR  OF BRIDGECROWD  WHO  
PROMISED  HE WOULD  SEND  US A PROPOSAL  FOR  AN INFORMAL  SIX MONTHS  
EXTENSION  OF THE LOAN.
There  are two issues  with this statement,  the first being  I cant  see any mention  of a 
proposal  being  sent to Mr and Mrs L in their notes  of that call, which  they say is a 
transcript.  And the second  is that an agreement  to send  a proposal  for an extension  is 
very different  from an agreement  to actually  extend  the loan (even  informally).  
This is also shown  by the call notes  Mr and Mrs L have  provided.  Whilst  their 
submissions  indicate  they believe  a six-month  term extension  was agreed,  their call 
notes  dont  actually  show  that.
The mention  of With  an extension  it is a maximum  of 6 months  and a minimum  of three  
is at the point  a formal  term extension  is being  discussed.  But in the call notes  it is clear  
the parties  agreed  the conditions  of a formal  term extension  couldnt  be met by 
Mr and Mrs L as their loan to value  was too high,  and they had no way of reducing  it 
sufficiently.  So that part of the call isnt relevant  to the informal  term extension/leeway  
period  that Mr and Mrs L say was agreed  to.
The next part of Mr and Mrs Ls call notes  relates  to that leeway  period,  and their notes  
indicate  Social  Money  said:  
So then there  is the other  method  which  is that we just give you more  time and, if 
you can't  service  that period  for the months  after the redemption  day, then we'd give 
you up to the six months  to redeem  the loan.  If you have  not managed  to redeem  the 
loan in that time,  we will take enforcement  action.  The charges  that come  into 
effect  on termination  date  will be payable . So, to give you an example,  on the 
gross  loan of £177,500  the default  charge  is a 6% fee first off - so £10,500  as a fee 
plus interest  of 3% per month  and, in agreeing  to an extension,  I am trying  to avoid  
those  fees for you - which  I can do. [my emphasis]
This is just an explanation  of what  would  happen  if the loan defaulted   that is, if it 
wasnt  repaid  on the date it fell due. Under  the conditions  of the loan a fee of 6% became  payable,  and Interest  payable  at the Default  Rate  shall  be payable  monthly  in 
arrears  and if not paid shall  itself  accrue  interest  at the Default  Rate.  Those  sums  were  
payable   that is Mr and Mrs L needed  to pay them  rather  than them  just being  added  
to the debt.  That ties in with Mr and Mrs Ls notes  of the call  that a 6% fee plus the 
default  interest  rate would  be payable.  As Mr and Mrs L didnt  pay them  then 
everything  else discussed  falls away.
In addition  a solicitor  acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs L wrote to Social Money on 18 August 
2020, saying:
On 27 May 2020 you finally contacted them and you told them you would send them 
some options with BridgeCrowd and you then informed them by email on 2 June 2020 
that they would hear from a broker [brokers name]. You never followed up with the 
options. And;
On 9 July 2020 [the broker] told our clients that he had negotiated an arrangement with 
you for a two-month extension to the term of the Loan.
It is unusual there was no mention of the six-month extension in this email, and that there is 
mention of the broker negotiating a two-month extension. Why would the broker have 
needed to have negotiated a two-month extension if there was already a six-month informal 
extension in place? The solicitor was acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs L therefore it doesnt 
make sense that there is no reference to the six-month informal agreement in there if 
Mr and Mrs L believed that had been agreed to, and then reneged on.
Later on in that same letter the solicitor wrote  you have failed to follow through on what 
you proposed to our clients (to provide them with options). You have also failed to honour 
what you agreed with [the broker] (to extend the Loan by two months). 
Again it seems unusual there is no mention here of a failing by Social Money to honour an 
informal six-month agreement at a point where Mr and Mrs Ls solicitor was listing all the 
perceived failings of Social Money.
Mr and Mrs L instructed a different solicitor to write to Social Money, and its letter of 
26 October 2020 again had no mention of this six-month informal extension From the 
perspective of [Mr and Mrs L], this would place them in the position they were told they 
would be in by the agent to whom they were referred by Bridgecrowd in July 2020 before 
the decision was taken to prematurely appoint a receiver. 
Having considered everything Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that the only 
agreement was the one made with the broker in July 2020, and that was for a two-month 
leeway period to allow for the loan to be repaid before enforcement action would be taken.
However, we have the emails between Social Money and the broker and they clearly 
indicate there were conditions attached to that.
Mr L was copied into the email from the broker to Social Money on 8 July 2020 which said 
I am pleased to confirm that we now have two offers for a re-finance. As this will take 
some time to complete, May I request an extension of two months for the existing loan term 
for [Mr and Mrs L] to allow us enough time to re-finance?
Social Money replied to the broker by email the following day We can allow a further two 
months for the loan to be repaid, we will require that the borrower services the loan interest 
at the original rate during this period and we will defer the Default Fee and Default Interest 
uplift until final redemption.The broker asked when the first serviced payment was to be paid by, to which Social Money 
replied Its actually 10 July 2020. As long as its paid before the end of the month Im pretty 
relaxed. So from this, it seems to me that Social Money was only willing to grant the 
two-month term extension, thus deferring the payment Mr and Mrs L needed to make of the 
Default fee and Default interest, if Mr and Mrs L paid the loan interest due that month by the 
end of July. As that payment wasnt made Social Money appointed the receiver.
Whilst I understand concerns that Social Moneys email of 6 August 2020 didnt state the 
non-payment of the interest as the reason for the receiver to be appointed, that doesnt 
mean it wasnt. Social Money was clear in its email to the broker that the two-month period 
was dependent on Mr and Mrs L paying the interest due by the end of July 2020, as soon as 
they didnt do that Social Money was within its rights to appoint the receiver, irrespective of 
anything else that was happening with the potential refinance options. 
Mr and Mrs L have also questioned why Social Money didnt tell them it needed the interest 
to be paid in July itself. At that point Mr and Mrs L had appointed the broker to act for them, 
and it was their broker that requested the two-month period from Social Money. So it is 
entirely right that Social Money just replied its agreement  and the conditions attached to 
that agreement  back to Mr and Mrs Ls broker. It had no need to inform them separately of 
that (or to copy them into the email), as it was allowed to assume that the broker would 
inform Mr and Mrs L of the details of the agreement.
Whilst Social Money passed Mr and Mrs Ls information to the broker, that doesnt mean the 
broker was acting on behalf of Social Money. The broker was an independent company 
acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs L. If Mr and Mrs L feel the broker acted incorrectly, then that 
is something they can take up with the broker directly themselves; neither this service nor 
Social Money can get involved in that.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I dont find that Social Money granted Mr and Mrs L an 
unconditional six-month informal leeway period. Nor do I find that to be something it would 
have needed to offer. 
Under the bridging loan facility terms and conditions Social Money was able to appoint the 
receiver the moment the loan wasnt repaid on time  that is, on 10 July 2020. Instead it 
agreed with Mr and Mrs Ls broker that it would allow a further two months if Mr and Mrs L 
paid the monthly interest due, with the first payment being due in July 2020. As that payment 
of interest wasnt made in July 2020 then Social Money didnt have to allow the rest of the 
two-month period, and so did nothing wrong in appointing the receiver. Its entitlement to do 
that is set out in the legal contract that Mr and Mrs L entered into.
As I said I would, Ive dealt with the specific complaint that Mr and Mrs L set out in their 
email of 27 April 2021 and in their complaint form to us. Having done so, and having 
considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs L may want me to.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman