DRN-3747324
The complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG), with whom he had home care 
insurance cover, failed to properly service his boiler in 2020. He said this led to it breaking 
down and having to be replaced in 2022.
What happened
Mr G had home care insurance cover with BG. This provided boiler, controls and central 
heating cover, including an annual service. Mr G said his boiler was around 40 years old at 
the time hed had to replace it. 
BG thinks that the boiler was around 23 years old. It said the manufacturer stopped making 
the appliance some years ago.
Mr Gs policy year ran from 11 August to 10 August.
I understand that Mr G had been happy with the service provided under this insurance until 
2019. He said that in 2019, a BG engineer had fitted a drain to his boiler, which was used to 
flush through his radiators, keeping the boiler system clean. He said the engineer had said 
that the radiators must be flushed each yearly service. But that this wasnt done at any of the 
services between 2020 and 2022, even though hed asked the engineers to do it. 
Mr G said that on 11 July 2019, BGs engineer couldnt have carried out a proper service, as 
he only spent a matter of minutes with the boiler. He said hed called BG in 2020 to tell them 
his boiler hadnt been properly serviced in 2019. 
BG sent an engineer on 7 August 2020. Mr G said this engineer was also only in the house 
for 10 minutes before he left. So he didnt consider hed done a proper service either. And 
complained to BG. I understand that Mr G had raised a few complaints in August 2020 about 
the quality of the service. 
BG replied to the complaint about how thorough the August 2020 service had been carried 
out on 15 September 2020. It apologised for the service. And said it would arrange for 
feedback to be given to the engineer. It also said it had arranged a further appointment for 
16 September 2020 to have the boiler serviced again.
BGs engineers log from 16 September 2020 showed that this service was carried out. It 
also showed that a thermostat was needed. The engineer ordered this and replaced it two 
days later.
Mr G said that his boiler broke down due to the lack of a service on the 29 March 2022. He 
said the BG engineer who attended on that date said the system was choked at the back. 
BGs engineers noted recorded: "Diverter passing hydro block jammed", and said the
two parts needed for a repair were obsolete, which meant he couldnt repair the boiler. 
Mr G said he had a new boiler fitted at a cost of £3,620 on 8 April 2022. I understand that 
BG arranged for Mr Gs 2021/2022 premium to be refunded to him when it had established 
that it couldnt repair his old boiler.
Mr G complained to BG. He felt his boiler had broken down due to its failure to properly 
service it between 2020 and 2022. He acknowledged that he'd received a refund of his 
2021/2022 premium. But felt it was wrong for BG to have taken his premiums in the 
knowledge that it couldn't repair the boiler. He still felt that his boiler wouldnt have needed to 
be replaced if it had been serviced properly. And he said it hadnt been serviced properly in 
2020 as in his view it took at least half an hour for the boiler to be serviced. But he said the 
engineer was only there for five minutes.
BG issued its final response to the complaint on 23 June 2022. It said it hadnt missed any 
annual services. But it acknowledged that as Mr G felt that the 7 August 2020 service hadnt 
been properly carried out, he felt that no annual service had actually taken place in the 2019 
to 2020 policy year. As such, BG offered to reimburse Mr G £65 for the missed service. It 
noted that Mr G hadnt accepted its offer.
BG also noted that Mr Gs boiler had been on a reduced parts list since 2015. And that both 
parts that had been needed to fix his boiler on 29 March 2022 were obsolete. It said this was 
why it couldnt be repaired. BG said that Mr Gs Annual Service Renewal Documents had 
stated the following:
Important Information about parts availability 
Your boilers manufacturer stopped making your particular boiler a while ago. Theyre still 
making some parts for your boiler, however, some parts are becoming difficult to source. 
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but will do our best to 
keep it running for as long as possible.
Overall, BG didnt agree that Mr Gs boiler had broken down due to any issues with the 
annual service. 
Mr G was unhappy with BGs response. So he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. She couldnt evidence that 
the boiler had broken down because of something BG had done wrong. She was also 
satisfied that the parts required for the repair were obsolete. So it was fair for BG to have 
told Mr G that it couldnt repair the boiler. 
Mr G didnt agree with our investigator. He felt that the BG engineers whod serviced his 
boiler in 2019 and 2020 hadnt done anything during their visits. He said the drain hadnt 
been cleaned. Mr G felt that the least BG should compensate him for was for the cost of two 
years annual service fees and a contribution towards the cost of his new boiler. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr G would like BG to reimburse him for both the 2019 and 2020 annual services. Hed also 
like it to contribute towards the cost of his replacement boiler.As our investigator noted, BG has already responded to a complaint about the 2020 service 
in September 2020. And Mr G didnt bring his complaint to this service within six months of 
its response. Therefore I agree that I cant ask BG to reconsider its offer to reimburse the 
£65 the 2020 service wouldve cost. 
However, as our investigator did, I can provide general comments about our approach here. 
In doing so, I will also consider whether theres any evidence that the annual services 
werent carried out properly and that this led to the breakdown of the boiler.
I first looked at the policy terms and conditions. These state that an annual service is:
- a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations. 
The terms and conditions go on to state the following:
One of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include 
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces.
If the visit shows that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean 
it, well do so. During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows you exactly what 
weve looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you about it.
In order to conclude that the annual services werent adequate, and had been the cause of 
the boiler breakdown, wed have to see expert evidence stating that was the case. From the 
description given in the terms and conditions, and from the engineers logs, Ive not seen any 
evidence that BGs engineers failed to do what they were supposed to do for the 2019 and 
2020 annual service. 
However, BG has offered to refund Mr G the £65 cost of the 2019/2020 policy year annual 
service, on the basis that the replacement service it agreed to carry out didnt take place in 
the same policy year. In doing so, it acknowledged that Mr G didnt feel that the 7 August 
2020 service had been appropriately carried out. As such, I consider that it was fair for BG to 
have offered Mr G reimbursement for the service in the 2019/2020 policy year, as he felt he 
didnt have the benefit of the annual service that year.
I acknowledge that Mr G hasnt accepted this offer. But BG has confirmed that the offer is 
still available if Mr G changes his mind.
I can see that Mr G felt hed previously had a good service from previous BG engineers. 
From what hes said, it appears that they may have provided him with a service that was 
over and above that covered by the policy. For example, Mr G said that an engineer whod 
attended his home in 2019 had fitted a drain to his boiler. And told him that the radiators had 
to be flushed each yearly service. Mr G said this hadnt been done at any of the services 
between 2020 and 2022, despite him asking for it. He considers this led to the boiler 
breakdown. 
But the policy terms and conditions show that flushing the radiators wasnt included in an 
annual service. Instead, a services aim was to check that the boiler was still working safely. 
BG couldve provided other services to Mr G outside of his existing agreement with it. The 
policy booklet also explained that a Powerflush could be available. And that it would tell a 
customer if their system needed a power flush to work properly. The policy booklet said:
Youll need to pay for it separately  it isnt included in your coverOverall, Ive seen no evidence that the annual services werent carried out in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy. 
I next considered if BG was in anyway responsible for the breakdown of the boiler. And if it 
took the steps it shouldve taken after the boiler broke down.
The breakdown of the boiler
As I noted above, Mr G said that BG installed a drain in 2019. He said he was told this 
needed to be flushed through yearly. 
From what Ive seen, the engineers notes from 2019 dont state that the drain needed to be 
flushed every year. And, as I noted earlier, BGs policy booklet was clear about what the 
annual service covered. And it didnt include an annual flush. 
I also consider that theres no evidence that the lack of an annual flush between 2020 and 
2022 led to the boiler breakdown. I say this because Ive seen no evidence that the parts 
which were identified as needing replacement in 2022 had failed because the drain hadnt 
been cleaned. 
I acknowledge that Mr G doesnt agree. He said that the BG engineer whod identified the 
breakdown said that the boiler is choked at the back. He felt this was from the rust in the 
radiators that shouldve been flushed through during the annual service. 
BGs engineers notes from March 2022 said that the boiler failed because: Diverter passing 
hydro block jammed. BG told this service that the hydro block/diverter valve is a sealed non-
serviceable item. As such, nothing preventative wouldve been done to this item at the time 
of the service. It said that the part couldve looked perfect at the time of the service but failed 
completely the very next day.
I have no evidence to dispute what BG has told this service on this point. So I cant agree 
that the service of the boiler wouldve impacted this.
Once BG had identified that the boiler needed repair in 2022, it discovered that the parts 
needed for the repair were obsolete. Ive seen the evidence for this. BG then followed the 
terms and conditions of the policy. These said, under the: Whats covered section:
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and:
 its less than seven years old; or
 its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been continuously covered by 
us under either a warranty or HomeCare product
As the boiler couldnt be repaired, and was over ten years old, BG didnt need to contribute 
towards the replacement boiler under the terms of the policy. But, I understand that it 
returned the premium for the 2021/2022 policy year as it hadnt been able to repair Mr Gs 
boiler due to the obsolete parts. I consider that BG acted fairly under the circumstances 
here.
I also considered Mr Gs complaint that BG had continued to charge him for cover it couldnt 
provide. 
Did BG fairly continue to charge Mr G for the cover?I understand that Mr G also wanted to know why BG could still charge him the full insurance 
premium when it knew it couldnt get the parts for his boiler. He felt that if BG knew the boiler 
was obsolete, it knew it couldnt fulfil its obligations to repair it. 
BG said that it had told Mr G in 2015 that his boiler was on a reduced parts list. It also noted 
that Mr Gs Annual Service Renewal Documents had stated that certain parts might not be 
available for his boiler. 
From what Ive seen, Mr Gs annual service renewal documentation confirmed that his boiler 
manufacturer stopped making his boiler a while ago. And noted that some parts were difficult 
to source. But I dont agree that this shouldve meant BG stopped covering Mr Gs boiler. I 
say this because it couldn't have known whether a part was obsolete or not until it was 
needed. For example, it was able to source and replace a part in September 2020. And 
when it became clear that the boiler couldnt be repaired due to the two required parts being 
unavailable, BG returned that years premiums. 
Overall, Ive found no evidence that BG failed to carry out the annual services appropriately. 
Or that the boiler needed replacing because of something BG did wrong. And Im satisfied 
that BG has acted fairly by reimbursing Mr G for the 2021/2022 policy year. And offering to 
further reimburse him £65 for the 2020 annual service. Therefore I can't uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman