DRN-1234576
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about their mortgage with Skipton Building Society. They say 
Skipton hasnt treated them fairly because it has refused them a new interest rate product 
since their initial five year fixed rate expired in 2012. They say theyve paid too much interest 
as a result. They say they were unable to move the mortgage to another lender and were 
trapped with Skipton.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out their mortgage, secured on rental property, in around 2007. They took 
a five year fixed rate, which expired in 2012. Then and since, theyve applied to Skipton for a 
new interest rate, but Skipton has refused their applications, keeping them on the buy to let 
standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs H say this is unfair and amounts to financial 
discrimination. They say Skipton gives rates to other customers, so it should give one to 
them  but they were rejected because their income wasnt high enough. They say theyve 
paid thousands of pounds more in interest than they needed to.
Skipton said that Mr and Mrs H didnt meet its criteria for a new rate. Our investigator didnt 
think Skipton had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to decide their 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the history of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage, as set out in Skiptons notes 
and in the phone calls between Mr and Mrs H and Skipton.
It seems that when Mr and Mrs H first took out their mortgage, the property was a licensable 
home in multiple occupation (HMO). HMOs are subject to specific legal requirements and a 
licensing regime. As a result, Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage fell within Skiptons commercial 
lending, rather than standard buy to let lending, when it was taken out.
Mr and Mrs H no longer let the property as an HMO, and no longer have a licence. And in 
any case, since the mortgage was taken out, Skipton has stopped offering commercial 
mortgages.
Skipton therefore told Mr and Mrs H that no new interest rates were available for commercial 
mortgages. It simply didnt offer those mortgages any more, so had no preferential rates 
available  because it had no commercial need to attract new, or retain existing, customers. 
However, Mr and Mrs H could re-mortgage to one of its standard buy to let mortgages  
which would allow them to access a new interest rate  if they were eligible for one.
Ive listened to several calls Mr and Mrs H had with Skipton, where they made various 
attempts to do this. But on each occasion, their applications didnt go through, because they 
didnt meet Skiptons buy to let criteria.
There were several difficulties. The maximum loan to value for Skipton buy to let mortgages 
is 75% - but the loan to value on this property was higher than that. Mr and Mrs H had at 
least seven other buy to let properties  but Skipton doesnt generally lend to landlords with 
large portfolios, and has an upper limit of a ratio of overall debt to personal income of ten 
times, which Mr and Mrs H exceeded. For all those reasons, Skipton wasnt prepared to offer 
Mr and Mrs H a buy to let mortgage.
Neither buy to let nor commercial mortgages are regulated, and the loan wasnt secured 
over Mr and Mrs Hs home. This was essentially a business that Mr and Mrs H were running, 
and they were hoping to reduce their expenditure to increase their profits.
Because of the nature of the property when they first took the loan out, it was lent as a 
commercial mortgage subject to commercial mortgage lending criteria and terms and 
conditions. Skipton no longer offers such mortgages. And while that doesnt mean Skipton 
would force Mr and Mrs H to repay, it does mean that no more new preferential interest rates 
were available. I dont think thats unfair. Skipton is entitled to decide that it doesnt want to 
operate in a particular market any more. And Mr and Mrs H were able to explore moving 
their custom elsewhere if they were no longer happy with the terms of their commercial 
finance. They werent subject to an early repayment charge or any penalty for repayment.
One option open to them was to convert the mortgage from commercial lending to buy to let 
lending  as Skipton still offered buy to let lending. But that would have to be as a new buy 
to let mortgage. A buy to let mortgage is a different product to a commercial mortgage, with 
different terms and different risks. 
Skipton no longer wanted to offer commercial mortgages, and its reasonable that it wanted 
new buy to let mortgages to meet its buy to let criteria and risk appetite  rather than its old 
commercial criteria. Skipton is primarily a residential lender, not a specialist buy to let lender, 
and so its risk appetite doesnt extend to landlords with larger portfolios or riskier properties.
Mr and Mrs H didnt meet the buy to let criteria  both because of the loan to value on this 
property and because of their other mortgages relative to their income (along with their other 
debts), as well the total amount of their borrowings. 
I dont agree that this amounts to financial discrimination that was unfair to Mr and Mrs H. If 
their incomes were higher, the amount of debt they could have without exceeding the 
maximum ratio would be higher. But they would still have overall indebtedness, and a loan to 
value, that fell outside Skiptons criteria. And its not discrimination to use income as a factor 
in deciding whether to lend  its standard practice.
Ultimately, this comes down to the risk Skipton is prepared to accept as a lender. There are 
always risks with buy to let property  for example, a problem with tenants paying the rent 
might lead to the mortgage not being paid, or having to be paid out of the borrowers 
personal income rather than the rent. The higher the loan to value, the less the cushion for 
Skipton if something were to go wrong. And the same is true of the level of the borrowers 
other commitments. All of these increase the risk  and in this case increase it beyond 
Skiptons risk appetite.
And while its true Mr and Mrs H were already Skipton customers, they were commercial 
mortgage customers paying a rate that reflected the risk they presented as commercial 
customers and on commercial terms. To move to buy to let terms, and rates appropriate to the risk of buy to let mortgages, its not unreasonable that Skipton expected them to fall 
within the range of risk it was prepared to accept for that product  and they didnt.
So I understand Mr and Mrs Hs concerns here, and why they would rather have paid a 
lower rate in the years since their previous interest rate came to an end. But they didnt meet 
the criteria Skipton had. That wasnt unfair, and Skipton didnt treat them unreasonably  and 
it didnt stand in the way of them exploring options with other lenders. In all the 
circumstances, I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman