DRN-2578157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined 
their claim for legal expenses insurance. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their legal expenses policy in February 2019 for 
assistance with an employment dispute. The policy terms and conditions state that it will 
cover:
The cost of you taking legal proceedings against your employer over your contract of 
employment. As soon as you knew of the dispute, you must have taken and followed 
legal advice from us.
RSA declined the claim because it said Mr and Mrs M were not employees but servants of 
the Crown. It also said their job wasnt covered under a contract of employment, so did not 
meet the policy requirements for cover. 
Mr and Mrs M say that a discrimination case was brought to the employment tribunal and 
upheld on their behalf and a large number of their colleagues. And given that the matter 
concerned potential discrimination, its clear that this is something this can (and has) been 
considered by the Employment Tribunal despite the office held by Mr and Mrs M. 
I appreciate what RSA has said about the potential vagaries around the employment status
of people who work in jobs such as Mr and Mrs M. But I note that in previous cases reviewed 
by this service, weve only accepted that the insurer acted reasonably in declining a claim 
when it had specifically defined employment or contract of employment  which RSA has 
not done in this particular policy. 
Otherwise, our usual approach is to consider the policy terms and conditions and if the term 
isnt defined, wed usually say that someone who is carrying out their duties at work, and is 
being paid to do it, is effectively employed.  The nature of the relationship between Mr and 
Mrs M and their employer works in effectively the same way as a contract of employment. I 
appreciate this may not be the strict legal position as RSA have described it. But on a fair 
and reasonable basis thats how I see this complaint. And in these circumstances (and in the 
absence of any clear policy definition) I dont consider it fair for RSA to regard Mr and Mrs M 
as not being employed. So I think it was unfair of RSA to decline the claim.
In terms of whether there was a contract of employment, Mr and Mrs M are workers that 
this service would generally consider to be employees. I think its accepted that 
Mr and Mrs M could take a case to the employment tribunal. So, I think the attempt to use 
the words contract or contract of employment to decline their claim is unfair and 
unreasonable despite any strict legal definition RSA may refer to. If this were the case, then 
surely RSA would never have sold such a policy to customers like Mr and Mrs M as it 
wouldnt have been of any use to them in relation to their work.
Mr and Mrs M have also said that theyre aware of others in the same job within their group 
legal action (for the same issue) that have had their legal expenses claim covered by their 
insurers. I have no reason to doubt what theyve told us. And Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs Ms colleagues that have had their claims covered have taken out a superior 
type of legal expenses policy. Indeed, the vast majority of legal expenses policies are 
standard within the market. So, given that their other colleagues have had their claims 
covered by other insurers, it suggests that good industry practice is to indemnify these types 
of claims. It also suggests that if RSA was offering a policy that was more limited in scope 
than others in the market, it wouldve needed to point this out at the point of sale to 
Mr and Mrs M.
RSA is entitled to choose which risks it does and doesnt cover, and to have policies that are 
specifically designed to exclude certain claims and certain types of work. And this service 
has seen policies where particular types of work have been specifically excluded. But in this 
case, I dont think RSA has fairly or reasonably shown that the wording excludes cover 
operating for Mr and Mrs M. 
Late notification
RSA have also recently said that Mr and Mrs M didnt notify them in line with the 
requirements of the policy terms and conditions, which states that notification be made within 
six months of the cause of action arising. It said that Mr and Mrs Ms dispute with their 
employer started on 15 December 2015, but that it was not notified until they made a claim 
on 25 February 2019.
I appreciate that notification has not been made within six months as per the policy 
condition. But RSA cannot reasonably decline a claim on the basis of a mere technicality of 
non-compliance with a condition precedent to liability. It has long been the approach of this 
service (and since the Insurance Act 2015  the law) to only give effect to such conditions in 
consumer contracts if the insurer can demonstrate that the policyholders non-compliance 
has materially prejudiced its position. 
Our investigator asked RSA on 18 January 2021 to demonstrate how the late notification 
had prejudiced its position of covering Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses. However, despite 
chasing RSA to respond, no response was received by the insurer. Ive therefore seen 
nothing to suggest that its position has been prejudiced by the late notification, so Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for it to decline the claim on this basis either.
In summary, I do not think any of the above reasons cited by RSA can fairly be relied upon 
to decline Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses claim. So I think a fair outcome would be for RSA 
to reconsider their claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ms legal expenses claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman