DRN-3076610
The complaint
Mr M complains about the cash benefit AXA PPP Healthcare Limited paid him for a claim he 
made on a personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a personal private medical insurance policy with AXA on 31 March 2018. The 
policy renews on the 31 March of each subsequent year. Mr Ms policy includes 
comprehensive cancer cover. 
Unfortunately, on 4 March 2020, Mr M was diagnosed with bowel cancer. And on 10 March 
2020, his consultant recommended that he undergo six-weeks of radiotherapy alongside 
chemotherapy tablets.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. 
Subsequently, on 16 March 2020, the UK government advised citizens to stop all 
nonessential travel and social contact. And on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was 
imposed by the UK government. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-
19, private medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. 
As a result of the diversion of private medical facilities, Mr M underwent radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy treatment on the NHS, rather than privately. His cancer cover included a cash 
benefit of £50 per day if a policyholder underwent radiotherapy or chemotherapy on the 
NHS, up to an annual limit of £2000. As a result of Covid-19, AXA increased the daily benefit 
amount to £150. Mr M underwent 28 days of treatment in total and he made a claim for cash 
benefit under the policy.
AXA paid Mr M a total of £2000 cash benefit, as it said hed reached the annual limit. Mr M 
was unhappy with the amount hed been paid, as he felt he should be entitled to £4200  
which was equal to 28 sessions at £150 per day. AXA maintained its stance though. It said 
that its website made it clear that the £2000 annual limit wouldnt change. And it also said 
that Mr M had benefited from the increase in the daily limit. Thats because if the standard 
£50 per day rate had applied, Mr M wouldve only been paid a cash benefit of £1400.
Mr M remained unhappy with AXAs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. He 
said hed paid for cancer cover and when he needed to claim on it, AXA couldnt provide 
private treatment. He also felt that AXA had benefited disproportionately from the pandemic. 
And he didnt think AXAs response to Covid-19 was in line with the regulators guidance. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt the policy terms 
made it clear that the cash benefit limit was subject to an annual limit of £2000. She thought 
AXAs website had explained that the annual limit wouldnt change, despite the daily rate 
increase. And she also considered that Mr M had benefited from the daily rate increase in 
the cash benefit. In addition, she didnt think AXA could be held responsible for the diversion 
of private medical services during the pandemic. She explained that AXA had made a 
customer promise that if the combined value of claims paid between 2020 and 2021 fell 
below that of 2019 as a result of the pandemic, it would refund its members in proportion to 
their premiums paid compared to 2019.
Mr M disagreed. He didnt think the investigators assessment addressed the level of service 
hed received from AXA. He didnt think the pandemic was relevant to his particular claim 
and that AXAs customer promise was intended to justify the embarrassment of excess 
profits. He felt AXA shouldve had a contingency to deal with the risk of upheaval to its 
business  but it had simply made a token gesture in the form of increases to its cash 
benefit. He hadnt been able to access private medical treatment, which had been the point 
of taking out the policy. Thats what hed paid his premiums for.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I think AXA has treated him fairly. Ill 
explain why.
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with AXA 
as well as other relevant considerations such as the law and industry guidance. 
Has AXA fairly settled Mr Ms cash benefit claim?
Its clear that immediately following Mr Ms diagnosis of bowel cancer, private medical 
facilities were diverted to support the NHS in its response to Covid-19. This meant that Mr M 
wasnt able to undergo treatment privately, as hed reasonably hoped and expected to do 
and so he had to undertake chemotherapy and radiotherapy sessions on the NHS. I 
appreciate what a worrying time this mustve been for Mr M and I dont doubt how frustrated 
he was when he couldnt undergo chemotherapy and radiotherapy privately.
In cases where a policyholder undergoes chemotherapy and radiotherapy on the NHS rather 
than privately, and that treatment wouldve otherwise been covered, AXAs terms state it will 
instead pay a cash benefit. The policy says:
If you have day-patient or out-patient radiotherapy or chemotherapy on the NHS, and your 
plan would have covered that treatment, we will make a cash payment to you of £50 a day, 
up to a maximum of £2,000 a year. We will also make a cash payment for in-patient 
treatment on the NHS (as well as out-patient and day-patient radiotherapy or 
chemotherapy).
This term is also set out on Mr Ms policy schedule. I think then that AXAs made it clear that 
the annual cash benefit limit is £2000.
But as a response to Covid-19, AXA made a commercial decision to increase the daily cash 
payment from £50 to £150. It set out this increase on its website and explained how it would 
be supporting its customers during the pandemic. The website set out the increase and in 
what circumstances it would be payable. But it also stated: The overall cash benefit limits 
have not increased; just the amount per night or per treatment.
AXA has also shown us that a link to its Covid-19 information wouldve been included on Mr 
Ms online account. I think AXA made it sufficiently clear that the overall cash benefit limits would still apply, 
despite the increase to the daily rate. In this case, Mr M claimed for 28 chemotherapy and 
radiotherapy sessions at a rate of £150 per day. This would total £4200. However, Mr M 
exceeded the annual limit for payment after hed undergone 14 sessions. So I think AXA was 
reasonably entitled to cap the payment at £2000, in line with the terms of the contract, once 
Mr M had reached the maximum annual limit.
Its clear Mr M feels that AXA has benefited financially from maintaining the annual limit. In 
my view though, Mr M has benefited from the increase to the daily cash benefit. I say that 
because had AXA not made a decision to increase the limit from £50 per day, Mr M wouldve 
only been paid a total cash benefit of £1400 for the entirety of his treatment. The increase to 
the daily amount meant that in fact Mr M was paid £600 more than he was entitled to under 
the terms of his contract.
This means then that I dont think AXA needs to pay Mr M any further cash benefit.
Is Mr M entitled to any refund of premium?
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy say his plan is for one year and that premiums 
must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are intended to 
cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. An insurer is 
entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that time, even if no 
successful claim has been made under the policy. AXA provided cover under Mr Ms policy 
between 31 March 2020 and 31 March 2021. Its clear that Mr M did make a successful 
claim on his contract. But even if he hadnt, AXA is entitled to retain the premium it charged 
to cover the risk of him making a claim during the policy year. 
I dont think its accurate to say Mr Ms policy was unusable. Depending on the type of 
medical treatment or services he required, AXA couldve pre-authorised other necessary 
treatment to be carried out at a later date. While I appreciate Mr M urgently required cancer 
treatment and therefore, sought treatment on the NHS, he did have access to, amongst 
other things, the enhanced cash benefits Ive set out above, as well as remote consultations. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control. AXA doesnt own or 
operate the vast majority of the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of 
insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of 
AXAs control. 
This means I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require AXA to refund any premiums to Mr M. AXAs has told us that its committed to 
comparing the combined value of claims paid in 2020 and 2021 with the value of claims paid 
in 2019. And if the combined value of claims paid has fallen, it will refund its members the 
difference in proportion to the premiums theyve paid.  I dont think this is an unfair position 
for AXA to take. I say that because its agreed to pass on any unusual financial benefits to its 
members to recognise the impact Covid-19 had had on their ability to use their policies as 
usual. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ms position, Im satisfied AXA has settled his cash 
benefit claim fairly. And I dont find AXA is required to pay Mr M any refund of premium.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman