DRN-1882983
 
The complaint
Mr F complains that Phoenix Life Limited wrongly sold him a life insurance policy in 1984 
when he was looking to invest in a pension-linked policy. While Phoenix recently accepted 
that hed had no apparent need for life cover and agreed to refund his premiums (plus 
interest) he didnt believe its offer reflected how much he would have earned if hed invested 
this money in a pension pot.
What happened
An investigator at this service felt Phoenixs offer was fair and reasonable as there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to safely say that Mr F would have invested his money in a pension, let 
alone what returns he might have got. In this context, he thought a return of premiums plus 
interest was appropriate.
Mr F did not agree, reiterating that he had intended to start paying into a pension and for a
long while thought this was the product hed been sold. This offer didnt reflect how much he
would have got if given appropriate advice.
He also said that the policy was currently worth over £28,000 but Phoenixs offer was just 
over £18,000 i.e. £10,000 less. This means Phoenix, having admitted it made a mistake, far 
from being punished is benefiting to the tune of £10,000 for mis-selling this policy to him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
As Phoenix has accepted that there isnt sufficient evidence to safely conclude that this was 
an appropriate recommendation, I have not considered this issue. Instead, I have solely 
considered whether its compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
I fully understand why it offered to refund the premiums (plus interest) as it couldnt be 
certain what Mr F would have done with this money instead. But, on balance, I think the 
evidence does indicate that Mr F would have chosen to invest this money in some form of 
pension plan and therefore it is more appropriate to pay redress based on this reasonable 
assumption.
As its impossible to know which particular product or set of funds Mr F would have invested 
in  and therefore what return he would have got on his money  I believe redress should be 
based on the standard investment return formula applicable to sales from 1983. That is, the 
Bank of Englands based rate plus 1%. Some investments/products will undoubtedly have 
enjoyed a greater return and others a lesser return but I am satisfied this represents a 
reasonable basis for calculating potential investment loss.This formula is equally valid where a customer would have paid the money into a risk-based 
pension plan, which is simply a form of investment placed within a pension wrapper. If Mr F 
chooses - and is able given the various limits that apply - to put this lump sum into a pension 
it could enjoy similar tax benefits to those applicable if the money had been invested in a 
pension all along. I cannot say if these will be the same but I am satisfied this form of 
redress is fair and reasonable.
This redress means Phoenix does not need to deduct tax from the award unlike the 8% 
interest formula.
That said, having done a rough calculation, this formula only offers Mr F a marginally greater 
sum than the amount Phoenix has already offered. I say this merely so Mr F is aware that 
this will not deliver anything close to £28,000, the amount he has asked for.
While the current sum assured of Mr Fs life insurance policy is around £28,000, this does 
not mean this is the accumulated value of his investment pot or its cash-in value; merely how 
much Phoenix would currently pay to his dependents should he die. So it is not the case that 
Phoenix is somehow making £10,000 via this settlement.
Finally, my proposed compensation formula would mean Mr F surrendering the policy
without value.
Both parties accepted my view about the revised compensation.
Putting things right
I am satisfied the proposed redress set out in my provisional decision is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct Phoenix Life Limited to repay the premiums Mr F has 
paid and add interest at the rate of the Bank of England's base rate plus 1% from the date 
each premium was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint. This is on the basis that 
Mr F agrees to surrender the policy without value.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman