DRN-3390503
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include the agents it has appointed to administer claims on its 
behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The policy 
renewed in July 2019. Mr and Mrs B were due to travel abroad on a skiing holiday, to a 
country which Ill call F, in April 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 as a pandemic. On 15 
March 2020, the government in F announced that all ski resorts would be closed with 
immediate effect until further notice. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth 
and Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel abroad. And, on 23 March 2020, the UK 
government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as 
lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other 
than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
On 27 March 2020, Mr and Mrs Bs airline cancelled their upcoming flights. So, Mr and Mrs 
B made a claim under their policy with Great Lakes for their other non-refundable costs. 
Great Lakes said the claim wasnt covered because the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim werent listed as insured reasons for cancelling a holiday under their policy, and also 
because their policy contained an exclusion for cancellation claims arising from prohibitive 
regulations set by any government. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to Great Lakes before bringing the matter to the 
attention of our service. One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said he 
didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been referred 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. 
When making my decision, I can only have regard to the individual circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Bs specific complaint. The fact that other customers who hold different insurance 
policies with different terms and conditions might have had similar claims paid isnt relevant 
to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Nor is the volume of claims relating to Covid-19 
which Great Lakes may have paid to other customers under similarly branded policies. I 
dont think its correct for Mr and Mrs B to assume that Great Lakes paid no claims relating to 
Covid-19 under policies like this one. Customers who purchased additional Enhanced Trip 
Disruption Cover may have had claims arising from the pandemic paid by Great Lakes but, 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, I can only take into account the terms and 
conditions of the policy which they held. 
I appreciate the situation which Mr and Mrs B found themselves in was unprecedented and 
outside of their control, and that theyve been left out-of-pocket by a considerable amount of 
money. I understand Mr and Mrs B werent the ones to cancel their trip and they were 
effectively left with no choice but not to travel. However, when making my independent and 
impartial decision about this complaint I must be fair to both Great Lakes as well as to Mr 
and Mrs B, and I need to have regard to the fact that the circumstances that unfolded 
surrounding Covid-19 were also unanticipated and unforeseen by insurers. 
Insurance policies dont cover every situation and the level of cover available under travel 
insurance policies can vary widely. An insurer is entitled to decide what level of risk it wishes 
to accept in return for the payment of a premium and it doesnt form part of my remit to tell 
an insurer what cover I think it should offer. It was up to Mr and Mrs B to ensure they had a 
level of insurance cover in place which met their needs, and Great Lakes was under no 
obligation to subsequently amend the terms of the annual contract it entered into with Mr and 
Mrs B in July 2019. 
Ive accessed the terms and conditions of the contract which Mr and Mrs B held with Great 
Lakes. Im satisfied that these terms and conditions where the ones in force at the time Mr 
and Mrs B bought their policy. 
Section A of the policy says Great Lakes will pay for certain non-refundable costs if a trip is 
cancelled for one of a list of specific, insured reasons. But Mr and Mrs Bs trip wasnt 
cancelled for any of the listed reasons which are set out in the policy. Furthermore, Section 
A of Mr and Mrs Bs policy specifically says Great Lakes will not pay for claims arising from:
 o) prohibitive regulations by the government of any country 
Based on the information Ive seen, I think Mr and Mrs Bs trip didnt go ahead because their 
flight was cancelled. I think this is likely to have been due to the travel restrictions imposed 
by the government in the UK and/or in F. So, not only is the reason for Mr and Mrs Bs claim 
not covered as a listed, insured event under their policy, I think the circumstances of their 
claim are specifically excluded from cover anyway because of the above-mentioned 
exclusion. 
Ive considered the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, but I dont think the level of 
cover they bought provided any cover for the circumstances they ultimately found 
themselves in. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B. But their claim isnt covered under the terms and 
conditions of their policy and I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I 
could fairly ask Great Lakes to accept their claim. 
So, I wont be directing Great Lakes to do anything further. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman