DRN-1724612
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) have failed to satisfactorily explain to him why they 
suspended his credit card in 2019.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and TSB, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any detail. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
On the 30 May 2019 Mr M made a cash payment in branch to his credit card account. 
Unfortunately, the cashier keyed in his account number incorrectly and the payment wasnt 
credited to his account. That resulted in a late payment fee and interest being added to Mr 
Ms account. Mr M notified TSB that the payment hadnt been allocated to his account, when 
he found out on the 13 June. The late payment charge and interest were refunded, and a 
trace commenced to find the payment, being ultimately found on the 27 June. Sadly, the 
account had been blocked from the 7 June although TSB had not told Mr M that. When his 
account was unblocked, he was not told that either. 
TSB investigated the complaint and upheld it, paying Mr M £100 in compensation, which he 
accepted. However, he remained unhappy with the explanation he had received as to why 
his account had been suspended and so brought a complaint to this service to see if we 
could assist. An investigator looked into the complaint, and having done so, concluded that 
although there had been poor service by TSB, the amount of compensation TSB paid to Mr 
M was enough to put things right. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have considered both sides views in considering whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably. 
Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I must make an 
independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done 
here. 
TSB has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it should compensate Mr 
M. And so, it paid Mr M £100. Following our investigators view, Mr M expressed the view that he had been given only vague answers of unspecified errors and asked if this service 
could find out how and why this problem' arose.
From my reading of the evidence, TSB have acknowledged they made an error in 
processing Mr Ms payment and have explained that it was through an operator mis-keying 
his account number. They have characterised that as a human error, and I think that is a fair 
description. Sadly, within any organisation where there is human input, there is always a risk 
of human error, and that is what has happened here. TSB have explained to this service that 
this error, then led to the automatic system response of blocking his card on the 7 June, as it 
appeared to the system that no payment had been made. In other words, the system was 
detecting that there had been no payment credited to Mr Ms account, despite him having 
actually made a payment.
As this was an automatic action, without input from TSB staff, it is unfortunate that TSB did 
not become aware of it until Mr M told them. 
I am not certain, from my reading of Mr Ms response to our investigator, whether he was  
unhappy with the level of compensation paid to him, or whether he was seeking just greater 
clarification as to why his account had been suspended. In the event that it was both, I shall 
address the issue compensation now.
Ive considered what else TSB did beyond paying the £100 in compensation. I see that they 
apologised for their mistake and refunded the interest and late payment charge. They also 
advised the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse entries on his credit file, 
because the late payment was their error, not Mr Ms. I also note that they paid Mr M £7 for 
his expenses including going into the branch on two occasions.  They also asked Mr M to tell 
them if he thought this wasn't sufficient, but he did not respond on that point. 
Ive considered the level of awards this service has made in similar cases, and Ive also 
considered, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to have had on Mr M. In 
that sense Mr M fortunately found out about his card being blocked before he used it and 
suffered the embarrassment of it being declined. And, all in all, it took TSB 11 days to find 
the payment and credit his account once they had been notified. His account was then 
reinstated although Mr M says he was never advised of this.
When we consider making awards of compensation, we do so to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused to a customer. But any award for the trouble and upset caused needs to be 
balanced and measured against the ups and downs we all face in daily life when dealing 
with other people, businesses and organisations, and recognising that that can be 
inconvenient and at times things do go wrong. 
So, putting all of this into the balance I think what TSB paid is fair and reasonable, and I 
think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, and whilst TSB have 
indeed made errors, I cant say TSB has subsequently acted unfairly or unreasonably here 
and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
TSB has already paid £100 to settle this complaint, and that is fair and reasonable. So, my 
final decision is that I dont require TSB to do anything else.
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against TSB Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman