DRN-3467926
The complaint
Mrs D complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt treat her fairly when she experienced financial 
difficulties.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decisions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs D had loan, credit card and current accounts with Lloyds. In 2020 Mrs Ds household 
income was impacted by the pandemic. In late 2020 she spoke to Lloyds. She explained her 
situation and Lloyds explored what support it could offer. There were, broadly, two options:
Option 1  enter a six-month reduced payment plan and then, if its stuck to, consider 
a consolidation loan, meaning Mrs D would have one affordable repayment to make 
each month. The overdrafts on Mrs Ds current accounts wouldnt be impacted.
Option 2  close and default the loan and credit card accounts. This would impact 
Mrs Ds credit file, but no further interest or charges would apply, and lower 
repayments would likely to be accepted. The overdrafts on Mrs Ds current accounts 
wouldnt be impacted.
Mrs D chose option 1. I find both options were appropriate, in theory. In practice, however, 
option 1 wasnt going to work. This was because Lloyds wasnt going to agree the 
consolidation loan, for various reasons, including: the size of the combined debt, one of the 
overdrafts was held jointly with Mrs Ds husband, and one of the loans was nearing its end. 
Lloyds ought reasonably to have known this before offering option 1. 
When the six-month reduced payment plan came to an end Mrs D was understandably 
disappointed to find she was back to square one, with no clear way of managing her Lloyds 
debts. She also found her overdrafts had been withdrawn which put her in a difficult position 
as she relied on them to pay her bills.
Lloyds accepted it let Mrs D down. It closed the loan and credit card accounts, and it 
reinstated the overdrafts on the current accounts. Lloyds has also confirmed no interest or 
charges were applied to the loan or credit card accounts from late 2020 onwards. Lloyds 
has, therefore, put Mrs D in the position - or as close as practically possible to the position - 
she would have been in, had she taken option 2. It follows Im not going to require Lloyds to 
make any changes to Mrs Ds accounts.
Lloyds did, however, cause Mrs D a great deal of distress and inconvenience at what was an 
already difficult time for her. There are also some minor customer service failings to 
consider, which Im aware of but havent specifically commented on as theyre not in dispute. 
Compensation is appropriate here. Lloyds paid Mrs D £500 to resolve the complaint. Mrs D 
considers this payment a gesture of goodwill, not compensation. I find it was a compensation 
payment in recognition of distress and inconvenience Mrs D was caused, or to use Lloyds 
wording, to say sorry we didnt give you better service and for any unnecessary upset 
weve caused. I find £500 compensation a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances. 
It follows Im not going to require Lloyds to pay more.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC let Mrs D down, but its done enough to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman