DRN-2853184
The complaint
Mr M complains that First Underwriting Limited should pay his claim on a motor insurance 
policy.
What happened
The subject matter of this complaint is a luxury SUV with a 65 registration plate. In October 
2019, a dealer supplied the vehicle to Mr M. He had the vehicle subject to an agreement with 
a finance company.
In May and June  2020, there was a series of short-term insurance policies for the vehicle 
with First Underwriting. In May 2020, Mr M took out two such policies. In May and June 
2020, his friend Mr R took out two such policies. Finally, Mr M took out a such a policy for 
the period 20 to 25 June 2020.
On the evening of 24 June 2020, Mr M reported that someone had stolen the vehicle from 
outside his place of work. in July 2020, police found the vehicle  in pieces.
Mr M complained to First Underwriting that it had turned down his claim. Unhappy with that, 
Mr M brought his complaint to us without delay. By a final response dated 8 January 2021, 
First Underwriting turned down the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that First 
Underwriting had reason to be concerned about the circumstances of the theft, given the 
evidence it had to consider. He said the insurers reasons included the following:
Inconsistent information regarding the recollection of Mr Ms relationship with Mr R.
The insurance type selected.
The second fob Mr M provided was a blank.
The CCTV footage which does not seem to show evidence of a typical theft of this 
nature.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He and Mr R didnt give different accounts.
He took out insurance on the SUV for the days he would have his daughter.
The dealer supplied the fob.
The CCTV cameras come on when there is movement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive taken into account the witness statements of Mr M and his friend Mr R. 
I have to decide - on balance - what is likely to have happened.
I consider that there were differences in the way Mr M and Mr R described the history of their 
relationship  particularly before Mr Rs release from prison.
Insurers expect to see continuous insurance of a vehicle. And most finance agreements 
require such insurance. So  whilst I accept Mr Ms statement that he only insured his 
vehicle when he needed it to transport his daughter -  I consider that it was reasonable for 
the insurer to regard the repeated short-term insurance as unusual.
Insurers expect to see two key fobs for a vehicle - particularly a high-value vehicle - stolen 
without one of those fobs. Mr M provided one fob and (after some delay) provided a second 
 which was a blank. It would be unusual for a dealer to have supplied the vehicle with a 
blank fob and the dealer has said that wouldnt have happened. So  on balance   I 
consider that it was reasonable for the insurer to regard Mr Ms blank fob as unusual.
I accept Mr Ms explanation that the cameras stopped filming when there was no movement. 
But the CCTV footage doesnt show how the culprits opened the vehicle or started its 
engine.
Taking the evidence together, I dont consider that the insurer treated Mr M unfairly by 
turning down his claim for the theft of the vehicle.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct First Underwriting Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman