DRN-2874045
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have declined a claim for theft on 
the motor insurance policy he held and voided the policy. Hes also unhappy this has been 
recorded on external databases which means its more expensive for him to now get 
insurance. Mr B also complains about how Admiral treated him during the claim.  
What happened
Mr B held a motor insurance policy with Admiral. His car was stolen from a car park near to 
where he worked. He reported this to Admiral to make a claim under his motor insurance 
policy. Mr B was asked a number of questions at the time, including how many keys he was 
provided with when he first purchased the car. He answered one key and confirmed he still 
had this with him. He reconfirmed this the following day.
The car was recovered by the police some days later. It had a key with it and there was no 
sign of forced entry. Mr B provided a statement to Admiral. At this time, he said he had 
purchased the car from his father, and there was a spare key which was kept at his fathers 
house. He added that he hadnt been given it by his father, which was why he had answered 
that he only had one key. Mr B and his father were unable to locate the spare key. Mr B sent 
the key he had to Admiral. 
Admiral had experts examine both keys. The experts thought they were most likely the 
original keys provided with the vehicle when it was first registered because of the coding 
used and the wear on both keys. This meant Admiral thought it was most likely the key found 
in the car once it was recovered was the one which had been in Mr Bs fathers possession.
Admiral said Mr B hadnt been truthful when it had been investigating the insurance claim. 
It said this was a deliberate attempt to mislead it regarding the circumstances of the claim. 
Because of this, it turned down Mr Bs claim and voided his policy. And it recorded the claim 
as fraudulent on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)  a database where insurers 
share information such as this. Admiral also confirmed it wouldnt return Mr Bs premium and 
would seek to recover any costs it had incurred. 
Mr B complained to Admiral. He said he had provided information he thought was truthful. 
When hed bought the car from his father, hed only been given one of the keys. The other 
key had been left with his father, so his answer that hed only been provided with one key 
was truthful. Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It thought Mr B had either left the spare key 
in the car, or someone who had access to the spare key had taken the car. Admiral said 
Mr B wasnt honest about the circumstances of the theft, so its decision remained the same. 
But it did accept its customer service couldve been better and offered £100 compensation 
for this.
Unhappy with this response, Mr B referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into it. She thought it most likely Mr B had provided false information to 
Admiral, so she felt it was entitled to void his policy as it had done. She noted Admiral had 
offered £100 for delays in its complaint process, and she thought this was fair. She didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B didnt accept this and responded in detail to our investigators view. He said, in 
summary:
The thought of there being a second key didnt enter his head, as hed never used it 
since hed owned it.
He clarified that there was a second key voluntarily when giving his statement to 
Admiral.
Admiral shouldve been more specific about the questions it was asking him.
It was factually incorrect to say he had two keys, as one was in his fathers 
possession.
There was only suspicion of fraud, no hard evidence. So, Admiral shouldnt record 
this on external databases.
There were other explanations as to how another key was found in the car.
That he didnt act negligently or act to defraud Admiral.
Mr B asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to 
me to consider and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has presented his complaint to us in great detail. And hes also responded to our 
investigators opinion in the same level of detail. Our service has a quick and informal remit. 
This means that, whilst Ive read and considered everything Mr B has said, I may not 
address each and every point hes made. Nor will I respond in the same level of detail hes 
presented his complaint in. Instead, Ill focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to 
be  Admiral voiding his policy and recording this as a fraudulent claim on external 
databases. I hope Mr B realises I mean no disrespect by this  it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. 
I also note that Mr B has referred to a lot of the evidence and findings made being based on 
what is more likely or the balance of probabilities, rather than facts or proof. If circumstances 
are disputed, or there isnt hard evidence or proof, then we are required to make a finding on 
the balance of probabilities. That is, what we consider more likely than not to have happened 
given the information we do have. Ill explain in more detail below how Ive used this to come 
to the conclusions I have.
The wording of the policy Mr B held says:
We will not pay a claim which is in any part fraudulent, false, exaggerated or if you or anyone 
acting for you makes a claim in a fraudulent or false way, or where we have been given a 
false statement, or any documents which are false or stolen. Your policy and all other 
policies to which you are connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will 
seek to recover any costs that have been incurred and will not return any premium.
This is the term Admiral has used to decline his claim and void his policy. 
The statement provided by the locksmith appointed by Admiral explains that, in their opinion, 
the key found in the car is most likely the second key which was provided when the vehicle 
was first bought. Its based this on the fact that the mechanical key codes are identical  and 
this is out of 2,500 possibilities. And that both keys had wear and tear from regular use and were programmed to Mr Bs car. Mr B has given other possibilities about how this may have 
happened, such as there having been a third key when the car was first registered. But I also 
need to take into account that Mr Bs father did have another key, which now cannot be 
found. 
Whilst I dont know the circumstances which led to the key being there, I think Admirals 
conclusion that its more likely than not that the key found in the car when it was recovered 
by the police, was the second key which had been in Mr Bs fathers possession is 
reasonable. And  as Ive said - I think this would give Admiral reasonable cause to believe 
on the balance of probabilities  that the inaccuracies in Mr Bs account of the keys were 
most likely linked to this. I also think this would give Admiral reasonable grounds to conclude 
that Mr B knowingly provided inaccurate information in order to misrepresent the 
circumstances of the claim in order to get the claim paid. 
Considering all of this, I think Admiral was entitled to take the decision to decline the claim, 
void the policy and add this information to the CUE database. And in the circumstances, I 
dont think it would be appropriate for me to tell Admiral to pay the claim or change the entry 
on CUE.
Moving on to the handling of the claim. Mr B has complained about a number of points in 
relation to this. However, most of these do lead us back to the fact that the claim was 
declined and the policy voided. So, Im not going to address them in detail here because I 
think Admiral was entitled to take this action. 
That said, I accept there were times when Admiral may not have progressed the claim and 
subsequent complaint as efficiently as it could have done. I know Mr B says that he isnt 
happy with the manner in which the investigation was conducted, he felt like he was being 
interrogated. And to some extent Mr B was given that Admiral was trying to establish 
whether his claim, and the information to substantiate it, was genuine and truthful. And as 
Ive explained above, I dont think he did always provide accurate and correct information. 
So, I think the process Admiral went through wasnt unreasonable overall.  
Mr B also took offence when he was asked if he was dyslexic. But I think this was likely 
Admiral trying to make sure he understood the statement he was giving and the information 
he was being asked. So, I think it was a reasonable question.
Overall, this was always likely to be a stressful time given Mr B had had his car stolen. 
Admiral has accepted it couldve provided better customer service at times and has offered 
£100 in recognition of this. I think this is fair, so I wont be asking it to do anything further in 
this regard. 
My final decision
Whilst I recognise Mr B feels very strongly about this matter, my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman