DRN-2412632
The complaint
Mr B complained that TSB Bank plc sent letters and his new debit card to his old address 
despite having previously informed them that he had moved.
What happened
Mr B was concerned that he hadnt received a replacement debit card when his old card 
expired in February 2020. So, he contacted TSB on at least two occasions to find out where 
his card was.
Mr B decided to raise the matter as a complaint with TSB on 16 March 2020. TSB replied to 
Mr B by email on the same day. They told Mr B that they had two address for him and that 
his new card had been sent to his old address.
TSB apologised for their mistake and asked him to confirm which of the two addresses they 
held was the correct one. They paid £150 compensation into his account and offered to 
cover any reasonable out of pocket expenses hed incurred as a result of their mistake.
Mr B replied to TSB and confirmed his current address. TSB arranged for the issued card to 
be cancelled and marked it as lost/stolen. A new card was then issued to Mr Bs correct 
address.
But Mr B was still unhappy. He was concerned that, in addition to his debit card, other letters 
had been sent to his old address. He thought that TSB had breached its data protection 
responsibilities and was worried that his private bank information wouldve been seen by 
other people. He thought that the compensation paid by TSB was not enough in the 
circumstances. He also wanted them to explain what had gone wrong.
Mr B decided to refer his complaint to this service. One of our investigators has looked into 
his complaint. She agreed that TSB had made a mistake here. She explained the 
circumstances that led to TSBs error. But she didnt think that the bank needed to do 
anything more. So, Mr B has asked for his case to be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct aspects to Mr Bs complaint. The first aspect relates to TSBs 
responsibilities under the UK General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Any suspected 
breach of GDPR should be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) who will 
consider whether data protection law has been broken.
The second aspect looks at the mistake that TSB made and any distress, inconvenience or 
financial loss that resulted from this. It is this aspect that I have considered when reviewing 
Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B said that he visited a branch of TSB on 10 March 2017. He wanted to change his 
account with them from a Silver account to a Classic account. At the same time, hed 
provided details of his new address. TSB have agreed that this was the case and that their 
records had been updated correctly.
In April 2018, TSB updated their computer systems. They said that, as a result of this, there 
were a small number of customers that found that their address had reverted to an older 
address in their records. TSBs systems sometimes record two addresses for customers, 
known as a specific address and a residential address. The specific address is used 
where a customer wants correspondence sent to a different address to the one where they 
live. The residential address refers to where they actually live.
In Mr Bs case, these two records were created in error following TSBs computer system 
changes. TSB have told us that Mr B had elected to have all his correspondence sent to him 
using a paperless system. This meant that all letters and statements were sent 
electronically. TSB would email Mr B to tell him when correspondence had been sent. He 
could access these by logging on to the internet banking service provided by TSB. So, this 
meant that no general items were sent in the post to the wrong address.
Although TSBs mistake had the potential to cause Mr B problems with the security of his 
information and bank account, it appears that this risk was reduced by the paperless option 
that Mr B had selected. But other items had been sent to his old address. In particular, his 
replacement debit card and a letter sent to him on 4 October 2018 from TSBs Collections 
Team. 
TSB have confirmed that Mr Bs replacement debit card was cancelled as a result of his 
complaint on 16 March 2020. They also confirmed that there hadnt been any unauthorised 
use of this card. So, Mr B suffered no financial loss as a result of this mistake. But he did 
suffer inconvenience and worry. He had no card to use for payments and was left with no 
option but to contact TSB. He said that it took several attempts before the mistake was 
recognised and put right.
TSB said that their Collections Team use a different computer system to the main TSB 
system. Letters from them can often include legal wording. It is therefore necessary that 
these are sent to the last correspondence address held. In this case, the letter was sent to 
Mr Bs old address. There is no evidence that this fell into the wrong hands or resulted in a 
financial loss. But I can completely understand why Mr B would be annoyed and concerned 
here.
TSB have apologised for their mistake although I cant see that they have fully explained to 
Mr B why the mistake occurred in the first place. I hope that my explanation does that, and 
Mr B can be reassured by the steps they have taken to correct their mistake. I think that 
what TSB have said here and what they have done is fair.
TSB have also paid Mr B compensation of £150 and offered to cover any reasonable out of 
pocket expenses he may have incurred in getting the problem corrected. Mr B hasnt yet 
returned to TSB with any expenses claim but he can do so if it is appropriate. But as he 
hasnt done that yet, I cant say that TSB needs to do anything more in this respect.
Its clear that TSBs mistake could have resulted in serious consequences. In particular if Mr 
Bs debit card or details of his account had fallen into the wrong hands. Fortunately, there is 
no evidence that this happened, and I cant see that Mr B suffered financially as a result.
 In the event that Mr B wishes to take matters further as regards a potential breach of GDPR, 
this should be referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As Ive explained 
though, my role here is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a 
complaint. While something has clearly gone wrong, I am pleased that TSB have recognised 
their mistake and the effect that it had on Mr B. Mistakes like this can be extremely worrying. 
I think that the compensation paid by TSB does reflect this. I understand that Mr B will be 
disappointed, but I wont be asking TSB to pay any more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman