DRN-3660285
The complaint and what happened
Mr G complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse over £20,000 he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She was satisfied HSBC ought to have intervened 
when Mr G made his fourth payment towards the scam, as it was unusual and 
uncharacteristic for the account. She asked it to reimburse losses from that point. However, 
she also found Mr G was partly responsible for his losses as he didnt carry out sufficient due 
diligence before deciding to invest and so reduced compensation by 20%.
Mr G agreed the outcome. HSBC asked for several extensions and although granted, it 
hasnt responded to the outcome reached despite being notified the matter was being 
referred to an ombudsman. Im satisfied HSBC has had plenty of opportunity to provide any 
further arguments or submissions and its now appropriate to move this complaint to the final 
stage.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G authorised the transactions. Whilst he didnt intend for his money to go to 
scammers, he is initially presumed liable for the loss. There also doesnt appear to be 
any dispute he has been scammed given there were warnings about the merchants 
from the regulator. 
HSBC is aware of our approach of expecting it to have been monitoring accounts to 
counter various risks, have systems in place to identify unusual transactions or other 
indicators that its customers were at risk of fraud; and in some situations, make 
additional checks before processing payments or declined them altogether to protect 
customers from possible financial harm from fraud or scams.
I have looked at the operation of Mr Gs account in the months leading up to the 
transactions in dispute, I agree with the investigator that I wouldnt have expected 
some of the earlier transactions in dispute to trigger HSBCs fraud alert systems, 
even if they were to a new payee. However, I also agree that a payment for £5,000 
was unusual for the account even if payments were spaced apart a little, as they 
were here. And it was over double the previous highest payment to the trader, made 
just a couple of weeks before. This payment was also made to a new payee that had 
only been set up two weeks prior. Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied HSBCs 
systems ought to have triggered an alert and payments paused pending further 
intervention  such as making enquiries or giving a scam warning. Further some of 
the disputed payments were made more than a month after the regulator had 
published a warning about the traders Mr G paid, and so I think HSBC ought to have 
automatically paused those payments in any event.  
Had HSBC carried out its due diligence and duties and asked Mr G about the 
payments, I have no reason to doubt he would have explained what he was doing. It 
could have provided information on the steps a customer can take to ensure, so far 
as is reasonably possible, they are dealing with a legitimate merchant.  And it could 
have drawn on its knowledge about the high-risk associated with trading, the 
potential for fraud and provided a scam warning. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr G 
would have looked into the opportunity further, and likely would have come across 
the published warnings about the merchant for himself. Im satisfied a warning from 
HSBC would likely have exposed the scam and caused Mr G to stop investing, 
thereby preventing the further loss of £17,000. 
I agree, Mr G is also partly responsible for his loss. It doesnt appear he carried out 
much due diligence before deciding to part with his money, even when being 
persuaded to invest more and more. And given the amount invested, its reasonable 
for independent research to be carried out to be satisfied the investment opportunity 
is genuine. There was information in the public domain that was easy to come by 
about the merchants he was dealing with, which would have put him on notice that 
he was likely being scammed. I therefore agree a reduction in compensation of 20% 
is reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to reimburse Mr 
G £13,600 representing 80% of his losses from the fourth disputed payment. I also require it 
to add 8% simple interest per year, from the date of the payments to the date of settlement, 
less any lawfully deductible tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman