DRN-3284931
The complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have failed to refund over £23,000 that he 
lost to an investment scam between February 2018 and March 2019.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it for the following reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr D authorised the payments of £23,326 he made to the 
fraudulent merchant NB International (NBI) between February 2018 and 
March 2019. And the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions 
given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. 
However, Mr D submits that HSBC ought to have prevented the payments from being 
made due to their unusual nature.
Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr D from falling 
victim to the scam. as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For 
example, if it was particularly out of character. 
In this instance, it isnt in dispute that some of the payments Mr D made were out of 
character, as there were occasions where HSBCs fraud prevention systems were 
triggered and he was contacted by the bank to confirm the payments were genuine. 
Accordingly, it is just a question of whether HSBCs intervention went far enough.
Having considered the extent of HSBCs intervention, Im not persuaded they asked 
enough relevant and probing questions to determine whether or not Mr D was at risk 
of falling victim to a scam. However, even if HSBC had intervened earlier and asked 
further questions about the nature of the payment Mr D was making, Im not 
persuaded it would have likely stopped him from proceeding or have ultimately 
prevented his loss. 
When HSBC did intervene, it prompted Mr D to contact NBI to discuss why his 
payment had been blocked. He said they explained that this happens from time to 
time, and that they reassured him it was nothing to worry about. Mr D said their 
explanation seemed feasible, so he contacted HSBC to request the payment be 
processed. 
Mr D said he had also previously seen that NBI were listed on Companies House, 
and that he had previously looked at online reviews, where he found nothing at the 
time to suggest they were not a legitimate cryptocurrency investment company. He 
said they had offered realistic returns, so there was nothing about the investment that 
seemed like it was too good to be true either. There was also no FCA warning 
published about NBI until 19 March 2019, which was after the last payment Mr D 
made on 26 February 2019. 
So, even if HSBC had intervened earlier and provided Mr D with a scam warning/told 
him to carry out further checks, Im not persuaded that any such further checks he 
could have carried out would have revealed that he was likely falling for a scam. Mr D 
has said himself that there was nothing negative about NBI online at the time, and 
that after calling the merchant he was given a feasible explanation as to why his 
payment had been blocked. Therefore, I dont think HSBCs failure to intervene 
sooner and in more depth can be considered the proximate cause of Mr Ds loss in 
these circumstances, as it seems likely he would have proceeded to pay NBI 
irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr D, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a scam. But for the reasons given above, I dont consider it would be fair 
and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his loss in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman