DRN-3649233
The complaint
Mr B complains that the cost of changing the vehicle on his motor insurance policy was a lot 
more than Hastings Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct (Hastings) had 
previously suggested.
What happened
Mr B had motor insurance arranged via Hastings, a broker. He rang Hastings to ask what it 
would cost to change the vehicle on the policy. Hastings quoted a figure just less than £200. 
Mr B says he bought the vehicle based on this quote, but when he rang Hastings to actually 
make the change the new price was over £1300. Mr B didnt take out insurance for the new 
car with Hastings.
Mr B wasnt happy about this and complained to Hastings. Hastings said when Mr B called 
for the second time to take out the insurance, the existing underwriter declined to cover the 
vehicle as the change details didnt meet the terms the underwriter set. The new quote he 
was given was with a different underwriter. Hastings apologised that a little more information 
wasnt given to Mr B in the first call, and paid him £40 compensation. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. He said as Hastings is a broker it can only provide the quotes that 
insurers are prepared to offer. He said Hastings was therefore not responsible for the 
insurers decision to withdraw its offer.  
Mr B wasnt happy with what the investigator said, so his complaint has been passed to me. 
Mr B wants more compensation from Hastings. He says he wouldnt have bought the car 
had he known how much the insurance premiums would be.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the two phone calls Mr B had with Hastings about the vehicle change. In the 
first call Mr B asked for a quote for insurance for a car he was thinking of buying. He gave 
the call handler the details of the car and he was told it would cost an extra £192.99 to 
change the car on the policy. 
The call handler told Mr B the quote was only available up to 23.59 that day. He made Mr B 
aware a quote on another day would be different. 
A few days later, Mr B called Hastings again and said hed like to set up the insurance hed 
called about previously. The call handler told him that the quote had expired. The call 
handler said he could no longer offer a change of vehicle on Mr Bs existing policy, only a 
new policy. He ran some new quotes with different start dates and the cheapest was 
£1374.90 for a full years cover.
Hastings is an insurance broker. It will take details from a potential customer about the 
vehicle to be insured, and obtain quotes from the various insurers it works with. Hastings 
doesnt set the price of the policy, and it has no control over insurers changing their terms or 
deciding to stop offering certain types of cover.
Mr Bs policy booklet from Hastings said:
A Policyholder of a Single Car policy enters into two separate contracts when taking out a 
Policy through us.
(i) The first contract is between the Policyholder and the Insurer:
The Insurers name is shown on the Policyholders current Certificate of Motor 
Insurance
The insurer is the company providing the Policyholders motor insurance
(ii) The second contract is between the Policyholder and Hastings Insurance Service Ltd 
(Hastings):
Hastings is an insurance broker and arranges and administers the Policyholders 
single Car Policy on behalf of the Insurer.
And:
Your Insurer is named on your Certificate of Motor Insurance and they provide your 
insuranceWe are permitted to set up your insurance contract on behalf of a panel of 
Insurers and we act on your behalf in arranging your contract of insurance for all policies.
And:
Our services include arranging your insurance cover. Well also help you make any changes 
you need, such as amendments to the cover, use and Car insuredIf your original Insurer 
doesnt accept changes youve made to your Policy, where possible well arrange cover with 
an alternative Insurer from our panelWe give you enough information to make an informed 
decision about choosing your insurance Policy. We dont make recommendations or give 
advice
And:
Changes to your Policy will be subject to your Insurer agreeing to them. Some amendments 
may not be acceptable, or may result in different terms, extra costs and/or fees. In some 
cases the additional cost could be significant.
So I think Hastings was clear with Mr B that it was a broker. I also think Hastings was clear 
with him when he first called to request a quote for changing the car that the quote was only 
valid for that day. I can also see from his correspondence with our investigator that Mr B was 
aware the quote might change when he actually came to take out the insurance. 
Its also worth noting that the first quote Mr B was given was to change the car for the 
remaining period of the existing policy, approximately six months. The second quote was 
with a new insurer and was for a full year. Hastings had no control over whether Mr Bs existing insurer chose to offer him cover for his 
new car or not. Hastings also had no control over the quotes other insurers on its panel 
offered. I think Hastings was clear in its communications with Mr B. So Im satisfied that 
Hastings acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Mr Bs query.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. So I wont be asking Hastings 
Insurance Services Limited trading as Hastings Direct to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman