DRN-3489217
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy HiFX Europe Limited wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In late 2020, Mr O began communicating with what he believed was a genuine investment 
company. After speaking at length to a representative of the company, someone Mr O said 
sounded very professional, he was persuaded to purchase shares that the company 
predicted would increase in value. In early 2021, after the companys prediction appeared to 
come true, Mr O made a further payment, supposedly for the purchase of more shares. Mr O 
became concerned because he wasnt able to track his investment or even understand 
exactly what had been purchased with his money. He asked to withdraw his funds from the 
investment, but was met by excuses, threats and demands for more money. Mr O cut off 
contact and realised hed been the victim of a scam.
For both transactions (totalling £86,000) Mr O utilised HiFXs services  exchanging his 
pounds sterling for euros and instructing it to send payments to a bank account in another 
country. 
Mr O had initially attempted to make a payment to HiFX from his business account, but this 
hadnt been accepted due to the name on Mr Os HiFX account not matching the name of 
the account the funds had come from. Mr O applied for a business account with HiFX but it 
declined his application after he explained that the payment he was making was for business 
purposes and that he was using money gathered from several investors to invest in a 
company based overseas. He explained that the business hed originally intended to start 
had been badly hit by the pandemic  so he was restructuring the business to, among other 
things, invest in stocks and shares. In the call where the account opening was discussed, Mr 
O briefly mentioned the name of the fraudulent investment company. 
Instead of using a HiFX business account, a few days later Mr O used his personal HiFX 
account to make the first payment (and the second a few months later).
Mr O complained to HiFX that it hadnt asked him any questions about the payments he was 
making, despite his young age and the large sums involved. He compared its actions to his 
bank, which it said would contact him before processing even low value payments. 
HiFX said that it had simply followed his instructions in making the payments and, though it 
had attempted to recall his money, those attempts were unsuccessful.
One of our investigators didnt uphold his complaint. They were of the view that there was 
nothing about the payments that stood out as being out of the ordinary and they didnt think 
the conversation prior to the first payment should have put HiFX on notice of a potential 
scam as it was in relation to the separate matter of opening a business account.
Mr O disagreed, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr O authorised these transactions and that means that under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 he is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HiFX 
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.   
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive first considered whether HiFX should have processed the transactions at all, given that 
they were not comfortable opening a business account for Mr O. Their concerns were not, 
however, that he might be falling victim to a scam, but rather about the way his business was 
funded. 
Also, HiFX say that Mr Os personal and business account were not linked under the same 
profile and Ive seen evidence which seems to demonstrate this. So, it doesnt appear there 
was any connection made between the business account application and the personal 
account transactions (at least, not at the time). Given that the personal account and 
business account application were made in different capacities, I dont think they were 
unreasonable not to link the two. 
In any case, had HiFX simply refused to carry out the transactions (without interacting with 
Mr O) it seems unlikely that the loss to him would have been prevented. Theres no reason 
to think he wouldnt have simply used the services of another payment service provider (after 
all it was the fraudsters that had recommended HiFX to Mr O and he doesnt seem to have 
had any particular preference for them).
In order to have any reasonable prospect of preventing the scam, HiFX would have needed 
to provide some sort of warning to Mr O. Such a warning would not necessarily take the form 
of a conversation before the payments went ahead  Id only expect that to happen where 
HiFX had, or ought to have had, concerns Mr O was at risk of financial harm from fraud. So, 
Ive thought about whether it should have intervened and, if it should, what form Id expect 
that intervention to take. 
I note the amounts of the transactions were significant  the first being almost £50,000. But, 
its relevant to consider that due to the nature of HiFXs business customers are more likely 
to use it for occasional high value international transactions. It also had no previous account 
activity to compare the first transaction against  so nothing to suggest that the activity wasnt typical for Mr O. While it did presumably know his age, I dont think this put him at 
particular risk of financial harm. So, overall, I dont think that the activity stood out as being 
particularly suspicious or remarkable.
  
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to say that HiFX ought to have taken into account 
the earlier conversation it had with Mr O in relation to setting up a business account when 
deciding whether to allow these transactions to proceed. But as HiFX dont seem to have 
linked Mr Os personal account and business account application, I cant fairly say this 
should have happened.
 
So, I dont think that there were any particular grounds for HiFX to have thought Mr O was at 
risk of financial harm from fraud but, given the amounts involved, I think it should have 
provided a warning to him in line with good industry practice. 
I note that Mr O was required to input the purpose of each transaction when setting up the 
payments. So, such a warning could and should have been tailored to the stated payment 
purpose.
Mr O chose business payment as the reason for both payments. This was true, of course. 
However, I dont think that, had HiFX given a tailored warning based on this payment 
reason, it would have been particularly relevant to Mr Os situation and, in the circumstances 
of this case, I dont think it would have changed his decision to go ahead.
 
Id expect a warning about a business payment to address the risk of account details having 
been intercepted or changed. It might reasonably also give a general warning about 
ensuring that the recipient of the payment is correct and legitimate and, perhaps, not to 
move money at the request of a bank or other trusted organisation. But, for a warning to 
have had any prospect of dissuading Mr O from making the payment I think it would have 
had to be much more focussed on investment scams, how they work and how to avoid them. 
As there was no reason for HiFX to give such a warning, I dont think it made a mistake by 
not doing so. 
So, while HiFX might have provided a warning based on the payment reason Mr O selected, 
I dont think the activity was so unusual and suspicious that it ought to have discussed the 
payments with him to establish whether he was at risk of financial harm from fraud and, for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont think a written warning would have made a difference to 
his decision to go ahead with the payments, as it wouldnt have been particularly relevant to 
his circumstances. 
Finally, Im satisfied with the attempts HiFX made to try and recover Mr Os money. It 
contacted the bank which received the funds, but that bank said that the beneficiary account 
was closed, and no funds remained.
So, while I know this will be very disappointing for Mr O and I understand the big impact this 
matter has had on him, I dont think HiFX have made a mistake here and I wont be asking it 
to refund the payments he made.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 Rich Drury
Ombudsman