DRN-4029422
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as R, has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim 
after it was forced to close due to Covid-19.
Mr S, a director of R, has brought the complaint on Rs behalf.
What happened
R held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. In January 2021, R contacted RSA 
to make a claim under the business interruption section of the policy, as it said it had been 
caused loss of income as a result of the Governments response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
In January 2021, The Supreme Court had also issued its judgement on the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Business Interruption Insurance test case and RSA reviewed the 
claim in light of this judgment.  
RSA said the policy did not cover Rs claim. It said the policy provided cover for loss due to
closure or restrictions of Rs premises only if a notifiable human disease manifested itself
at the premises. RSA said there was no evidence of a manifestation at the premises and it 
thought that Rs business had been impacted by the Governments imposed restrictions, 
rather than because someone at its premises had Covid-19 and turned down its claim.
RSA also said that all other sections of business interruption cover required damage to the 
property and so would not cover this claim either. 
Mr S contacted RSA again in mid-2022, to ask that the claim be reviewed and provided 
some evidence of an employee being unwell in March 2020. One of its employees had been 
in work on Friday, 6 March 2020 and had been unwell over the weekend with flu-like 
symptoms and then called in sick the following Monday (9 March 2020). The same person 
later had a Covid-19 test, which was positive.  
RSA did not accept that this established a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises at the 
relevant time and maintained its position on the claim. 
Mr S was very unhappy about this and complained to this Service. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter, He did not consider it should be upheld, as
he was satisfied RSA was entitled to refuse the claim for the reasons it had, as there was not 
enough evidence that there had been a manifestation of Covid-19 at the premises, which 
would require having symptoms of Covid-19 while at the premises. 
Mr S didnt accept the Investigators assessment. Mr S has made a number of submissions, 
in response to the Investigator and in the initial complaint. He also provided further evidence 
about the employees symptoms and sickness.  Ive considered everything Mr S has said 
and have summarised his main points below:
The employee had been in work on Friday 6 March 2020 and had become unwell 
over the weekend. As this person was unwell over the weekend, it is likely they had 
symptoms prior to this and when they were last in the office. Being unwell means 
they must have had symptoms.
The reference to becoming unwell over the weekend appears to reference the level 
of illness required to warrant time of work, rather than precluding the existence of 
symptoms on the Friday. 
The symptoms were consistent with Covid-19 and if the fact such symptoms are 
similar to other common diseases were a bar to claim, there would never be a 
successful claim. 
The medical evidence states that symptoms typically appear 3-5 days after infection 
and that a person with Covid-19 may be contagious 48 hours before starting to 
experience symptoms. This means that by [the employee] being in on the preceding 
Friday the disease had manifestly been on the premises. 
He queries the definition of manifestation being applied and says that as the court 
referred to this was being evidential only, then other evidence of infection should be 
considered.  
The employee tested positive for Covid-19 over the weekend, so would have 
manifested the disease when at the premises the day before. 
The court did not define symptoms, so he suggests its reasonable to interpret 
symptoms as having started as soon as the body starts to make changes having 
been infected.  
The employee would also have been symptomatic on 6 March 2020, as the infection 
would have triggered a bodily response, even if they were not aware of it. 
He has provided evidence from two witnesses and the Investigator is suggesting they 
are lying.
R also provided a further email from a manager of its premises, saying the employee had 
been unwell on 5 March 2020, came back in on 6 March and then became worse with 
headaches, chills and extreme tiredness. The employee called in sick on Monday 9 March 
2020 and actually had Covid and was off for 14 days.
The Investigator provided this further evidence to RSA to consider but it did not change its 
position. RSA said the email did not carry much weight as it was provided three years after 
the event and there was still no still no Covid-19 test result or other persuasive evidence of a 
manifestation of Covid-19 at Rs premises. 
As the Investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the impact it has had on Rs business. However, I 
wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business policies provide protection for some of the common things which might happen to a
business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may provide
different cover.
Rs policy provides cover for various losses, including those arising out of business
interruption caused by various events. I have considered the entire policy carefully to see if
RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy whendeclining Rs claim.
The main part of cover I think might be relevant to this claim is an extension to the business
interruption section of cover, headed Disease, Murder, Suicide, Vermin and Pests that 
covers loss as a result of:
A) closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises.
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Rs claim, the
closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a case of
Covid-19 manifesting itself at the premises. For a case to have manifested, I think someone
would either need to have been diagnosed with Covid-19 at the time they were at the 
premises or have displayed symptoms at the premises which, on the balance of 
probabilities, were Covid-19.
The FCA test case did not consider policies with clauses requiring the disease to be at the
premises, only ones where the disease is required to occur within a specified radius of the
premises. The Supreme Court provided some clarity on how a policyholder might establish
that Covid-19 had manifested itself within the required radius as required by those policies
and provided some guidance. Our approach on what the term manifestation means is in line
with what was said in the Supreme Courts judgment.
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic. Also,
the Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying
symptoms of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able
to produce a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to
demonstrate a case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
We therefore consider that it is necessary to take a pragmatic approach, and to consider 
whether evidence (other than a positive test result) can be provided that supports, on 
balance, that Covid-19 manifested at the insured premises. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that they have suffered a 
loss which their policy covers.
The Supreme Court did not define what it meant by the word symptoms but in my opinion, 
the normal understanding of that word would be an indication of the existence of the 
disease. 
The Supreme Court determined that a manifestation of Covid-19 will have occurred if there 
is a positive test or a person has displayed symptoms of Covid-19. Given the use of the 
word displayed I think it is reasonable to interpret this as meaning the person must have 
noticeable symptoms and a manifestation will not be established at the point of infection 
before the person knows they are infected.
I dont agree that the display of symptoms includes unfelt symptoms. If I were to accept 
that symptoms could include unfelt symptoms (i.e. physiological changes in the body that the 
infected person was not aware of) then the term asymptomatic would be redundant.
I also note that the Supreme Court had to determine the meaning of occurrence and 
sustained in relation to disease (which are requirements in some of the policies it was 
asked to consider) and determined that this would be the case if a person is diagnosable 
with Covid-19 whether or not that were symptomatic.1
1 Supreme Court Declarations Order 13 July 2021 The Supreme Court therefore specified that Covid-19 might still have occurred or been 
sustained, even if the relevant person were not displaying symptoms (were asymptomatic)  
at the relevant time, but did not make this statement when declaring what manifestation 
would mean. 
I do not therefore think the Supreme Court intended the term manifestation to be 
interpreted as meaning when a person is infection with Covid-19 but before any symptoms 
became noticeable. 
So while I accept someone might be infected with Covid-19 and not show symptoms or be 
aware of the infection themselves this would not amount to manifestation as required by the 
policy. 
Mr S has provided a contemporaneous screenshot of a sickness record for an unnamed 
employee at Mr Ss premises, which says: Mon 09 Mar - 23 Mar 2020 (11 days) 7 days 
isolation followed by a further 7 days.
There is no information of their symptoms or reason for being off work; and does not confirm 
attendance at the premises with any symptoms. 
Mr S has also said the employee was tested for Covid-19 and suggests this test took place 
on the weekend after she was last at the premises (i.e. 7/8 March 2020) but Ive seen no 
confirmation that a test was carried out and no test result.  
A more recent email dated 21 March 2023 from the same manager that provided the 
screenshot says that the workplace manager  remembers very well that she started 
getting flu-like symptoms on the Thursday 5th March, she stayed and worked and came in 
the  next day even though the symptoms became worse, this continued on the Friday and 
over the weekend, these symptoms were headaches, chills and extreme tiredness. She then 
called in sick on Monday 9th March and she actually had Covid and was off for 14 days.
As far as I am aware, no evidence has been provided from the member of staff that was 
unwell themselves. The more recent email is the first evidence, other than Mr Ss testimony, 
of anyone being unwell while at the premises. However, even if I accept that a member of 
staff was unwell while at the premises on 5/6 March 2020, I do not think it is established that 
they were unwell with Covid-19. 
While a headaches, chills and fatigue are possible symptoms of Covid-19, they are also 
symptoms of a number of other illnesses. And there is no other evidence, as far as I am 
aware, to support that the employees symptom were a manifestation of Covid-19, as 
opposed to any other illness. 
Having considered everything, I do not think there is enough evidence to establish it is more 
likely than not that there was a manifestation of Covid-19 (which Id consider to be someone 
in attendance at the premises displaying symptoms that were likely to be the result of a 
Covid-19 infection) at Rs premises on 6 March 2020. 
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think the extension provides cover in the
circumstances of Rs claim and RSA was fairly entitled to turn down the claim. I appreciate
this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. But, having considered the matter very carefully, 
I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Rs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman