DRN-3548243
Complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her account and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In April 2020, Miss Fs current account received payments of £180.99 and £600 into her 
current account. The funds from the first transfer were used in the course of regular 
spending over the next few days and most of the funds from the second transfer were 
immediately sent on to other accounts. 
Santander subsequently received notifications from the third-party banks, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Fs account, stating that the payees of the funds had reported 
being victims of fraud. As a result of these notifications, Santander reviewed Miss Fs 
account and its investigation led it to decide to close the account and record a fraud 
prevention marker.
After learning about the marker recorded against her sometime later, Miss F complained to 
Santander. Santander looked at Miss Fs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss F remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Fs concerns. She didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss F unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Santander has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss F is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Santander must first be able to show that fraudulent 
funds entered Miss Fs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. 
Secondly, Santander also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss F was 
deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an 
illegitimate payment. This can include Miss F allowing someone else to use her account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Fs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Santander had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Fs account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Santander 
did have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little 
more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Fs 
account in April 2020, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss F was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss F told our adjudicator that she gave her cousin, who was living with her online banking 
details, debit card and personal identification number (PIN). She said she didnt ask her 
cousin why she needed all of this as she was family and lived with her and thought she 
might just have needed these details to get paid.  
Ive thought about what Miss F has said. But what Miss F told our adjudicator directly 
contradicts what she told Santander in the first place. Miss F initially told Santander that the 
first payment was from a friend and the second payment was from her dad. Miss F told our 
adjudicator that the differences in her version of events are due to the time that has passed 
since the activity took place. 
But Miss F was initially questioned about the payments which went into her account a few 
days after this happened. And if Miss F had given her cousin use of the account a few days 
earlier and she expected her to use it for legitimate means, I think its reasonable to expect 
her to have recalled this and told Santander this at the time, rather than guess how and why 
the funds may have arrived in her account.   
Im afraid Miss Fs inconsistency, which makes it difficult to place much weight on what shes 
now saying, together with her inability to provide anything to corroborate being an unwitting 
participant in what took place, means that I cant reasonably conclude she was an unwitting 
participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not Miss F was complicit in her account 
receiving fraudulent funds and then being dispersed.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Fs account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss F was complicit in this. As this 
is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Santander to record a fraud prevention marker 
in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Fs account. The terms and conditions of Miss Fs account 
permitted Santander to close it where it was used in any way to give rise to reasonable 
suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities. Ive already explained why I think Santander 
was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss Fs account had been used for fraudulent 
purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much the same reasons, the terms and 
conditions permitted Santander to close Miss Fs account. And Im therefore not upholding 
Miss Fs complaint on this basis either.
So overall I dont think that Santander acted unfairly towards Miss F and Im not upholding 
this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss F  especially in light of 
the ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her and she feels that others 
who have been involved in what happened havent been penalised. 
But Im only able to consider the circumstances of the dispute before me. And in this case, 
Im limited to considering whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss F, not 
anyone else who may have been involved in the fraudulent activity. So I hope Miss F will 
understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been 
listened to. Furthermore, Miss F might find that shes able to open an account with another 
bank as long as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or 
any such equivalent. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman