DRN-2105362
The complaint
Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc didnt notify him his payment arrangement with it 
was coming to an end. When he called about that, the calls were very long and the call 
handler was rude and he was cut off. 
What happened
Mr S had a payment arrangement with Bank of Scotland to repay his credit card balance. I 
understand the agreement was no interest charged during arrangement and a repayment of 
around £30 a month.  This was agreed in November 2018. When the agreement came to an 
end the account reverted to its normal status and interest was applied. 
Mr S called about what had happened, and he was placed on hold while the call handler 
made enquiries. Those enquiries showed he was sent a letter in September 2019 to explain 
the arrangement had come to an end. Mr S says this wasnt received. He was put through to 
collections to see if there was anything that could be arranged that day. But as he didnt 
want to go through income and expenditure over the phone, it was agreed forms would be 
sent out for his completion. 
Whilst Mr S was being transferred back to the customer priority team for a hold to be put on 
the account, the call connection was lost. 
Mr S called again later that day to complain about the service he received. He complained 
he had been put through to someone outside of the UK and he was cut off. He also 
complained the call had been long and the call handler was rude. Mr S wanted £150 
compensation for what had happened. He was told this wouldnt be offered and his 
complaint would be escalated and a final response issued. The final response didnt uphold 
the complaint in regard to the service provided during the calls, but the bank was willing to 
reimburse call costs on evidence of them being incurred. 
Our investigator didnt think the bank had done anything wrong. Although she agreed the 
calls were long that was due to the nature of what was being discussed and the call handlers 
did update Mr S with what was happening.
Mr S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. He doesnt believe his 
complaint has been handled fairly; he was on the phone for a long time, which caused 
stress, inconvenience and money; he was not informed his arrangement had come to an 
end; he considers the bank has displayed rude behaviour and extremely poor service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about his complaint. But I can only uphold it and award 
compensation if I find the bank has done something wrong, and if because of that Mr S has 
suffered a financial loss and distress and/or inconvenience. 
Mr S initially called as his payment arrangement had come to an end but he wasnt notified 
of that; interest was again being applied to his account. The records indicate Mr S was 
written to in September 2019, and during the calls this was checked as being sent to his 
correct address. The vast majority of correctly addressed mail is correctly delivered. But if he 
didnt receive the letter, I dont think I could fairly find the bank at fault if something went 
wrong after the correspondence left its office. 
I have listened to that initial call and although it may have taken some time, this was 
because the call handler was trying to get the bottom of what had happened and to agree a 
new arrangement. As Mr S wanted a new arrangement, it was right for him to be put through 
to the collections team. I appreciate he didnt want to speak with someone outside of the UK, 
but he didnt say that during the call. Indeed, after explaining they were based abroad Mr S 
confirmed he was happy to continue with the call when he was asked if that was alright. 
The call went on for a few more minutes. Mr S was offered the opportunity to go through 
income and expenditure during the call, but he declined to do this over the phone. Whilst I 
understand Mr Ss reticence to discuss such matters over the phone, it was because of this 
a new arrangement, including the freezing of interest, couldnt be agreed there and then. So 
Mr S needed to be put back in touch with the priority team to see if interest could be frozen 
without an agreement. It was while Mr S was being transferred back that the call 
disconnected. 
I appreciate Mr S believes the call was cut off. But there is nothing to indicate what 
happened was anything other than the connection being lost; these things can and do 
happen all of the time. And I can see from the records collections did try to call Mr S back 
but it went to voicemail. As agreed, collections sent out the income and expenditure forms 
for completion.
I find nothing untoward in these calls. Although they did last quite a while, this was due to the 
nature of the discussions. The call handlers did update Mr S as to why he was being put on 
hold and checked that this continued to be ok. At all times I think the call handlers were 
courteous and helpful. 
Mr S also had additional calls that day with the complaints team, when making a complaint 
about what had happened earlier that morning (to which my consideration above applies). 
However, my jurisdiction to consider a complaint doesnt extend to how a business handles 
a complaint; only what happened during the provision of the financial service. So to the 
extent Mr Ss complaint concerns what happened during the consideration of his complaint 
on the phone, that isnt something I can comment on. 
The bank has offered to reimburse Mr Ss call costs on provision of evidence of the costs 
being incurred. I find this offer fair and I dont require it to do anymore. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. On provision of evidence of the costs incurred it should reimburse 
Mr Ss call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman