DRN-3803729
The complaint
Miss S says Studio Retail Limited (Studio Retail) irresponsibly lent to her. She has 
requested that interest and late payment charges she paid on her shopping account be 
refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about a Studio Retail shopping account Studio Retail provided to Miss S. 
The account was opened in November 2017 when Miss S was given an initial credit limit of 
£200. This limit was increased eight times until it eventually reached £1,600 in October  
2020. 
Miss S agreed to a payment plan for her account in April 2021, after getting into difficulty 
with it. In October 2021, the account was sold on to a third party. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ss complaint and thought that Studio Retail ought to 
have realised Miss S simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it offered increased Miss Ss credit limit from £400 to £500 in July 2019. 
Studio Retail said it carried out appropriate checks given the relatively low level of initial 
credit given. It also said the credit limit increases were granted based on affordability 
scoring and checking with credit reference agencies. 
As Studio Retail disagrees with our adjudicator, the complaint has now been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Studio Retail needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss S could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Studio Retail should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the Miss S. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that 
prolonged indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Studio Retail shouldnt have provided 
Miss S with any further credit from July 2019 onwards, when her credit limit was increased on 
the fourth occasion, from £400 to £500. Our adjudicator did this having received copies of 
Miss Ss bank statements as well as reviewing her credit report. 
Nonetheless in preparing this decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Studio Retails 
lending history with Miss S, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Studio 
Retail should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. If so, that would mean Studio Retail should have realised that it shouldnt have 
continued to increase Miss Ss credit limits.
When Miss S opened her account in November 2017, Studio Retail has told us there 
were no signs of financial difficulties based on the checks it did. Having reviewed the 
checks, and taking into account the relatively low opening credit limit of £200 Miss S was 
given, I dont think there is enough evidence or information to suggest that at this point it 
would have been unreasonable for Studio Retail to have approved the account. 
Going forwards, taking into account that the three credit limit increases Studio Retail gave 
Miss S happened a year earlier, I think it ought to have taken steps to verify her income 
and level of committed expenditure. I agree with our adjudicator that by July 2019, 
Studio Retail ought to have been doing more to carry out proportionate checks on Miss Ss 
financial situation. Had it done so, it could then have been aware of any signs that Miss S 
could be getting into difficulty with managing her money to the extent that her total level of 
borrowing was unsustainable. 
I say this having noted that by 2019 Miss S was using a much higher proportion of the 
available credit than she had in the previous year. By March 2019 this was around 97% 
and at around 85% of her available credit at the point she was given the credit limit 
increase in July 2019. Ive also noticed that Miss S had incurred a late payment fee in 
May 2019, although this was later cancelled by Studio Retail as a gesture of goodwill. 
So I think it would have been proportionate for Studio Retail to find out more about Miss Ss 
income as well as her daily living costs and committed expenditure. I cant be sure exactly 
what it would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, I think it would 
be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in the bank 
statements Miss S has sent us to get an idea of what would most likely have been disclosed. Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that during this time Miss Ss income had dropped significantly  consistent with her 
leaving her job in May 2019. Also, her current account was dipping into its overdraft in order 
for her to meet her regular outgoings and committed expenditure and that she was 
borrowing sums of money from family members to help her manage her daily outgoings, 
including a mortgage, utility bills, food, travel and other credit repayments. I think all this 
demonstrates that Miss S didnt have enough disposable income to sustainably afford the 
additional borrowing.
I also understand that Miss S took long term sick leave between January and May 2020 and 
that from November 2020 Miss S had taken maternity leave from her job. Again this would 
have been something that would have been apparent had Studio carried out proportionate 
checks before granting the further credit limit increases that it did between January and 
October 2020. 
It follows that I think better proportionate checks, such as asking Miss S about her income 
and committed expenditure and taking steps to verify it, will have likely shown Studio Retail 
that by July 2019 Miss S was already showing signs of having difficulty in managing her 
account alongside her day-to-day living expenses and other debt commitments. And whilst 
Ive seen that Miss S was able to clear her existing balance in November 2019, by March 
2020 she was using 90% of her increased available credit. 
To summarise, I consider that Studio Retails actions in further increasing Miss Ss credit 
limit on this account, in July 2019 and later, unfairly prolonged her indebtedness. Miss S 
was able to continue use a greater level of credit she couldnt afford over an extended 
period of time, with the result that her indebtedness continued to increase. So I think 
Studio Retail should put things right.
Putting things right  what Studio Retail needs to do
Rework Miss Ss account to ensure that from July 2019 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to £400, including any buy now pay later interest (being 
the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also 
be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made Studio Retail should contact Miss S to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan. Once Miss S has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove 
any adverse information recorded on her credit file from July 2019 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss S, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. Studio Retail 
should also remove any adverse information from Miss Ss credit file from July 2019 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio Retail to take off tax from this interest. 
Studio Retail must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Ss complaint. Studio Retail Limited 
should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman