DRN-4041795
The complaint
Mr Z complains, among other things, that Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) didnt
give him a fair settlement when it decided his car was a total loss and that it delayed in
settling his claim on his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Z had an accident in his car and made a claim on his car insurance policy with Haven,
which it accepted.
Mr Z has a number of complaint points:
Mr Z says Haven shouldnt have decided his car was a total loss. He says it was
under warranty and so shouldve been repaired. And he says some of the damage to
his car was due to mechanical failure or faulty repairs following an earlier insurance
claim.
Mr Z doesnt think the settlement amount Haven gave him is fair.
Mr Z doesnt think its fair Haven has treated his claim as a fault claim and has
turned down his personal injury claim.
Mr Z says Haven didnt return personal belongings hed left in his car after the
accident.
Mr Z says there were avoidable delays by Haven in dealing with his claim. He also
says he got poor service.
The investigator who looked at Mr Zs complaint upheld part of it. She didnt think Havens
settlement offer to Mr Z was fair. She recommended an increase of £910.25 plus interest.
But she didnt think Haven had done anything wrong in deciding Mr Zs car was a total loss
or in treating his claim as a fault claim. Our investigator also didnt think there was any
evidence Mr Z had left any belongings in the car. And she thought there was only one slight
delay in Haven dealing with Mr Zs claim, which she noted Haven had apologised to Mr Z for.
So our investigator didnt uphold these parts of Mr Zs complaint.
Haven accepted our investigators findings. Mr Z didnt respond to them and so his
complaint came to me. In my provisional decision of 15 February 2023, I explained why I 
intended to uphold two parts of Mr Zs complaint but didnt intend to uphold the other three 
parts. Haven has accepted my provisional decision. Mr Z hasnt responded to it. So Mr Zs 
complaint has now come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, Ive decided to 
uphold two parts of Mr Zs complaint but not to uphold the other three parts. Looking at each 
of Mr Zs complaint points separately, heres what I said in my provisional decision:
Did Haven act fairly and reasonably in deciding Mr Zs car was a total loss?
Ill look first at whether Haven acted fairly and reasonably in deciding if Mr Zs car was a total
loss. Mr Zs car insurance policy says Haven has full control over all claims covered by his
policy. This is standard in car insurance policies. It means its for Haven  and not Mr Z  to
decide if Mr Zs car was economic to repair or was a total loss. But Haven needed to act
fairly and reasonably in making that decision.
I can see Haven got an independent assessor to inspect the damage to Mr Zs car. Its
assessment was that the estimated repair costs exceeded the value of Mr Zs car. I know
Mr Z doesnt think the damage was as significant as the estimated repair costs suggest and
also that some of the damage was from mechanical failure or from faults following a previous
insurance repair. Mr Z has shown us the engineers report on the damage caused to his car
in a previous accident. But he hasnt given us any expert evidence to show mechanical
failure or faulty repairs caused the accident that is the subject of his claim with Haven. I cant
attach as much weight to Mr Zs opinion as I can to Havens assessors expert opinion. In
these circumstances, I think it was fair and reasonable of Haven to rely on its experts report
to decide Mr Zs car was a total loss. So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to
uphold this part of Mr Zs complaint.
I know Mr Z believes that, because his car was under warranty, it shouldve been repaired.
If Mr Z has concerns about how his manufacturers warranty works, he will have to raise
these directly with the manufacturer. Under the rules of our service, these arent issues I can
look into.
Was Havens settlement offer to Mr Z fair and reasonable?
Ill turn next to whether Havens settlement offer to Mr Z was fair and reasonable. Mr Zs
policy says that, in settling his claim, it will pay the market value of Mr Zs car up to the value
shown in his insurance schedule after taking off his policy excess of £350. Mr Zs policy says
the market value will be decided by a motor trade guides mid-book value. Among other
things, it says the cars condition, mileage and use will also be considered.
Haven paid Mr Z £6,250 in settlement of his claim (which included a deduction of £350 for
his policy excess). This amount was based on its assessors valuation. The assessor used
the average between the trade and retail price of one of the motor trade guides to reach a
valuation of £6,900. But the assessor also noted £600 worth of damage which he said didnt
relate to the claim. He divided this by two and deducted £300 from the settlement amount for
this damage and so reached a figure of £6,600 (from which Haven then deducted Mr Zs
policy excess).
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. We generally find the valuations
given in the main motor trade guides are persuasive. Our investigator got valuations from
four of these guides (rather than just the one guide that Haven used). These guides gave an
average valuation of £7,810.25. Having looked at each of the four valuations our investigator
got, I think an average valuation of £7,810.25 is fair and reasonable. But I think a deduction
of £300 to reflect Havens experts assessment of the pre-accident damage is also fair and
reasonable, as is a deduction of £350 for Mr Zs policy excess. This leaves a settlement
amount of £7,160.25.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold this part of Mr Zs complaint and direct
Haven to pay him an additional £910.25 (plus interest) to settle his claim (that is, the
difference between £7,160.25 and £6,250).
Was it fair and reasonable of Haven to treat Mr Zs claim as a fault claim?Ill turn next to whether it was fair and reasonable of Haven to treat Mr Zs claim as a fault
claim. Mr Z says he wasnt at fault for the accident. In records Haven has sent us, Mr Z says
the accident happened either when he hit a pothole or when he hit the kerb as he was
driving along. As Ive already mentioned, Mr Z also says the damage to his car was due
either to mechanical failure or previous faulty repairs but, as Ive noted, he hasnt given us
enough evidence for me to think this is likely.
An insurance company can treat a claim as a fault claim when it cant get back any of the
costs its paid out to settle the claim from a third party (such as another drivers insurer).
Haven hasnt been able to get back any of its costs in Mr Zs case. So I think its acted fairly
and reasonably in treating Mr Zs claim as a fault claim. This also means that its acted
fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr Zs personal injury claim.
Its for this reason that I dont intend to uphold this part of Mr Zs complaint.
Did Haven fail to return Mr Zs personal belongings?
Mr Z says Haven didnt return various personal belongings he left in the car following the
accident. We asked Mr Z what belongings hed left. He said he couldnt remember
specifically  but recalls things like a work uniform, jewellery, shoes, a sat nav, sunglasses
and tools.
We also asked Haven what its process was for telling a policyholder to clear personal
belongings from a car when its a total loss. It said its salvage agent would tell a policyholder
this in phone calls and, on collection, its salvage agent would get a collection sheet signed
by the policyholder. Haven has shown us the collection sheet for Mr Zs car. It hasnt been
signed by Mr Z but it does show there were no personal belongings in the car at the time of
collection.
Mr Zs recollections of what was left behind dont seem certain and Havens collection sheet
suggests there were no personal belongings in the car at the point when it was collected for
salvage. The limited evidence I have doesnt persuade me its more likely than not Haven
didnt return Mr Zs personal belongings to him.
So, based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold this part of Mr Zs complaint.
Were there avoidable delays by Haven in dealing with Mr Zs claim and was the service it
gave of an acceptable standard?
The final issue for me to consider is the level of service Haven gave Mr Z. Looking at the
timeline of events, there was a delay by Haven in instructing the independent assessor to
inspect Mr Zs car (I think its own engineers were unable to decide if it was repairable or a
total loss). These instructions werent sent until around two weeks after Mr Z notified Haven
of his claim. It was around ten days after the assessor had given Haven its report before
Haven told Mr Z it had decided his car was a total loss. It was then around six weeks later
before Haven made Mr Z its settlement offer. It seems that, for at least some of this time,
Haven was waiting for information from the police (whod taken Mr Zs car back to his home
after hed left it in the road following the accident). But theres no evidence Haven gave Mr Z
a full explanation for this hold-up when he called chasing for updates. Finally, there was also
a delay by Haven in paying Mr Z its settlement offer.
From Havens call records and from what Mr Z has told us, Ive no doubt his claims
experience was one that caused Mr Z considerable distress, upset and worry. He says,
Haven neglected to correspond with me [to] keep me updated. I was not called once to begiven an update but yet every time I called I was informed that they [were] conducting an
investigation and consulting the police, which didnt make sense to me because the police
had nothing to do with the accident. Havens delay in finalising Mr Zs claim also meant he
was without a car for quite a long time  and he says this meant he couldnt drive to work
and had to stay with his mother for months.
In these circumstances, based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold this part of Mr Zs
complaint. I think its fair and reasonable to direct Haven to pay Mr Z £350 for the distress
and inconvenience its handling of his claim has caused him.
Mr Z has given us a number of comments about his experiences with Haven and Id like him
to know Ive looked at all of them in reaching the provisional conclusions Ive set out in this
provisional decision.
As Ive mentioned, Mr Z hasnt responded to my provisional decision, while Haven has 
accepted it. Having looked at everything again, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I set 
out in my provisional decision, which now form part of this final decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Zs complaint in part and direct 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay an additional amount of £910.25 to settle Mr Zs claim on his car insurance 
policy. Haven must also pay simple interest on this additional amount at the rate of 
8% a year from the date of its initial settlement of Mr Zs claim (which I believe was 
on or around 3 August 2021) until the date of payment; and
Pay Mr Z £350 for the distress and inconvenience its handling of his claim has
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman