DRN-4059489
The complaint
Miss H complains that it was irresponsible of TSB Bank plc to agree a loan for her. 
What happened
In November 2021, Mrs H applied for and received a loan of £10,000. It was to be repaid in 
84 monthly instalments of £154.22. She told TSB she wanted to use most of the money to 
repay debts she had with it  an overdraft and credit card. The loan was agreed, but Mrs H 
says TSB knew she was vulnerable and would have been able to see her income and 
expenditure as her current account was with it. She complained to TSB saying that if proper 
checks had been done, it ought to have refused to lend to her.
TSB looked into Mrs Hs complaint. It said it had carried out its usual checks and, based on 
the information shed given and that it held, it was satisfied it had lent to her responsibly. It 
rejected her complaint.
Mrs H didnt accept what TSB said, so she referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt the checks TSB carried out could have been more 
thorough, but even if they had, the bank would still have reached the decision to lend. He 
didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
TSB accepted what our investigator said, but Mrs H didnt. As there was no agreement, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and 
law. Ive considered this approach when deciding this complaint. 
TSB needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt lend 
to Mrs H irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did TSB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Did TSB make a fair lending decision?
Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
TSB had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H would 
be able to repay the loan sustainably. That is, Mrs H should be able to repay it without undue 
difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments, 
the purpose of the loan and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did TSB carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs H was in 
a position to sustainably repay the loan?
When she applied for the loan, Mrs H gave TSB various pieces of information. This included 
that she had a monthly income of around £3,600 and expenses of £600. She said the loan 
was to repay other debts  she had around £5,600 of debt with TSB on an overdraft and 
credit card. These debts are generally much more expensive in terms of interest than this 
loan and are generally open ended. So it would seem a sensible decision for Mrs H to seek 
to consolidate the debt onto a single, less expensive, fixed cost and fixed term product.
While the purpose of the loan seemed sensible, the loan was increasing Mrs Hs 
indebtedness to TSB and, as Ive said, it had a duty to ensure the repayments would be 
sustainable for her. Its not clear what steps TSB took to verify this information. Mrs H gave 
her employment as a homemaker, so it seems unlikely she alone wouldve received the level 
of income she declared. So Im not persuaded that the checks carried out by TSB were 
reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time, and did TSB 
make a fair lending decision? 
While I dont think the checks carried out were sufficient, I need to consider what TSB 
wouldve found had it been more thorough in its assessment of the application. 
Mrs H declared she was married/in a civil partnership and as Ive already said, she declared 
an income of around £3,600. This would have been straightforward for TSB to check as it 
had access to her current account. It has pointed out that the money paid into her account 
over the three months prior to her application for the loan supported the level of income 
shed given. 
Much of the income appeared to come from another individual with the same surname as 
Mrs H, so it wouldnt have been unreasonable for TSB to take that into account when 
considering the affordability of the loan.
While Mrs Hs expenditure looked different from that shed declared, her account was run 
within limits. She was up to date with payments to her credit card. 
If TSB had carried out further checks on Mrs Hs application, Im not persuaded it would 
have discovered anything which would have made a difference to its decision to lend to her. 
The loan was reducing the cost of the borrowing she had with it and appeared to be 
sustainable based on what she told it and it knew from its own records. 
I think on balance it reached a fair decision to lend to Mrs H. 
Did TSB act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs H in some other way?
Mrs H has explained to TSB that she is a vulnerable consumer. I can see notes to that effect 
on TSBs system from 2019  prior to this loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that TSB 
was made aware that she needed extra help from it to manage her finances or that ought to 
have given it any concerns about agreeing to her application for the loan. I dont think it has 
treated her unfairly in agreeing to lend to her while she was noted as being vulnerable. I appreciate that Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope my explanation has 
been helpful. If Mrs H is in financial difficulty, Id encourage her to work with TSB to find a 
suitable repayment plan. I take this opportunity to remind TSB of its obligation to treat Mrs H 
fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman