DRN-3887520
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society provided a poor level of service to her and 
caused an error with an international payment.
What happened
Around January last year, Mrs F visited a Nationwide branch to carry out an international 
payment. She says the funds were to be used for a property purchase being made in 
another country, so the success of the payment was critical. Mrs F complains about the 
interaction with the banks staff on that day and because she experienced further problems 
during the days that followed. In summary, Mrs F says:
She received a poor level of service from the staff member that helped her complete 
the transaction, because the staff member overly questioned whether the payment 
was for something genuine, and that Mrs F found her to be rude and unprofessional.
An error was made with the payment details, causing problems with it reaching the 
intended recipient.
When she contacted Nationwide by telephone, she was given incorrect information 
and was promised multiple call backs that werent carried out.
Nationwide made an error when it tried to recall the payment. 
The multiple errors by the bank caused her health issues to get worse  Mrs F says 
she suffered panic attacks  including one in branch  stress and anxiety and 
continues to be on medication for these issues.
Nationwide upheld Mrs Fs complaint, agreeing that most of the issues shed pointed out had 
indeed been things the bank did wrong. The bank clarified what went wrong with Mrs Fs 
payment and agreed there were multiple failings. Nationwide didnt agree that its staff 
member was rude and confirmed that the level of questioning was part of its approach to 
ensuring Mrs F didnt fall victim to a scam. 
Nationwide confirmed that, because the funds had since reached the intended recipient, the 
payment recall had been cancelled and it refunded the £20 fee Mrs F paid for the 
transaction. To put things right, Nationwide paid Mrs F £250 compensation.
Remaining unhappy, Mrs F asked this service to get involved. Our investigator initially asked 
Nationwide to increase its compensation by a further £150. But Mrs F didnt agree and she 
submitted further information about the impact the banks errors had on her. So our 
investigator decided to increase the recommendation for compensation by £350, bringing the 
overall total to £600. 
Nationwide agreed, but Mrs F remains unhappy and thinks this figure isnt enough to put 
things right. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its necessary for me to revisit the issues Mrs F complained about. Nationwide 
has largely accepted it did things wrong and paid compensation, so my comments on the 
complaint issues is unlikely to add much value. The only point that remains under dispute is 
the level of compensation that would fairly put things right. Nationwide has agreed to 
increase its compensation award by a further £350, in line with our investigators 
recommendation. I agree that this is a fair way to resolve this matter. Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mrs F thinks more compensation is due. I wont go into too much detail 
about the medical impact on Mrs F, but I can see shes clearly experienced a major amount 
of stress and her medical conditions have been exacerbated by what Nationwide has done 
wrong. Im also conscious of the fact that she suffered a panic attack at a Nationwide 
branch, which I recognise wouldve been very distressing. Mrs F says she continues to 
experience the impact of what happened and remains on medication to manage her 
conditions.
However, Im also mindful that Mrs Fs medical conditions existed before these issues with 
the bank took place. Ive seen the letter Mrs F provided from her doctor that sets out the 
different conditions shes been diagnosed with. So, although I agree that Nationwides 
actions likely had a significant impact on Mrs F, I cant fairly conclude that the ongoing 
impact is solely due to the banks actions. 
I empathise with Mrs F, given she has to manage her conditions on a regular basis, and 
because it seems the medical intervention she needs has become a common aspect of her 
life. But given Mrs F had these diagnosed conditions prior to her experiencing the poor 
service by the bank, I dont find that it would be fair to increase the compensation award 
further, as I cant safely say that the banks wrongdoing continues to impact her to a degree 
that warrants more compensation. 
So I wont be asking Nationwide to pay anything more than what it has already agreed to 
pay.
Putting things right
Nationwides actions caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mrs F. To put 
things right, Nationwide should increase its total compensation payment to £600  
Nationwide has already paid Mrs F £250, so it needs to pay her the remaining £350.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should pay Mrs F a further £350 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman