DRN-3804666
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim for his stolen pickup 
on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs pickup was stolen from his farm during the day, so he claimed on his policy with 
Aviva. When discussing the circumstances around the theft Mr B let Aviva know the pickup 
had been left unlocked with the keys in a tub in the back of it. Because of this, Aviva turned 
down Mr Bs claim as it said the policy didnt provide cover for theft if the keys were left in or 
on the pickup.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and complained. He said the decision to decline the claim took 
too long and that he hadnt been told he wouldnt be covered for theft if they keys were left in 
or on the pickup. Aviva reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it, so Mr B referred his 
complaint here. He said he hadnt been able to view his documents via the online portal and 
because of this he said Aviva hadnt let him know about the exclusion. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She found that 
Aviva had highlighted the term in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) and so 
thought Aviva had done enough to bring it to Mr Bs attention. She also found that while Mr B 
couldnt download or view his policy documents online, he hadnt raised this with Aviva 
before. So she didnt think it made a difference to his complaint. 
Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy, like most policies we see say they wont cover 
theft of Mr Bs pickup if the keys have been left in or on it. While this isnt an unusual term in 
a motor insurance policy it is a significant one. I say that because it removes all theft cover if 
it applies, and so it would only be fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely upon it if the term has 
been sufficiently highlighted. 
Aviva has provided a copy of the IPID for Mr Bs policy which has a heading Exclusions or 
limitations. The third point under this heading says: 
Loss or damage arising from theft while the ignition keys of your vehicle 
have been left in or on your vehicle or your vehicle has been left 
unattended with the engine running
Mr B said the keys were in the back of the pickup in a tub, Im therefore satisfied the keys 
were in or on the pickup at the time and so this exclusion applies. Also, as Aviva have put it 
in the IPID under a heading in bold Im satisfied it has done enough to draw attention to the 
significant exclusion. 
I understand Mr B has said hes not been able to view his documents online as the portal 
isnt working. However, I cant see that issue has caused him a loss here. I say that because 
Mr B only noticed the issue with the online portal after the theft. And while its disappointing 
to see it isnt working for him, I cant see that Aviva was made aware of this and didnt act on 
it before the theft. It therefore follows that Im not persuaded Aviva has acted unfairly by 
turning down this claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman