DRN-3238304
The complaint
Miss T complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited were wrong to report missed 
payments to her credit file.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss T acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
I understand that BMWFS have accepted the investigators view that they should remove the 
missed payment markers they placed on Miss Ts credit file.
I would also agree with the investigators view. BMWFSs system notes show that they were 
reinstating the direct debit in January 2021 when Miss T had asked for a further extension of 
the agreement. That would seem the logical way for Miss T to pay as it was the method 
shed used for the previous extension. If that method was changing Id expect BMWFSs 
communication to be very clear. I dont think the email they sent to Miss T on 24 January 
2021 was particularly clear; I think, for instance, that they should have mentioned in that 
email that they were changing the method of payment. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that BMWFS told Miss T she had missed payments or called 
her to alert her to the situation. So, I dont think it was fair of them to report the missed 
payments.
Ive considered at what point BMWFS should remove the adverse reports from the credit file 
and I dont think its unreasonable of them to remove them after Miss T brings her account 
up to date by paying for the use shes had from the car.
I understand Miss T says that the business allowed her to use the car whilst the complaint 
was ongoing, and shes explained that she didnt expect to pay for that use. I think its likely 
Miss T has had use of the car as the MOT records show the mileage has increased. Im not 
persuaded BMWFS told Miss T she could have free use of the car as their system notes 
dont show that. 
It may have been difficult for Miss T to find suitable finance because of the missed payment 
markers and that may have made it difficult for her to finance the balloon payment. But in 
those circumstances the car could still have been returned as the agreement had come to an 
end.
Putting things right
I therefore think BMWFS should remove the missed payment markers from Miss Ts credit 
file when the account is brought up to date.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to remove the late payment markers they reported to Miss Ts credit file in 
relation to the final three-month contract extension she arranged with them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman