DRN-3561576
The complaint
Mr B complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited has mishandled his claim for a 
refund for faulty goods hed purchased with a credit card. 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr B purchased new floor tiles for the kitchen and hallway area of his home. 
He says he informed the retailer that these tiles would need to be suitable for an area with 
high usage. The tiles were also to be fitted over underfloor heating.
The total cost of the tiles was £1,440 which Mr B paid for using the credit card provided by 
John Lewis. 
Mr B says that as his tiler was laying the tiles, they pointed out to Mr B that some were 
chipped and marked. Mr B says that because his family needed to access the kitchen and 
hallway, he had to have the tiles installed despite their condition. Mr B also says that once 
fitted it wouldnt then be possible to lift any of the tiles as that would damage the under-floor 
heating system.
Mr B says he contacted the retailer by telephone and complained about the condition of the 
tiles. He says the retailer refused to reimburse him. So, in March 2020 Mr B contacted John 
Lewis via its Hub to make a claim for the cost of the tiles which he said werent of a 
satisfactory quality. 
John Lewis sent Mr B a Dispute Form to complete which he did and returned in April 2020. 
Mr B says as he hadnt heard anything more, he contacted John Lewis in May 2020 and 
enquired about his claim. John Lewis explained that due to the impact of Covid it was 
experiencing delays in dealing with disputes. 
In June 2020 Mr B complained about the time that was being taken to consider his claim. 
John Lewis acknowledged his complaint and paid him £30 as compensation for the delay. 
Mr B made a further complaint to John Lewis about the lack of resolution to his claim in July 
2020. John Lewis paid Mr B a further £50 as compensation for the inconvenience caused by 
the delay in dealing with his dispute. 
Around one-week later, John Lewis wrote to Mr B requesting that he contact the retailer 
either by letter or email setting out that the tiles were faulty, that they would be made ready 
for collection and that he was seeking a refund. It asked Mr B to then forward a copy of this 
correspondence together with a copy of the sales invoice (which should include the delivery 
date) and a copy of the retailers terms and conditions to itself.
Mr B responded that he had attempted to contact the retailer, but they were unhelpful. He 
said he was looking to John Lewis to protect his rights. Shortly afterwards, Mr B expressed 
his disappointment at the service he was receiving from John Lewis. John Lewis apologised 
for the delay and again explained that this was due to the impact of Covid.
Mr B was unhappy at John Lewis handling of his claim for reimbursement of the cost of the 
tiles and complained to this service. He said he would like John Lewis to refund the cost of 
the tiles under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He provided some photos of the 
tiles to show the faults. However, having considered all the evidence provided our 
investigator said he wasnt recommending Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator said that he didnt think Mr B had provided sufficient information for a claim 
to be successful under either section 75 or the chargeback scheme. He said Mr B had had 
the tiles installed and although the photos showed some minor chips and marks it wasnt 
clear how or when they had occurred.  Our investigator said that he would need to see the 
opinion of an independent expert as to the condition of the tiles, a copy of the retailers terms 
and conditions and a copy of the sales invoice to assist in deciding if there had been a 
breach of contract.
Mr B disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said he had supplied copies of the 
paperwork hed been provided with by the retailer. Mr B also said he didnt think it was fair 
hed have to cover the cost of an independent expert inspecting the floor. He said it wouldnt 
be possible to change only the tiles that were faulty as this would damage the underfloor 
heating.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether John Lewis has acted fairly and reasonably in its response 
to Mr Bs claim for reimbursement for the tiles which he said were faulty. 
Mr B says that the tiles werent of the standard he had expected and that he had been clear 
when ordering them from the retailer that they needed to be suitable for areas which were 
subject to lots of use. 
When Mr B made his claim to John Lewis, it had first considered using the chargeback 
scheme. Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made 
on the card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the 
card networks, here thats MasterCard. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be 
reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no 
automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be 
processed. These are that the cardholder engaged in the transaction, the cardholder 
contacted the merchant to resolve the complaint and the merchant refused to adjust the 
price, repair the item or replace it. It also says that for disputes involving goods the 
cardholder must have either returned the item or have informed the merchant that the 
goods were available for pick-up.
If John Lewis feels that a claim won't be successful, then it doesnt have to raise a 
chargeback. So, John Lewis isnt obliged to make a chargeback if it concludes that the 
chances of success would be remote. John Lewis said that it hadnt received sufficient 
evidence to be able to pursue a claim for Mr B via the chargeback scheme.
Looking at the evidence that Mr B had provided, I think John Lewis decision not to 
pursue a chargeback claim due to not having enough evidence to satisfy the criteria 
was fair and reasonable. Mr B hasnt been able to provide proof of his contact with the retailer or the terms and conditions that applied when he purchased the tiles. Further it 
would appear that as Mr B had chosen to instal the tiles, and says they cant now be 
taken up due to potential damage to the underfloor heating, that its unlikely he would 
have sought to either return them or ask the retailer to collect them as required under 
the chargeback scheme rules. 
Although John Lewis doesnt appear to have then considered if a claim should be opened 
under section 75 for Mr B, I dont think this has put him at a disadvantage and I will explain 
why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 may apply when the goods or services 
purchased via a credit agreement cost over £100 and up to a limit of £30,000. The 
general effect of the section is that if a consumer has paid for goods or services with a 
credit agreement, and they have a claim against the supplier of those goods or 
services for misrepresentation or breach of contract, they are given a like claim against 
the credit provider, which here is John Lewis.
To be satisfied that a misrepresentation had occurred there would need to be evidence 
that a false statement of fact had been made to Mr B about the tiles and Mr B had been 
induced by that statement to enter into the contract. Although Mr B says he asked 
about the tiles being used in a high traffic area of his home he hasnt said that the 
damage to the tiles arose from people walking on them. He says the tiles were faulty 
when they were supplied to him. I therefore havent seen any evidence that the tiles 
were misrepresented to Mr B.
Mr B says that the tiles were chipped and marked when they were supplied to him. He 
said that he had to instal them because his family needed to access the areas the tiles 
were to be laid. Although Mr B says he contacted the retailer who were unhelpful Im 
unclear if this contact was made before or after the tiles had been laid by Mr Bs tiler. 
And without the terms and conditions that applied to the supply of those tiles I dont 
know if there were any restrictions (such as having fitted them) to any return/refund.
Mr B has provided some photos as to the condition of the tiles. I agree these show 
some minor chips and marks. But I dont know when these photos were taken or that 
they represent the condition of the tiles before they were laid. It is possible the damage 
that the photos show could have arisen from a number of different causes and Im 
afraid Mr Bs description of the tiles isnt enough to say the they were defective when 
he received them, particularly since they had been installed so were handled by a third-
party.  I think its reasonable to say the photos arent enough to say the tiles were 
defective from the point of supply to Mr B. And while I appreciate Mr Bs reluctance to 
seek an expert report about the condition of the tiles it is for him to provide the 
necessary evidence to support his claim for reimbursement under section 75.
Mr B has supplied the receipts for the tiles but not a sales invoice, so I dont know if the 
tiles he ordered were the ones that were delivered. I appreciate Mr B says that he 
wasnt given any other documentation, but a sales invoice is usual. I think it would be 
reasonable to have expected Mr B to have asked the retailer for a copy of the sales 
invoice when he ordered and paid for the tiles. 
Looking at the evidence I dont think there is enough to show that there had been a 
breach of contract due to the tiles being of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Nor does the evidence show that the tiles Mr B bought werent the ones that 
were delivered. The circumstances have been further complicated by the tiles having 
been laid, and although I understand why he did so, Mr B will need to provide evidence 
that shows any defects were there before they had been fitted. So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr B, Im not upholding his 
complaint. I dont think John Lewis has acted unfairly when it didnt pursue a 
chargeback claim. Im also satisfied that there is insufficient evidence to support a 
successful section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I dont think John Lewis 
Financial Services Limited has acted unfairly when dealing with his claim for a 
reimbursement of the cost of the tiles.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman