DRN-3395479
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, havent upheld a claim
he made to them after an unsuccessful car repair.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Chargeback
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Barclaycard, the administrators are Visa and
there are strict rules that govern whether claims can succeed. Barclaycard didnt have to
raise a chargeback claim but Id consider it good practice for them to do so in these
circumstances.
The scheme administrators rejected that claim because the garage defended it with
evidence theyd completed some of the work. The garage was prepared to waive £306 but 
as Barclaycard dont set the rules and as the claim had been successfully defended by the 
garage I dont think their approach when debiting the balance was unreasonable.
Section 75
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
I understand that Mr M suggests the work completed by the garage to rectify the battery 
drain was wrong and that he therefore incurred additional costs. The garage told him there 
was a drain on the battery coming from the CD player and subsequently told him to replace 
the battery. If that advice was wrong Id think there had been a breach of contract. 
Whilst I can see a dealership subsequently identified a fault with the Pneumatic System 
Equipment (PSE) pump I dont have sufficient evidence to demonstrate the work initially 
completed was wrong. I think its reasonably feasible that there could have been multiple 
drains on the battery but that the garage missed one. Because a subsequent problem was 
found doesnt mean that the initial work was unnecessary.
Mr M says that the garage completed work without his authority, but Im not persuaded that 
was most likely the case. I say that because:
The issue with unauthorised charging appears to have been raised only after the 
second repair was completed and Id expect Mr M to have raised that earlier if there 
was a concern.
The investigator has explained that Mr M paid the £1,727 for the repair without 
checking what had been done. If the car had merely been booked in for a diagnostic 
Id expect Mr M to have challenged that bill.
The investigator has explained that Mr M told her he thought the bill was £700 when 
he heard it over the phone. Again, I think that hed have challenged that figure if he 
had only requested a simple diagnostic.
So, overall, I dont think I have sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation here and Im not asking Barclaycard to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman