DRN-4210630
The complaint
Mr H had two personal pensions. One of these, held with a provider Ill refer to as provider A, 
had around £11,000 in crystallised funds, as well as uncrystallised funds. No part of the 
other personal pension, held with a provider Ill refer to as provider B, had been crystallised. 
Mr H complains that HUB Financial Solutions Limited (HUB) failed to advise him that he 
couldnt combine the crystallised funds he held with provider A with the uncrystallised funds 
he held with it and with provider B into an annuity with another provider Ill refer to as 
provider C. He felt this had led to him having to pay £2,200 more tax than he wouldve paid if 
hed been given the correct information from the start. Mr H also felt that HUB had caused 
delays to the set-up of the annuity. 
HUB upheld Mr Hs complaint and offered him £250 compensation as it felt it couldve been 
clearer about the use of crystallised and uncrystallised funds. But Mr H wants HUB to pay 
him the £2,200 tax he had to pay to fully draw the crystallised funds.
What happened
Mr H wanted to use the funds from his two personal pensions, held with two different 
providers, to buy an annuity. He was referred to HUB by one of these providers, so that it 
could help him with the process of transferring his funds into an annuity.
Mr H began the process to set up his annuity at the end of October 2022. On 2 November 
2022, he had a call with HUB about this. He said he told HUB during this call that his 
pension with provider A contained crystallised funds. But that the adviser didnt seem to 
understand him. 
Mr H called HUB on 7 November 2022 to chase the application pack. HUBs call notes 
stated that it was aware that due to postal strikes impacting delivery times, it could take up to 
10 days for Mr Hs pack to arrive. So it asked him to return his application as soon as 
possible.
Mr H completed the application pack on 9 November 2022. And HUB received it on 11 
November 2022. It sent Mr H an email the same day to confirm it had received the pack, and 
would process it within the next two working days. This email also stated that the total 
processing time for the application would be around four to six weeks from receipt of all 
completed documentation.
Also on 11 November 2022, HUB sent all the information to provider C so that it could begin 
the process of requesting funds from provider A and provider B to set up the annuity.
On 14 November 2022 Mr H spoke with HUB as he was very anxious about the value of his 
personal pension funds falling in value and reducing his annuity income. HUB said it would 
call provider C to get a timeline of how long it would take to apply the funds. It also said that 
provider C emailed it on 14 November 2022 for more information, which it provided the same 
day. 
HUBs phone notes recorded that Mr Hs application had been prioritised. And that it would 
update him when it had news. 
On 23 November 2022, HUB chased provider C. It asked it if it had requested the funds for 
Mr Hs annuity. And asked if he could be contacted as soon as provider C had all the funds. 
The phone notes stated: He chose to take a certain amount of TFC but may want to 
increase this depending on the total FV you receive.
HUB also updated Mr H the same day. The phone notes stated that he said he wanted to 
take £80,000 in Tax-Free Cash (TFC). And that anything extra should go towards his 
annuity, which would then be larger than originally quoted. But that he also asked HUB to 
ask provider C to call him once it had the funds, so he could decide whether he wanted to 
take more TFC than hed originally stated.
Mr H called HUB on 25 November 2022 to see if provider C had requested his funds yet. He 
said provider A had said that as soon as it received the request it would freeze the account 
and transfer the funds within two days. HUBs call notes stated that it hadnt been told that 
the funds had been requested yet, but that it would contact provider C for an update. And 
that Mr H wasnt happy with how long the process was taking, as he was afraid that the fund 
value would fall. 
The call notes also recorded that Mr H had confirmed that he only wanted to use £300,000 
of his funds to buy the annuity, with the remaining funds to be used as TFC. And that HUB 
would call provider C to pass on this request. And would update Mr H when it had news.
HUBs call notes showed that it then called provider C for an update. Provider C confirmed 
that it hadn't requested the funds yet. But told HUB that Mr Hs application had been 
scanned on 14 November 2022, and that the funds should be requested by the middle of the 
following week. Provider C also said that due to the high volume of applications it was 
receiving it was taking 10-14 working days to process and request funds. 
The call notes also showed that although provider C usually used the figures on the quote 
for the annuity purchase, it could accommodate Mr H's request to only use £300,000 for the 
purchase of the annuity, and then use the rest for TFC.
HUB emailed Mr H on 25 November 2022 to tell him what provider C had said. It said it had 
asked for his case to be marked as urgent. It also said it had raised a complaint for him 
given he was unhappy with how long it had taken provider C to request his funds. It said this 
would be investigated by both its and provider Cs complaints department, who could assess 
if the delays had caused Mr H any detriment. 
On 30 November 2022, Mr H called HUB again as provider B had told him it hadnt received 
any requests from provider C. He was upset and explained how stressful it was to watch his 
funds fall in value during this process. It was giving him sleepless nights. 
The call notes recorded that provider C had told Mr H that his application hadnt even been 
scanned yet, so the funds hadnt been requested. HUB noted that this conflicted with the 
information provider C had given it on 25 November 2022, when it had told HUB that Mr Hs 
application had been scanned on 14 November 2022. So it called provider C.
HUB said that provider C said that the application hadnt been scanned, and it didnt know 
why HUB had been told on 14 November 2022 that it had. It said the case would be raised 
with a manager. HUB raised another complaint on Mr Hs behalf. And said that a manager 
would call him.HUB then spoke to provider C, who said that as its management were now specifically 
looking at this case, it hoped the funds would be requested at the end of that week. HUB 
asked provider C to update Mr H regularly. It also explained that Mr Hs main concern, and 
the reason for his distrust, was because it had been told on 25 November 2022 that the 
application had already been scanned on 14 November 2022. But this hadnt been the case.
On 2 December 2022, Mr H told HUB how fed up and frustrated hed become with the whole 
process. He said he needed the annuity as it was his income, and he had bills to pay. He felt 
that his annuity wouldnt start before his January direct debts needed paying, and that this 
was unacceptable. Mr H said hed made it clear early on in the process that he needed an 
annuity payment before the Christmas break. He wanted his complaint to be resolved 
quickly.
Provider C emailed HUB on 2 December 2022. It said that it had received Mr Hs application 
on 11 November 2022. But it hadnt requested the funds yet as a: critical requirement was 
still outstanding. It said it still needed: the form for the FCA reportability. And that once it 
had this, it would request the funds. HUB felt it had sent provider C everything it needed, and 
it didnt know what this request was for, so it contacted provider C to find out. A further 
phone note from HUB stated that provider C didnt really give an explanation for the request. 
Provider C sent the fund requests to provider A and provider B on 5 December 2022. On the 
same date, HUB sent its first final response to Mr H. It acknowledged he needed his funds 
urgently, but it didnt think it had caused any delays to his application.
There was a lot of further correspondence and calls between Mr H and HUB during the early 
and middle part of December 2022. On 7 December 2022 HUB confirmed that providers A 
and B had both seen the fund requests. It updated Mr H, telling him that the proposal was for 
the funds to be released towards the end of December 2022. There are also call notes which 
show that HUB regularly tried to contact provider C for an update, but couldnt get through. 
And that it told Mr H that once the funds had been sent to provider C it would ask it to set up 
the annuity as soon as possible. 
Mr H made the following complaint points:
- He was unhappy with the length of the process. And felt that HUB could be doing 
more to help. He didnt have another income, so was living off savings that he 
wouldnt be able to top up. He said that the process was making him ill and causing 
him a lot of stress, on top of the fact that a close family member was very ill.
- He was very upset and felt that errors had cost him thousands of pounds.
- He was concerned that the arrears option hed chosen no longer met his needs. 
- He wanted to know when provider C would pay his TFC and set up his annuity. 
HUBs call notes show that it confirmed that it was still within its usual timescale of four to six 
weeks. And that it re-quoted an annuity in advance, which Mr H decided not to take. It also 
said it would call provider C and update Mr H with a timescale.
On 12 December 2022, Mr H told HUB that he was tired of chasing it, provider C and 
provider A to get his annuity set up. He said that provider A was missing information so 
couldnt action the fund transfer as a result. Although hed sorted this out, he felt that HUB 
shouldve done so. 
HUB called provider C the same day, who said it was confident that there would be no further delays. It was just waiting for the transfer of funds from provider A.
Mr Hs funds with provider A were split between crystallised and uncrystallised. Provider C 
couldnt accept mixed crystallised and uncrystallised funds in the same annuity. It said if it 
processed the crystallised and uncrystallised funds separately as separate annuities, it 
couldnt guarantee the original annuity rate. Instead, it would have to do a re-quote on the 
current rate. Mr H said that was unacceptable. 
Provider C requested the uncrystallised funds, but said it couldnt accept the crystallised. So 
£10,830.60, as of 14 December 2022, would stay invested with provider A. Provider A also 
said that Mr Hs next £1,000 payment from his crystalised account was due to be paid on 1 
January 2023. 
Provider A transferred the total £101,166.02 uncrystallised funds to provider C on 14 
December 2022.
Mr H called HUB again on 14 December 2022. He wanted HUB to get provider C to push his 
case. He wanted the original rate hed been offered, even if his pensions had to be split into 
two separate annuities. He told HUB hed made it aware from the start that the provider C 
funds were crystallised. So he felt it shouldve known not to use provider C as the chosen 
provider, as it couldnt accept the uncrystallised funds. 
On 19 December 2022, HUB emailed provider C for an update and to raise a complaint on 
Mr Hs behalf about the incorrect information it had been given on 25 November 2022. It 
asked provider C to confirm if there were any issues with accepting the crystalised funds 
from provider A. 
Mr H told HUB the same day that he was finding the process very frustrating and 
uncomfortable. And that this was probably one of the most important transactions hed ever 
make. 
HUBs call note from 29 December 2022 said that Mr H had contacted provider A to ask it 
not to transfer his remaining funds to provider C for an annuity. The note also said that Mr H 
felt that his crystallised funds shouldve been sent to provider C first, so that he could get 
£89,500 of TFC, and an annuity of £18,452. But as the crystallised funds remained with 
provider A, he could only take it as taxed cash, to his potential detriment.
On 9 January 2023, Mr H told HUB he wanted to take the remainder of his funds with 
provider A - £9,784.47 - directly. Mr H also confirmed that hed received his TFC and 
confirmation of his annuity income. HUB also sent Mr H a copy of his annuity documentation.
On 11 January 2023, Mr H wrote to HUB. He felt that hed had to do a lot of the chasing 
involved with the various providers. He also felt that HUB was responsible for the issue with 
his crystallised funds not being used for his annuity, because provider C had told him that 
HUB shouldve known that it didnt allow mixed funds. He felt that this had led to him having 
to pay tax on the crystallised funds from provider A, leading to him being £2,162 out of 
pocket. He was unhappy that hed paid HUB almost £4,800 when he felt hed done all the 
work to sort out the errors. 
While still waiting for his complaint to be addressed, Mr H also wrote to HUB on 1 March 
2023 to say that hed not only had to pay almost £2,200 of unnecessary tax due to having to 
take the crystallised funds out separate to the annuity, but hed also lost £1,000 due to the 
process taking eight weeks rather than four to six weeks. He said this was because his first 
annuity payment wasn't until 16 January 2023. HUB issued its final response to the complaint on 9 March 2023. It said it shouldve done 
more to better understand what Mr H had told it about his crystallised and uncrystallised 
funds with provider A. It apologised for the confusion and the impact this had on Mr H at the 
time. And offered £250 compensation. 
Mr H rejected HUBs offer. And asked it to send him transcripts or call recordings of his calls 
with HUB on 2 November 2022 and 28 March 2023. He brought his complaint to this service 
on 10 March 2023. 
Our investigator felt that HUB had made an error during the 2 November 2022 call, as it 
shouldve told Mr H that provider C couldnt accept mixed funds into the annuity that was to 
be set up. But he didnt consider that HUB should be asked to cover the subsequent tax Mr 
H had incurred when hed decided to take the remaining crystallised funds from provider A 
as taxed cash. 
Our investigator said this was because Mr Hs annuity was already more than the standard 
tax-free income threshold. So if HUB had correctly confirmed that the provider C annuity 
couldnt accept the crystallised part of his fund with provider A, he felt all of Mr Hs options 
wouldve led to him being charged income tax on the remaining crystallised funds in his 
provider A pension. Therefore he felt that HUBs offer of £250 was fair under the 
circumstances.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator. He felt hed missed out on the major point that he 
mightve looked at a different option for his money if he'd been told from the start that mixed 
funds couldnt be used for the annuity HUB put forward. He said hed only found out that the 
funds couldnt be mixed after theyd been transferred from both his pensions. So hed felt his 
only sensible option was to allow the annuity to continue and to take the crystallised funds 
separately.
Mr H said that he felt from the information HUB had provided that the crystallised funds 
wouldve made up part of the annuity. So he wouldve then received more TFC, given hed 
stated that he only wanted a £300K annuity. He felt he wouldve received over £90K TFC 
and still had £300K for the annuity if hed been correctly informed.
Our investigator felt that Mr H was already effectively in the position he wouldve been, but 
for HUBs incorrect information. He said that the crystallised portion of Mr Hs pension with 
provider A was already in drawdown and providing Mr H with a monthly payment. And that 
Mr H had originally wanted to take £80,000 as TFC, with the rest being used to fund an 
annuity. He noted hed later changed his mind when hed said he wanted to buy a £300,000 
annuity with the remainder as TFC. As such, although he acknowledged that he had no way 
to be certain what Mr H wouldve done, he felt it was more than likely that he wouldve 
continued with the drawdown of his funds from his crystallised pension with provider A, given 
he was already receiving an income from it. 
Mr H was still unhappy with our investigators response. He felt hed received advice from an 
advisory company. He also said hed found out about the error himself. And that he didnt 
think anyone at HUB wouldve picked it up if he hadnt. 
Mr H also felt very strongly that our investigator couldnt possibly know what he wouldve 
done if hed been given the correct information on 2 November 2022. He said he was never 
given the opportunity to step back and have a re-think if he'd known the problem with the 
crystallised funds. And that by the time hed found out about the problem, his options were 
extremely limited.
Mr H asked for a call with this service so he could make the points he wanted me to consider. During this call, he said that on the initial call with HUB, he couldve asked for his 
full TFC of around £91K, even taking the crystallised funds out of the equation, but that at 
the time he wanted to prioritise a £300K annuity. He said hed previously taken £10K TFC 
and crystallised some of his funds to drawdown.
Mr H said that the annuity rate had been up and down. And when HUB told him the annuity 
would be around £18,500 for £300K, he went ahead with it. Mr H said that after a week or so 
of him doing all the chasing, he contacted HUB to tell it that he wanted the annuity to stay at 
£300K. And that the TFC should change. He said this meant his TFC went up to around 
£95K due to annuity changes.
Mr H said that our investigator was wrong to state that if HUB had given him the correct 
information he wouldve still paid tax. He said he wasnt told. And that when he did find out, 
the process had already completed. He said that the total amount of his two pensions, 
including the crystallised part, wouldve been used on the annuity and his TFC. He said that 
the crystallised part could only go into the annuity, not the TFC. But that HUB didnt tell him 
itd made a mistake. Hed had to tell it.
Mr H felt that HUB had not done much work for the almost £5K of commission itd received. 
And that hed never got the chance to consider what to do with the crystallised funds when it 
had been established that they couldnt be used to buy the annuity. He couldnt cancel it as it 
wouldve been re-quoted and then wouldve been worth at least £2.5K less. He was very 
upset that every option our investigator had suggested he couldve taken wouldve incurred 
tax, because he never got to make a decision on it. Mr H felt that this services approach to 
what wouldve happened if nothing had gone wrong was flawed, as hed never got the 
opportunity to consider his options based on the correct information. He wanted this service 
to punish HUB on principle
Having listened to Mr Hs call with this service, I told him I understood his position on his 
complaint specifically and on the general approach of this service. I acknowledged that we 
couldnt know for sure what he would've done had he been given the correct information. 
And asked him to tell me what he thought he wouldve done if hed been given the correct 
information. 
Mr H told me that if he'd known from the start and couldve backed out, he wouldve stayed 
with his original plan, which was to take around £93K TFC, and use the remainder as taxed 
monthly drawdown. He said that hed vowed never to go down the annuity route due to the 
poor monthly payments. And had only changed his mind about this when hed read several 
articles in October 2022 that annuities were at a 16-year high so worth considering. He said 
he got a basic quote for around £18,500 which sparked his interest, as this amount had 
always been his goal, given it tied in with his current annual drawdown. He said hed gone 
with £80K TFC when hed initially spoken to HUB as it was the nearest whole amount that 
led to the £18,500 annuity he wanted.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. But I agree with our investigator that HUBs 
compensation offer is reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. I know this will 
be disappointing for Mr H. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.Its not in dispute that HUB failed to provide Mr H with correct information about his 
crystallised funds during its call with him on 2 November 2022. Where a business has made 
an offer to settle a complaint  as HUB has done  what I have to decide is whether, in all 
the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, HUB has acknowledged that it shouldve done more to better understand what 
Mr H had told it about his crystallised and uncrystallised funds with provider A. It apologised 
for the confusion and the impact this had on Mr H at the time. And offered £250 
compensation. 
Mr H doesnt consider that HUBs offer is fair. He thinks that, if hed had the chance to 
consider his options when he found out he couldnt transfer the crystallised part of his 
pension with provider A, he wouldve taken around £93K TFC, and then used the remainder 
as taxed monthly drawdown.
When a business does something wrong, and makes an offer, this service will assess 
whether the offer is sufficient to fairly put things right. We want, as far as reasonably 
possible, to put Mr H back into the position he wouldve been in but for incorrect information 
HUB gave him at the start of the process. Clearly we cant possibly know, in this case, 
exactly what position Mr H wouldve been in, as he wouldve had to consider his options at 
the time based on the correct information.
Our investigator felt that HUBs incorrect information hadnt caused Mr H a financial loss, as 
all of the options he felt he couldve taken, had he been given the correct information, 
wouldve led to the same income tax being payable. 
Ive reviewed our investigators suggestions and agree that all of the options he laid out were 
possible and all wouldve most likely led to the same income tax being payable. 
Mr H didnt agree. He felt very strongly that our investigator couldnt possibly know what he 
wouldve done if hed been given the correct information on 2 November 2022. And that it 
wasnt fair that hed never been given the opportunity to re-think his options once hed been 
told about the problem with the crystallised funds. 
I first considered if I felt Mr H had made a financial loss due to HUBs error.
Did the incorrect information cause a financial loss?
Mr H was clearly very concerned about protecting the value of the annuity he was going to 
purchase. Hed worked out that he needed income of £18,500. So he wanted the purchase 
to go through before his fund values fell as this would reduce the annuity he could buy. Its 
entirely reasonable that he was concerned by the changing annuity rates and that he wanted 
the purchase to go ahead quickly.
Given Mr Hs understandable concern about the impact of falling fund values on his income 
in retirement, Im not persuaded that he wouldve decided not to take the annuity if hed 
known that he couldnt use the crystallised funds with provider C to buy a part of the annuity. 
I say this because those funds were such a small part of the total fund he was looking to use 
to buy the annuity and fund the TFC he wanted. They were less than 3% of the total value of 
the combined pension funds. 
Mr H told this service that he couldnt cancel the annuity purchase when he found out about 
the incorrect information as his annuity wouldve been re-quoted and then wouldve been 
worth at least £2.5K less. This wouldve meant a reduction of around £2,500 each year for 
the rest of his life. This is a further reason Im not persuaded that Mr H wouldve taken the path hes suggested 
if hed been given the correct information. It was clearly important to him that he had £18,500 
income each year. But if hed stayed in drawdown, after taking the maximum TFC, he 
wouldnt have had any certainty about how long his money would last. So he wouldve had 
permanent concerns about his investments falling over time. I dont consider he wouldve 
wanted to put himself in this position.
Even if I was persuaded that Mr H wouldve decided to take around £93K TFC, and then use 
the remainder as taxed monthly drawdown, if hed been given the correct information from 
the start, I couldnt fairly say that the incorrect information has caused Mr H a financial loss.
I say this because we wont know whether Mr H wouldve been better or worse off taking his 
annuity, or leaving his funds in drawdown until he dies. Therefore I cant fairly say that the 
incorrect information has caused a financial loss.
I know Mr H considers that hes made a financial loss, as the TFC he wouldve received 
under his alternate scenario wouldve been greater than the actual amount he took when he 
bought the annuity. But I cant fairly say that hes lost the difference in the TFC he wouldve 
got and the TFC he actually took. This is because I cant assess whether the annuity hes 
purchased will end up paying him more or less income that he wouldve got if hed taken the 
alternative path hes suggested.
Therefore, Im satisfied that theres no evidence that the incorrect information caused a 
financial loss.
I next considered Mr Hs points about the amount of TFC he shouldve got.
Did Mr H receive less TFC than he shouldve done?
Mr H felt that our investigator was wrong to state that if HUB had given him the correct 
information he wouldve still paid tax. He said HUB hadnt told him, but hed found out for 
himself at a time when the process had already completed. Mr H said that if the crystallised 
part of his pension couldve been used to fund the annuity, he couldve taken more TFC. 
Mr H said that the evidence showed that he wanted to take all of his remaining funds as TFC 
after taking a £300K annuity. He said the crystallised part of his pension with provider A - 
£10,844  shouldve been part of the £300K used to buy the annuity. So he felt he should've 
got £10,844 more of his uncrystallised funds tax-free. He said hed only got £80K of TFC in 
the end.
Mr H originally wanted a fixed amount of his total pension funds to be used on the TFC - 
£80K  with the remainder to be used on his pension. But on 23 November 2022, he told 
HUB he might want to increase the TFC depending on his total fund value. And on 25 
November 2022, Mr H said he only wanted to use £300K to fund his annuity, with the 
remainder to be used for TFC. HUB confirmed with provider C that it could agree to this 
request.
Mr H could take anything up to 25% of the total value of his uncrystallised funds as TFC. At 
the time of the 2 November 2022 quote, I understand he couldve taken up to around £91K 
TFC.
But Mr H initially chose to only take £80K TFC, and to use the rest for his annuity purchase. 
The income from the annuity would be taxed at Mr Hs marginal income tax rate. Mr H only 
noted that he might want to increase this at the end of November 2022 as his pension values 
had increased. Provider C said it would normally use the figures on the annuity quote, but that it could accommodate Mr Hs request to only use £300K of his pension funds for the 
annuity, and the rest for his TFC.
From what Ive seen, Mr H only found out that his crystallised funds couldnt be used to fund 
the annuity hed been quoted on 14 December 2022. At this point, HUBs call notes record 
that Mr H called it to say he wanted the original rate hed been offered, even if his pensions 
had to be split into two separate annuities. Provider C confirmed that it would have to do a 
re-quote if the crystallised funds were to be used to fund the annuity. 
Mr H didnt want to risk a re-quote, given he was happy with the original rate hed been 
offered. But if hed wanted to increase the amount of TFC he was going to take at this point, 
he couldve accepted the offer of a re-quote for his crystallised funds, and used less of his 
uncrystallised funds to buy his original annuity. I appreciate he wouldnt have known exactly 
what annuity rate he would get for his crystallised funds, but given the small proportion of the 
total that these funds constituted, Im not persuaded that the re-quote wouldve significantly 
affected the total annuity Mr H wouldve ended up with. In this way, he couldve taken more 
TFC. And both the annuities wouldve been taxed on the same basis.
Mr H also said that his funds landed with provider C on 16 December 2022. And that it 
purchased his annuity from that date without the crystallized funds.
By 29 December 2022, Mr H had contacted provider A to ask it not to transfer his remaining 
funds to provider C for an annuity. He felt that if his crystallised funds had been used to 
partly fund his annuity, he wouldve been able to take a TFC of £89,500, alongside the 
annuity he wanted of £18,452. 
I agree with Mr H that this wouldve been the case, had the crystallised funds been used to 
partly fund his original annuity. But Im not persuaded that this means Mr H received less 
TFC than he shouldve done. I say this because I consider that Mr H couldve still taken any 
amount of TFC up to the usual limits, even after he found out about the issue with the 
crystallised funds. There was a brief window between him finding out about the issue, and 
his annuity being purchased. Therefore he had the opportunity to change the amount of TFC 
he wanted to take in light of the incorrect information. I accept that this window wasnt very 
long, but if Mr H had decided he wanted a certain amount of TFC, he couldve asked for it 
then. 
Im also not persuaded that Mr H had ever intended to take the maximum TFC he was 
entitled to. Hes never said that he did. And it appears that he only decided to change his 
initial request from £80K of TFC, to whatever was left after £300K of his fund had been used 
to buy his annuity when he could see that fund values were increasing. So I cant fairly say 
that he lost out here. The previous points I made earlier in my decision are also relevant 
here  regardless of the amount of TFC Mr H decided to take, I cant know whether hell 
eventually be better or worse off overall having taken the level of annuity he decided to take.  
I acknowledge that Mr H has had to pay around £2,200 in income tax that he didnt consider 
he wouldve paid but for the incorrect information once hed decided to withdraw his 
crystallised funds in full. 
I understand why Mr H felt that he just wanted to withdraw all of his crystallised funds. His 
annuity had started, so he had the income hed hoped for. And felt that it wouldve been 
complicated to leave them where they were. But this was his decision. So I cant reasonably 
ask HUB to reimburse him for the tax he paid.
I next considered if HUB caused any delays to the process.Did HUB cause any delays?
Mr H was unhappy with how long it was taking to purchase his annuity. He felt that HUB 
could be doing more to help. And that it was responsible for at least some of the delays he 
was experiencing. He also felt hed lost £1,000 due to the process taking eight weeks rather 
than the four to six weeks HUB had said it should take. 
HUB said that it acknowledged that Mr H felt that the delays had been caused because of 
the confusion over his TFC, but this wasnt the case. It said the delays had been caused by 
the time it took provider C to request funds, and then the time it took for those funds to be 
disinvested and sent on to it. 
I consider that HUBs call notes show that it did what it could to promote and prioritise Mr Hs 
purchase. It acknowledged that it was important that his annuity was put into payment 
quickly. The evidence shows that it reacted quickly to information requests and that it chased 
the other parties involved when necessary. 
I can see that Mr H had to do a lot of chasing in order to get the annuity paid. And while I 
acknowledge that he doesnt think HUB did much work on his behalf, I cant fairly agree, 
based on the evidence Ive seen. Im satisfied that HUB did what it could to get the annuity 
paid when Mr H wanted it to be. And that the delays he experienced were outside of its 
control.
So, while I acknowledge that Mr H is angry and frustrated that HUB received almost £5,000 
for the work it did for him, I cant agree that it did nothing but fill in a form. And Ive seen no 
evidence that HUB caused any delays to the annuity purchase. Therefore I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for the £1,000 Mr H felt hes lost. 
I finally considered whether the £250 compensation HUB has offered Mr H was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances.
Was the compensation offered fair?
I acknowledge that Mr H considers that this services approach to what wouldve happened 
if nothing had gone wrong is flawed. And that he wants this service to punish HUB on 
principle. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, with no regulatory or disciplinary role. That 
means we cant tell a business how to operate, and we cant punish a business. If we find 
that something has gone wrong, we consider how to put things right, on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
HUB offered Mr H £250 compensation for the impact its error had had on Mr H, which he 
rejected as unfair.
 
Mr H said it was very stressful waiting for the annuity to be purchased. He didnt have 
another income and was living off savings that he wouldnt be able to top up. It was also a 
difficult time for him personally due to close family illness. 
Mr H said he had to do a lot of chasing of the parties involved and that hed become fed up 
and frustrated with the whole process. Hed expected HUB to do more to ensure his annuity 
started when hed wanted it to. While I acknowledge the frustration and worry Mr H clearly went through, I think that most of 
this was down to the delays to the process. As I noted earlier, I dont consider that HUB was 
responsible for those. 
HUB offered £250 compensation because it felt it shouldve done more to better understand 
what Mr H had told it about his crystallised and uncrystallised funds with provider A during 
the 2 November 2022 call. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that this was fair and 
reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. 
Therefore I consider that HUBs offer was fair. And, although I uphold the complaint, I dont 
require HUB to change its settlement offer.
Putting things right
HUB Financial Solutions Limited must pay Mr H £250 compensation for the impact its error 
had on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. HUB Financial Solutions Limited 
must pay Mr H £250 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman