DRN-4020392
The complaint
Mr A complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt honour benefits associated with his current account 
after he closed it. 
What happened
Mr A had a Club Lloyds account. As part of the Club Lloyds Lifestyle Benefits with that 
account, hed opted for vouchers to use a particular service. He closed this account on 30 
September 2021. He still had some vouchers which had an expiry date of 24 October 2021 
but when he tried to use them before the expiry date, he found they werent accepted. So he 
was forced to pay for the service instead of using the vouchers. He complained to Lloyds. 
Lloyds responded to say, under the terms and conditions, if the account was closed they 
could remove the associated benefits. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Two Investigators considered Mr As concerns. 
They said, in summary, they didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr A unfairly because the terms 
and conditions said benefits could be removed if the account is closed. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he felt it shouldve been written on the voucher itself that they 
could be withdrawn and he didnt think the terms and conditions were clear enough. Mr A 
feels we should require Lloyds to update the wording on the vouchers and their website to 
make things clearer for all customers.
 
As Mr A didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says Lloyds acted unfairly by withdrawing the benefits associated with his account 
because hed had the account for 12 months, so had earned them and it wasnt made clear 
enough on the vouchers themselves that they could be withdrawn.
 
The terms and conditions of the account say:
If you close your Club Lloyds account, remove the Club Lloyds benefits package from your 
account, change to one of our other account types (without Club Lloyds), or cease to be 
eligible for the account in any other way we reserve the right to cancel any benefits 
associated with the account. 
Club Lloyds Lifestyle Benefits terms and conditions say:
One Lifestyle Benefit per account is available for each 12 months that you have a Club 
Lloyds account and if leaving Club Lloyds the benefit may be cancelled at the sole discretion 
of Lloyds Bank. 
So Im satisfied Lloyds were entitled to remove any benefits Mr A was receiving by virtue of 
having the account, when he no longer had the account. 
Mr A thinks its unfair that this information wasnt on the vouchers themselves and that it is 
hidden on Lloyds website. Mr As provided a copy of his vouchers which Ive reviewed. I 
agree it doesnt say anything about their withdrawal upon account closure but I dont think 
Lloyds had an obligation to do this. The voucher page says for full terms and conditions visit 
clublloyds.com  so Im satisfied the full information was available to Mr A, although I take 
his point about having to locate it separately online. But I have no power to compel Lloyds to 
make specific changes to their terms or vouchers in any event.
Mr A also says hed had the account itself for 12 months, so he feels hed earned the 
associated 12 months of vouchers to use up to the stated expiry date. But the terms say that 
upon closure Lloyds can withdraw any associated benefits, theres nothing in them that 
suggests Mr A was entitled to use any accrued benefits after the account is closed.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds treated Mr A fairly. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman