DRN-3865762
The complaint
Mr L complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (who Ill call VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr L acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The relevant legislation explains that if a fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for the cars 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr L reported a noise coming from the front wheel shortly after he took receipt of the car. If a 
fault was identified the onus would then be on the business to demonstrate the problem 
wasnt present when the car was supplied.
I can see that the dealership werent able to identify any noise during the first two visits. On 
the third visit in August 2022 the invoice explains:
Roadtest vehicle with customer, very slight noise heard, Carried out further checks noise 
present under 30mph and is a common noise of Golf 8's. Noise at greater speed (30mph &) 
is difficult to determine. Inspected and found rear tyres have sawtooth tyre wear (ns worse) 
I dont think the evidence I have suggests a fault was diagnosed. I think the dealers 
comments suggest the noise is common and by that I think its reasonable to suggest its 
normal.
And, even if Im wrong about that, it seems on the basis of the dealerships report which is 
the only expert evidence I have, that the problem may be related to tyre wear. Thats a wear 
and tear issue and couldnt fairly be considered to be VWFSs responsibility.
I would have asked VWFS to commission an independent inspection to ascertain the source 
of the noise. That independent expert opinion would have helped to identify whether there 
was a fault, and whether that fault had been developing from the outset, or whether it could 
more fairly be attributed to wear and tear. But an inspection is no longer possible as Mr L 
has explained hes now sold the car.
On the basis of the evidence I have I dont think there is sufficient to suggest there was a 
fault with this car and whilst I understand Mr Ls frustration, I am not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman