DRN-3543326
The complaint
Mr C complains that PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as Prepay Solutions, restricted 
access to his account and closed it without notice. 
What happened
On 18 December 2020 Prepay restricted Mr Cs access to his account. 
Prepay asked Mr C how he used his account, and he explained it was operated as his main 
account  to receive his salary and for day to day spending. 
Following a review, on 15 January 2021, Prepay decided to withdraw Mr Cs facilities and 
closed his account. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Prepays actions so complained, but they didnt uphold his 
complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly in restricting then closing his account without 
notice. 
Mr C brought his complaint to our service. He said that he wanted an explanation from 
Prepay as to why theyd closed his account suddenly  and compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint  after reviewing the evidence supplied 
by Prepay, our investigator thought that Prepay were entitled to restrict his account, but they 
shouldnt have closed it without notice. And they thought Prepay should pay Mr C £200 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
Prepay didnt agree  and pointed to evidence theyd already provided along with some new 
evidence to show their decision to close the account immediately was justified. But our 
investigator didnt agree. 
As Prepay didnt accept our investigators outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
I asked Prepay for a further explanation for their actions in closing Mr Cs account 
immediately. And Prepay provided further evidence including statements from Mr Cs 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account restriction
Ive considered Prepays actions in restricting Mr Cs account  they restricted Mr Cs access 
for around four weeks, and advised Mr C about this restriction on 18 December 2020. 
Ive thought about Prepays actions here. And I appreciate this will disappoint Mr C, but 
Prepay are entitled to review their customers accounts  as per the terms and conditions of 
the account  and they have certain legal and regulatory obligations which they need to 
comply with. This means I cant say that Prepay acted unfairly in reviewing Mr Cs account 
and placing a restriction on his access. But, I can consider the length of time the block was 
in place and the level of communication Prepay had with Mr C regarding access to his funds. 
Ill firstly consider Mr Cs funds  I can see that Mr Cs salary was paid into his Prepay 
account on a monthly basis. Id expect Prepay, and any financial provider who restricts an 
account, to allow their customer access to their salary, pension or benefits. But, I cant see 
any evidence that Prepay advised Mr C of this. Looking at the number of transactions which 
took place after Mr Cs last salary payment I cant be sure that the remaining funds were 
made up of his salary, but I think its likely a proportion of them were. And Im satisfied 
Prepay should have allowed Mr C access to them sooner  and this caused Mr C anxiety 
and inconvenience. 
Ive move on to consider the length of the review. In total Mr Cs account was restricted for 
four weeks  and I appreciate this feels like a long time to Mr C. But, Im satisfied its not an 
unreasonable length of time for Prepay to complete their review. 
Account closure
Once Prepay completed their review they closed Mr Cs account with immediate effect on 
15 January 2021. Ive thought about their actions here, and whether theyve fairly applied the 
terms and conditions of the account. According to the terms and conditions of Mr Cs 
account Prepay can close his account with 60 days notice for any reason. However, to close 
it immediately, as they did, Prepay need to meet a certain set of conditions. And having 
reviewed the evidence presented by Prepay, and Mr Cs account terms, Im not satisfied 
they acted fairly in applying the immediate notice terms. Although Im satisfied Prepay were 
entitled to end their relationship with Mr C I think they should have given him 60 days notice. 
Putting things right
I think Prepay caused Mr C anxiety and inconvenience by not allowing him access to his 
salary and closing his account without notice  leading him to find alternative banking 
facilities without notice. For this reason I think Prepay should pay him £200 compensation.   
My final decision
My final decision is I direct PrePay Technologies Limited, trading as Prepay Solutions, to:
Pay Mr C £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman