DRN-2924030
The complaint
Mr P complains Lloyds Bank PLC havent treated him fairly in relation to his credit card debt.
Mr P was being represented in this complaint by Mr M. Hes not anymore, but Ill still be 
referring to him in this decision.
What happened
In May 2020 I issued my provisional decision setting out what I thought about this complaint, 
and why. Ive copied the relevant sections of it below, and they form part of my final decision. 
In March 2010 Mr P took out the credit card. Mr M complained to Lloyds that they hadnt 
helped Mr P with his credit card when he was unfortunately diagnosed with a terminal illness 
in 2015. Mr M said Lloyds should have realised from the high interest, charges, overseas 
fees and the lack of income on his current account that Mr Ps circumstances had changed 
and offered him help. Mr M was also unhappy that Lloyds had left Mr Ps credit card open 
after hed taken out a consolidation loan in February 2018 to repay the credit card debt. Mr P 
took this loan out in branch.
Lloyds didnt originally reply to the complaint, so Mr M asked us to look into things. During 
the course of this, Lloyds told us they were going to reply to the complaint and sent Mr P 
their answer.
Lloyds said they couldnt see any evidence to suggest the interest had been charged 
incorrectly. They could see multiple charges from overseas transactions and said its 
reasonable to say Mr P used his card abroad and thats why he incurred charges. Lloyds 
added that if Mr P had contacted them in 2015, then they could have offered him support. As 
for the loan, their system approved it because it showed Mr P could afford it. And they didnt 
close the credit card down as hed said he wanted to keep it open.
Following this letter Mr M didnt think Lloyds had exercised their duty of care as a 
responsible lender to make sure Mr P was ok and asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so. During his investigations, amongst other things, he asked 
Mr M if Mr P had asked for help, or did he take out the loan as his own solution to the 
issues? Mr M replied saying Mr P asked for help in 2018 when he went into the branch and 
asked for a loan to repay the credit card as he was struggling financially. But Lloyds didnt 
offer an interest free loan, to manage the card differently or to cap interest while Mr P repaid 
the balance. Mr M also said that he wasnt happy with the exchange rate fees that had been 
applied, and thought they were too high. 
At this point we had two separate complaints being raised  the disclosure of the foreign 
exchange fees, and the support provided to Mr P from 2015. Both of which are dealt with 
under this one case.
Having considered both issues our investigator determined we couldnt consider Mr Ps 
complaint about the disclosure of the foreign exchange fees under the rules were required 
to apply. Mr M initially accepted this, and our investigator then considered whether Lloyds 
should have done anything further to support Mr P since 2015.
Our investigator reiterated that the complaint we could consider was about whether Lloyds 
offered enough help when Mr P was forced to retire in 2015 due to his terminal illness. 
Specifically, Mr Ms complaint that they should have stepped in between 2015 when Mr Ps 
illness was diagnosed, and February 2018 when Mr P took out the consolidation loan.
Having considered that complaint, our investigator said he couldnt see Mr P had told Lloyds 
about his unfortunate circumstances until Mr P went into the branch in February 2018. And, 
having reviewed his statements, he couldnt see there were any prompts for Lloyds to step in 
earlier than they did. He felt around January 2018 there was an argument to say Lloyds 
could have stepped in, but in February 2018 Mr P applied for the consolidation loan anyway. 
So, overall, he didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Mr M didnt accept this, and in his reply to this outcome, he asked for the complaint about 
the foreign exchange fees to be passed to an ombudsman to decide.
I considered that complaint and in a separate decision issued on 14 January 2021 decided 
our service didnt have the power to consider Mr Ps complaint about the disclosure of the 
foreign exchange fees. In doing so, I gave Mr M more time to send information hed like me 
to consider before I issued this decision on whether Lloyds did offer Mr P enough help.
Mr P and Mr M provided a substantial amount of further information following this. Ive 
summarised in my own words Mr P and Mr Ms points which are, in my opinion, most 
relevant to the complaint we can consider about the help they say Lloyds had to offer:
Lloyds had enough information in 2017 to know they should have stepped in, so 
doesnt think the 2018 date is fair.
The majority of the payments on the card were from a foreign country so should have 
alerted Lloyds there was a problem.
Mr P became vulnerable in 2015 and his spending was reckless between then and 
2018. Mr M doesnt feel Lloyds have fulfilled their obligations to a vulnerable 
consumer.
Mr Ms been in touch with the regulator the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) who 
have provided him with links to the various rules.
Lloyds took advantage of Mr P by giving him a loan, rather than just reducing down 
the interest rate on the credit card.
The Persistent Debt rules havent been adhered to by Lloyds.
Overall, Mr M feels that Lloyds havent treated Mr P fairly and should have done more to 
support him.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to again express my sympathy for the situation Mr P, and Mr M, find themselves in.
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended to be discourteous to either party, but merely to reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own, to every question thats been 
asked.
The complaint Ill be responding to is whether Lloyds treated Mr P fairly between 2015 when 
Mr P was sadly diagnosed with his terminal illness  and 2018 when Mr P went into a branch 
of Lloyds to discuss his outstanding credit card balance.
Mr M has said Mr P first made Lloyds aware of his circumstances in February 2018 when he 
went into the branch to apply for the consolidation loan. Lloyds contact notes dont show 
Mr P had told them about the change in his circumstances before 2018. In addition, the 
notes recorded for when Mr P went into branch in 2018 dont show he made them aware of 
his change of circumstances at this time either. I find this unusual, because if Mr P did make 
them aware of his health condition, then it seems very likely to me theyd have recorded the 
relevant information on their systems. So, with that in mind, I think Lloyds only needed to 
offer more support if Mr Ps account conduct suggested they needed to.
Mr M has said Mr Ps spending was reckless from 2015 onwards. Mr M has also said Lloyds 
had enough information from 2017 to know they should have stepped in and that the 
payments from a foreign country were enough to highlight a problem.
Mr Ps statements do show that the foreign transactions started in 2015, and from June 2017 
to January 2018 there were 14 foreign exchange fees applied. Its not unusual for people to 
spend an extended time overseas. And I dont think Id reasonably expect Lloyds to draw a 
conclusion that Mr P was in financial difficulties as a result of the foreign exchange fees  
nor would I draw the same conclusion looking at Mr Ps statements for that time period. So, I 
dont think this meant Lloyds needed to do anything, such as contacting Mr P as Mr M thinks 
they should have.
Ive also thought about the account conduct. Mr Ps statements show he has always made 
the minimum repayments since 2015, with two credits to the account of over £7,000 in 
August 2015, and over £700 in May 2016. This latter credit was a refund, rather than a 
payment made by Mr P.
Mr Ps account statements show hes not exceeded his credit limit either during the period 
being complained about.
Id generally only expect Lloyds to have got in touch with Mr P if there was clear evidence of 
Mr Ps account being in financial difficulties. But Mr P met all of his minimum repayments, 
never went over his credit limit, and for the majority of the period in question wasnt close to 
the credit limit itself. And for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think the foreign 
transactions demonstrated Mr P was in financial difficulties. So, looking at Mr Ps account 
conduct, I dont think itd be reasonable to say Mr P was in financial difficulties based on this.
Mr M has provided links to the relevant Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC). Ive 
considered all of these rules, but for the reasons Ive explained above I dont think there 
were any evidence of financial difficulties. Because of that, I dont think any of the rules 
around forbearance apply. Mr P was managing his credit card with no indications of financial 
difficulties.
Mr M has also talked about the persistent debt rules. I can see why, as Mr Ps repayment 
pattern seems to fit those rules. But these rules didnt apply as they didnt come into effect 
until 1 March 2018  after Mr P had repaid the credit card with the loan.The terms and conditions provided to us by Lloyds, to send on to Mr M, make reference to 
the persistent debt rules. We should have realised these werent the correct terms and 
conditions, so Im sorry about that. And, having asked Lloyds for the correct terms and 
conditions that relate to 2015-2018, theyve told us they dont have them.
In the absence of information to determine the correct answer, I need to decide what I think 
is more likely than not. As Ive said above, Ive concluded there was no evidence of financial 
difficulties in Mr Ps account conduct. Because of that, I think it unlikely the terms and 
conditions would have required Lloyds to speak to Mr P, as Mr M thinks they should have.
Overall then, none of the information I have shows me Mr P was in financial difficulties. 
Because of this, I dont think Lloyds need to do anything.
I do note Mr M is concerned Lloyds gave Mr P the option of paying off his credit card with a 
loan. Mr M has also told us that hes not complained about the sale of this loan  so I havent 
considered whether it was or wasnt mis-sold. But I have considered whether generally an 
interest-bearing loan is an appropriate step to consolidate someones debts. And, I dont 
think a loan itself is inappropriate to reduce down someones debt. Whether the loan was 
mis-sold or not isnt something Ive decided in this complaint.
I also note Mr M had some concerns about the credit card remaining open after the loan had 
been applied. But I can only award compensation, or put something right, if something has 
gone wrong. Ive concluded above Mr P wasnt in financial difficulties based on the 
information available. And, although Mr Ps card remained open, it was only with a small 
balance and subsequently paid off. So, I cant see that any detriment has been caused to 
Mr P by keeping the card open.
More recently Mr M has sent us in information about Mr Ps current financial situation  to 
evidence his concerns about the credit card and the loan. Any issues regarding the loan 
would be a separate complaint, and as the latest information is about Mr Ps current 
circumstances, it doesnt change my thoughts on whether Lloyds should have done more 
between 2015 and 2018 regarding the credit card.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mr M and Mr P both did reply. Ive summarised what I see as their key concerns:
They didnt think allowing someone with Mr Ps health conditions to build up a 
significant balance of over £6,000 was right
They said theyd noted Id commented on our investigator saying Lloyds should have 
stepped in earlier than February 2018, but then Ive not provided my reasoning for 
why I didnt think this was needed
Mr P also thinks Im not too interested in the FCA rules that were in place before I 
issued my provisional decision 
They didnt think it was right for me to decide the case without the relevant terms and 
conditions  so they provided ones and said requirements were there for Lloyds to do 
more from 2010
They felt despite saying I wouldnt respond to any complaint about the loan Id talked 
about it and that wasnt fair as I dont have all the information to make any decision 
about the loanThey said Id made a mistake in my decision and they wanted to make it clear Mr P 
asked for an interest free credit card as the interest was getting out of hand, but told 
him he couldnt have that and instead sold him a loan  he didnt go to the branch to 
ask for a loan
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to reiterate that I have carefully considered all comments received since 
I issued my provisional decision whether they were made by Mr M, or Mr P. Having done so, 
I still think Lloyds havent treated Mr P unfairly for reasons Ill go on to explain.
Mr Ps financial difficulties
Ive noted the comments from Mr M that allowing someone with Mr Ps health conditions to 
build up an outstanding balance of around £6,000 wasnt right.
But, as Ive explained above, Id only expect Lloyds to have stepped in if there was evidence 
of Mr P being in financial difficulties. As Ive set out in my provisional decision, I cant see 
any evidence of that. And I cant see anything to show Mr P made Lloyds aware of his health 
conditions in the period of the complaint Im considering. So, I cant fairly ask them to take 
into account Mr Ps health conditions when hes not made them aware of it.
Ive noted Mr Ms comments that Ive not properly explained why I dont agree with our 
investigator that potentially Lloyds could have taken action in January 2018  and that Im 
not too interested in the FCAs rules. Our investigator made this comment regarding the 
persistent debt rules  which as Ive explained above didnt apply. And while I understand 
Mr Ps frustrations that a set of rules which potentially could have helped him werent in force 
at the time it wouldnt fair to Lloyds to retrospectively expect them to apply these rules in his 
case. I come back to there being no evidence between 2015-2018 that he was in financial 
difficulties  so theres no reason I can see that Lloyds could or should have known about his 
circumstances. 
Terms and conditions
Terms and conditions are often updated over the years, which is why I asked Lloyds to 
provide us with copies of the terms that were in force between 2015-2018. I thought it 
unlikely the terms from 2010 still applied.
I have looked carefully at the terms and conditions that have been provided since my 
provisional decision. I cant see any rules in here that meant Lloyds had to do anything 
regarding Mr Ps account on the basis that  in my judgement  it didnt show any signs of 
financial difficulties for the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision and above. 
Some of the terms do talk about the persistent debt rules  but as Ive said these didnt come 
into force until March 2018 which was after Mr P had paid off his credit card with the loan. 
So, its not that Im not interested in them, its that it wouldnt be fair to apply rules to Mr Ps 
case retrospectively. Instead, itd be more appropriate to consider whether Lloyds have 
acted fairly  which as Ive explained above, Im satisfied they have.
The loan and why wasnt an interest free credit card given insteadMr P thinks Ive been unfair talking about the loan and that I shouldnt have done so. I think 
Ive been clear in explaining I havent made a decision about whether the loan itself was mis-
sold or not though. Ive noted he more recently has had a further outcome from Lloyds about 
this  and its for him to decide whether he wishes to pursue matters. As Ill make clear 
again, Ive made no decision on whether loan was granted fairly or not.
Ive noted Mr Ps comments that he didnt go into Lloyds for a loan, but rather an interest free 
credit card. Im sorry if Ive misquoted Mr M. But for the purposes of the complaint Im 
considering I dont think it means I should reach a different outcome. I say that because I 
cant see that Mr P was in financial difficulties based on the information available to Lloyds at 
the time  and ultimately what Lloyds choose to grant in lending is a matter of their 
commercial judgement. 
I have significant sympathy for Mr Ps situation, but I can only uphold the complaint if I think 
Lloyds have treated him unfairly  which for the reasons Ive explained above I dont.
My final decision
As a result of that, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman