DRN-3451034
The complaint
Mrs H feels that TSB Bank Plc didnt treat her fairly when she told it of her financial 
difficulties, she would like TSB to remove the default it has registered regarding her account. 
What happened
Mrs H says she has been asking TSB for help with reducing her overdraft for a number of 
years. In October 2020 she decided she no longer wanted to bank with TSB and so switched 
her account to a different bank, but this left her TSB account with an overdrawn balance. 
Mrs H spoke with TSB at that time and explained that she was unwell with a terminal illness 
and that she was struggling financially. Interest and charges were suspended on Mrs Hs 
account and TSB asked her to call back when she had a better idea of her long-term 
situation. 
Over the next couple of months TSB wrote to Mrs H and sent her messages asking her to 
make contact, and Mrs H got back in touch with TSB in January 2021. At that time Mrs H set 
out that she would only be able to afford to pay around £30 per month to reduce the 
outstanding debt, and TSB explained that this plan was too low to be accepted formally. As a 
result, TSB said it would only be able to agree an informal plan. Mrs H was unhappy with this 
and asked to raise a complaint.
TSB called Mrs H to respond to her concerns, and explained why it could only agree an 
informal plan and what this would mean for Mrs Hs account. During this call TSB agreed to 
give Mrs H some breathing space to see what her options were by putting the account on 
hold.
When Mrs H didnt get back in touch after a month, TSB continued with its usual collections 
process and ultimately Mrs Hs account was defaulted and passed to a debt collection 
agency. Mrs H was very unhappy with this, and wrote to the debt collection agency to 
explain that she had been trying to agree a repayment plan but that TSB had failed to 
engage with her, as a result her account was then taken back into TSBs recoveries 
department in May 2020.
In October 2021 TSB once again made contact with Mrs H, via its tailored support team, to 
discuss a way forward and on 2 November 2021 Mrs H and TSB were able to have a 
detailed conversation about Mrs Hs circumstances. TSB asked Mrs H to complete a detailed 
income and expenditure form and arranged to call her back on 22 November 2021 to 
discuss what it might be able to do to help.
TSB did not contact Mrs H on 22 November 2021 as it had promised, but Mrs H nonetheless 
submitted her income and expenditure details  showing that her expenditure exceeded her 
income  along with an offer to pay £30 per month towards her outstanding debt. TSB has 
told us it is happy to accept this offer of payment, but its not clear if TSB has communicated 
this to Mrs H.
Mrs H remained unhappy with what TSB had done, and so she raised a further complaint. 
TSB agreed that there had been a delay in reviewing her account and so offered to pay 
Mrs H £250 compensation to recognise the distress that may have caused.
Mrs H still didnt feel TSB had done enough, so she asked us to look into her complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Hs concerns, he felt that TSB hadnt acted unfairly. 
Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that TSB has acted unfairly here. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
I appreciate that Mrs H has said she was discussing her account with TSB for some time 
before she switched her account in October 2020 but the notes Ive seen dont show any 
evidence to support that Mrs H had discussed her difficulties with TSB earlier than October. 
And Mrs H hasnt been able to provide details of who she spoke to or when those 
discussions took place, so Im satisfied that the available evidence suggests the first that 
TSB was aware of Mrs Hs difficulties was in October 2020.
Im also satisfied that TSBs actions following that initial contact were reasonable, it 
confirmed that all interest and charges were stopped on the outstanding balance, and gave 
Mrs H some time to consider what she wanted to do. And I dont think it was unreasonable 
for TSB to then say that a £30 per month repayment plan was too low to keep Mrs Hs 
account out of the banks recoveries department. A repayment plan at that level would take 
many years to clear the outstanding balance of the account. And given that Mrs H was no 
longer using this account for any day to day expenditure I think it was fair for TSB to say that 
the balance would need to be referred to recoveries. 
TSB then gave Mrs H some more time to consider her options, but when Mrs H didnt get 
back in touch with TSB I think it was fair for it to continue its normal collections process and 
to ultimately default the account. It seems clear that Mrs H is unable to repay the outstanding 
debt in full, and that she can only afford to make a small monthly payment towards reducing 
the debt, so I think that the default is an accurate representation of Mrs Hs financial position 
regarding this account. 
I appreciate that Mrs H is also specifically unhappy with TSB recording that she has missed 
payments on her account, when no repayment plan has been agreed. But the fact is that 
Mrs H has not made payments towards the account since early 2021, so it is correct for her 
credit file to show that no payments have been made, regardless of whether a formal 
repayment plan has been agreed or not.
I do acknowledge that TSB didnt contact Mrs H when it said it would in November 2021, and 
I also think there has been a slight breakdown in communication here as TSB has said it is 
happy to accept Mrs Hs offer of £30 per month, but it appears Mrs H was not aware of that. 
However, TSB has already offered to pay Mrs H £250 to recognise that it could have 
handled things better, and I think that is fair in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Lastly, I note that Mrs H has suggested she doesnt know how to make payments to her 
account. TSB has confirmed that Mrs H should make payments to the account using the details set out in the letter she received when she switched her account (a copy of which will 
be enclosed with this decision).
With all this in mind, I think TSB has acted fairly here, so I wont be asking it to remove the 
default from Mrs Hs credit file or to offer her any further compensation.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mrs H, but this means I wont be upholding 
her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint. TSB Bank Plc should pay 
Mrs H the £250 it has offered to her if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman