DRN-4083957
The complaint
Mr Xs complaint concerns his trading account with Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as City 
Index). In short, hes unhappy with the manner of close out of several positions due to 
insufficient margin and the basis of computation of related losses.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are familiar to both parties. So, Ill briefly recap the key 
points then focus on giving reasons for my decision.
On 28 February 2020 Mr X had several open trades on his account. At the start of 
the day, just after 8am, the account was below the required 50% margin close out 
level, and he was contacted by his account manager to discuss the situation. As a 
result, he closed several positions and the margin increased.
Later that day the account manager made further calls to Mr X, as the margin had 
again fallen below the close out level. Over the course of these calls all the remaining 
positions  primarily options positions  were closed, leaving Mr X with a negative 
balance of just under £85,000. 
Mr X complained to City Index as he felt hed not been fairly treated. He proposed an 
informal resolution of the matter, to include the waiving of the loss, and highlighted 
his financial standing and previous trading record while also noting delays and a lack 
of data being provided to him during the period in question. 
City Index didnt uphold the complaint. It felt the positions had been closed correctly, 
fairly and in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. It stressed that 
responsibility for monitoring of the account, and in particular margin levels, sat with 
Mr X and it noted hed been given the opportunity to add funds to the account.    
Mr X then referred the matter to this service. But our investigator reached broadly the 
same conclusions as City Index and didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. 
Mr X remained unhappy. He said City Indexs systems werent able to accurately 
monitor and assess his open positions in the options products because it didnt 
update its live prices in real time. As such, hed been flying blind. And the difficulties 
had been compounded by the margin demands being made by his account manager, 
separate to the options desk, which appeared to have been calculating the margin 
position mentally. 
Mr X also noted that a related concern hed raised with City Index, that it may have 
had a proprietary interest in his options positions (as opposed to simply acting as a 
broker), had not been addressed.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change is opinion, so the matter was referred to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I was also of the view the complaint 
should not be upheld. I said, in part:
City Index has supplied evidence to show Mr Xs account position at the various points at 
which the margin close out level was breached. And its confirmed that the prices achieved 
for the closures were all in line with the market, or better. Its also highlighted the specific 
terms and conditions it considers entitled it to take the actions it did, and which confirm that, 
as an execution-only broker, responsibility for managing and monitoring the account 
ultimately sat with Mr X.
I wont rehearse all those terms here, as it doesnt really seem to be in dispute that the 
margin level was breached on Mr Xs account such that City Index was entitled to close the 
positions. Rather, I think its fair to say that his primary concerns are with the lack of 
information, of visibility of his positions, particularly his options positions, on the day in 
question and apparent failures of communication within the different departments at City 
Index.  
Clearly some time on from the events in question its difficult to for me to be sure precisely 
what Mr X was able to see. But Ive listened to the calls made to him that day by his account 
manager and they strike me as reasonable, pro-active attempts to keep him informed and to 
help manage the situation. There was clearly an element of stress to the communication. But 
I think that was more a reflection of the trading conditions of the day rather than an indication 
of a failure on the part of City Index. With fear about the impact of the pandemic increasing, 
it was the Friday of the worst week on Wall Street and the City since the 2008 financial 
crisis. 
Following the initial call from City Index in morning, Mr X continued to manage his account 
throughout the day, adding funds and making sales. But there was a further call concerning 
the margin situation from City Index just after 3pm, at which point Mr X had mainly options 
positions left. He indicated, as he had done in the earlier call, that he planned to add funds to 
the account after the weekend. But on a further call a few minutes later it was confirmed that 
City Index wasnt prepared to wait and that all the options positions needed to be closed, 
leading to the large negative balance on the account. 
There was clearly some back and forth between the account manager and the options desk, 
but I dont feel this indicates a failing on the part of City Index. Rather, it appears that the 
account manager was doing as much as he could to help in a difficult situation. For instance, 
giving Mr X the option of prioritising closures and the opportunity to add funds to the 
account. Although at one stage Mr X indicated that he was unable to see his margin 
indicator, this was while he was on the call, so he had the account manager available to give 
him any figures he needed. And in any event, theres nothing to suggest that the margin 
levels that were prompting the closures were incorrect.  
Given Mr Xs experience, extensive trading history and financial position, I can see why he 
might feel that City Index couldve perhaps utilised a little more discretion. But, as I noted 
above, these were extreme trading conditions and I can understand why a degree of 
discretion (for instance, wating for the funds that Mr X explained would be forthcoming after 
the weekend) that might usually have been applied might, in light of what was happening in 
the markets, not be applied on this occasion. Although, of course, City Index would at no 
point have been under any obligation to apply such discretion. 
I think it is worth noting too that if the final closed position  a Dow option  that led to the 
majority of the losses had remained open, Mr Xs losses wouldve been considerably 
greater. Hes quite rightly pointed out that assessment of the validity of the closures should 
only be based upon the conditions at the moment of the closure, not beyond. But I nevertheless think this point provides some relevant context to the situation on the day and 
the circumstances that the parties were dealing with.  
In summary, while I understand Mr Xs frustration with the situation, in respect of the margin 
calls, I find Im unable to conclude that City Index acted incorrectly or unfairly. In my view the 
closures were fair, valid and the losses therefore legitimate.
As noted, Mr X also raised the issue of a potential b-book and whether (or not) City Index 
had any proprietary interest in his options positions, as opposed to simply acting as a broker. 
Having found that the losses incurred by Mr X resulted from legitimate close outs of his 
positions, carried out in accordance with the terms and in line with City Indexs order 
execution policy, Im currently of the view that this issue is unrelated to the losses. If I was of 
the opposing view, that City Index had acted incorrectly in some way when closing the 
positions, the reasons and motivations behind this might then become more relevant. But as 
things stand, Im satisfied this is not a basis on which the complaint should be upheld.  
City Index confirmed it had no further points to make in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr X provided additional comments. Broadly summarised, these said: 
Id mischaracterised the complaint in my initial summary, although Id later 
acknowledged that it wasnt the fact of the margin close outs themselves that formed 
the basis of the complaint, rather the manner and basis of computation of the losses.  
It was incumbent upon me to consider not just City Indexs terms but also the wider 
regulatory regime  for example, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) principles 
around treating customers fairly, from which followed a requirement for transparency; 
principles that were also reflected in the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the imminent FCA Consumer Duty. 
Even if he were to concede that City Index had been entitled to close the positions 
due to insufficient margin, there were nevertheless questions relating to the 
computation of the resulting losses.
Markets operate based on live and transparent screen trading, enabling the 
monitoring of positions in real time to avoid margin disputes. This extends to 
obtaining and displaying best prices. But this wasnt the case on the day in question. 
Prices werent live or real time, which was a serious technical deficiency. It was 
impossible to manage and monitor positions or margin. 
The provision of retrospective data to support the close out levels cannot correct 
these deficiencies and City Indexs actions cannot be supported by observations 
relating to hypothetical additional losses. 
The account managers repeated referrals to the options desk on the day show he 
was also disadvantaged when calculating margin requirements, which were therefore 
inconsistent with the market. Its misconceived to conclude the close outs were fair.
In respect of the b-book issue, a lack of evidence regarding how City Index was 
operating means its incumbent on me to consider whether a potential proprietary 
interest in the transactions mightve influenced its actions. And further, whether the 
losses incurred should be offset against any potential profits made by City Index. 
This issue is inextricably linked to the obligation of fairness and transparency.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. Ive carefully noted all Mr X has said in response to it and reviewed the 
file afresh in light of his comments. However, I remain of the view that the complaint should 
not be upheld, for the reasons given previously.
I thank Mr X for drawing attention to my initial characterisation of the complaint, made in my 
provisional decision. Hell note Ive taken his comments on board and amended the 
description of the complaint for the purposes of this final decision. 
Turning to his other points, Mr X has said its incumbent upon me to consider the complaint 
in the wider regulatory context  for example, in respect of the FCAs principles for 
businesses. Hes quite right in this respect  our rules do require me, when considering what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, to take into account, among 
other things, regulators rules, guidance and standards. 
There is, however, no requirement to be explicit about this in explaining the reasons for 
reaching my conclusions. Although I made no direct reference to the FCA principles, I can 
assure Mr X that I considered whether hed been treated fairly and have continued to do so 
in my further review of the matter. 
And regarding fairness, I dont think its been shown that Mr X was treated unfairly in respect 
of the close outs. I referred in my provisional decision to the telephone calls his account 
manager made to him on the day in question and how this demonstrated that he was, to an 
extent at least, given opportunity to manage the situation.
The account manager suggested Mr X could add additional funds to the account (which I 
note he did twice during the day), and he was consulted on which positions would be closed 
and his preferred order, despite the accounts margin level being such that City Index 
wouldve been entitled to automatically close the positions out. 
In respect of the transparency issue and what information Mr X could, or couldnt, see 
throughout the process, I recognise this is a key point for him  the concern that he was 
flying blind. And I note what hes said about deficiencies with City Indexs systems. But 
theres nothing in the contemporaneous evidence beyond Mr Xs recollections that I think 
really supports this view. City Index has confirmed it has no record of any system problems 
for that day. And Mr X made no reference to a visibility issue during the telephone calls with 
his account manager. He said nothing that in my view indicated he was disadvantaged in 
making decisions regarding the order of close outs because of issues relating to the visibility 
of prices. 
But in any event, I dont think in this case that a lack of visibility, stemming either from the 
overall design of City Indexs system or a specific failure on the day, would necessarily be 
reason to uphold the complaint. The close outs occurred because of a series of margin 
deficits. Once these deficits manifested themselves, they had to be addressed, either by 
provision of additional funds or the closure of some, or all, positions  in his case all, 
because of the very significant price movements. I appreciate it was Mr Xs intention to add 
further funds to the account after the weekend. But as I said in my provisional decision, I 
also appreciate why the very volatile market circumstances of the day led City Index to the 
view that it couldnt wait. Lastly, regarding the b-book issue, again, I appreciate the weight Mr X attaches to this. But 
Im still not persuaded, given Im satisfied of the legitimacy of the close outs (and, moreover, 
the fairness of the overall approach taken by City Index), that its a relevant issue. As I said 
previously, if I was of the view that City Index had acted incorrectly or unfairly in some way 
when closing the positions, the reasons and motivations behind it doing so might then have 
become relevant.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman