DRN-2832131
The complaint
Miss P complains about a loan given to her by Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money.
What happened
In August 2020, Miss P applied for and was given a loan by Madison. She borrowed £2,000 
to be repaid by 24 monthly instalments of £120.37. Miss P says the loan was probably never 
affordable for her and Madison should have refused to lend to her. Shes subsequently 
suffered some changes in circumstances which has further affected her ability to make the 
payments and is unhappy that Madison has refused to waive interest on the account.  
Madison has looked into her complaint. It said it carried out its usual checks when Miss P 
applied for her loan and was satisfied that it was affordable for her at the time. It said that 
when Miss P contacted it to discuss her change in circumstances, she said it had been 
affordable when she took it but that she could no longer afford it. Madison said that when 
she called, it agreed to a repayment plan at a level she said she could manage. It rejected 
her complaint.
Miss P didnt agree with Madison so referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into it. He felt the checks Madison carried out on the application were 
reasonable and proportionate. And he felt Madison had been working with her by setting up 
a repayment plan. He didnt uphold Miss Ps complaint. 
Madison agreed with our investigator but Miss P didnt. She provided more detail regarding 
her financial circumstances at the point she took the loan. She felt Madison should have 
refused to lend to her. As there was no agreement, Miss Ps complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Madison needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Miss P irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss P was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
Did Madison make a fair lending decision?
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
There is no set list of checks that Madison had to do, but it could take into account several 
different things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly 
repayments and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Did Madison carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
When Miss P applied for the loan, she declared her income ad £2,015 and her expenses as 
totalling £917.87 which left her with a monthly disposable income of just over £1,000. 
Madison says it used its verification tools to check the information given. I can see why it felt 
the loan was affordable based on the details Miss P gave it. 
Madison also checked Mis Ps credit file and it has provided me a copy of what it saw. The 
credit file shows a number of credit agreements all of which were being reasonably well 
managed and were up to date. I dont think her credit file at the time showed any particular 
pressures such that Id expect Madison to have felt further checks were necessary.
In view of the apparent disposable income and reasonable credit file, I think Madison carried 
out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Ps application.
Did Madison make a fair lending decision?
Miss P has explained to us that in advance of her application to Madison, shed made 
repayments to various credit cards to reduce the balances to less than 50%. She says this 
money came from a refund of overpaid interest and not from her salary. She implies that this 
may well have made her credit file look more positive than it actually was. But having looked 
closely at her credit file, I can see that shed been able to keep up repayments to them so, 
while the reduced balances may have looked better, the important thing for Madison is likely 
to have been that shed been able to maintain the payments. 
In any event, Miss P didnt tell Madison that shed done so, and I wouldnt expect it to have 
asked. It was entitled to rely on the information it saw. A credit file is generally accepted to 
provide a reasonable picture of a persons financial situation and they provide a great deal of 
information. But theyre not able to provide the kind of detail shes now given us. Lenders are 
entitled to rely on the information they receive. 
Given what Madison knew at the time of the application and the results of the checks carried 
out, I think it reached a fair decision to lend. 
Did Madison act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss P in some other way?
Miss P has said shes unhappy with the treatment she received from Madison when she 
spoke to it about her change in circumstances. Ive listened to the call she had at the time. 
During the call, she says several times the loan was affordable at the outset, but her change 
in circumstances meant it was no longer affordable. The call handler was able to set up a 
repayment arrangement for Miss P to pay an amount she felt she could manage. 
There were times during the call when the conversation didnt go as well as it might have. 
For instance, the call handler added up Miss Ps expenditure incorrectly suggesting she had 
over £500 disposable income per month. As a result of her change in circumstances, she 
didnt. Miss P was understandably unhappy with that, but it didnt prevent the call handler 
agreeing to a payment arrangement.
Miss P said repeatedly during the call that Madison had a legal obligation to freeze interest 
on the loan following her change in circumstances and insisted that it do so. Im sorry to disappoint Miss P but I dont think thats correct. 
Where we find a lender has lent irresponsibly, this service will often tell it to refund interest 
and charges levied. But in this instance, I dont think Madisons decision to lend was 
irresponsible. Miss P entered into the credit agreement and agreed to pay interest at the rate 
set out in that agreement at the time. Her change in circumstances doesnt alter her 
obligations under that contract.
But a lender faced with a customer who is facing financial difficulties is obliged to treat the 
customer fairly. The regulations are silent on precisely what that means as each case is 
different. In this case, Madison agreed to accept lower repayments from Miss P at a level 
she proposed and scheduled payments to meet the dates she suggested. I wouldnt expect 
Madison to have frozen or reduced interest on the basis of the conversation it had with 
Miss P.
Having considered the evidence put forward by both Miss P and Madison, I dont think it 
treated Miss P unfairly.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss P and have every sympathy for the situation shes found herself 
in as a result of a change in circumstances. If Miss P remains in financial difficulty, she might 
find it helpful to speak to a free debt advice charity such as StepChange or the National 
Debtline for help and advice. We can provide her with contact details for those organisations 
if shed like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman