DRN-3803725
The complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a third party, complains that Home Retail Group Card Services 
Limited (Home Retail Group), trading as Argos Card, irresponsibly granted him a credit 
card account he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr D entered into an agreement with Home Retail Group to have access to credit with an 
account that was opened for him in October 2020. The account had an opening credit limit of 
£1,200. Mr D made use of the account but did not make any repayments. There are 
currently no payment arrangements in place, although Home Retail Group has placed a long 
term hold on the account, with no payments required and no interest being charged. 
Mr D, who first complained to us in May 2022, says that Home Retail Group didnt complete 
adequate affordability checks or other checks about his personal circumstances when it 
opened his account. Mr D says he opened a number of credit accounts at the same time as 
a result of a health condition that was affecting his mental well-being such that he lacked the 
necessary capacity. Mr D has therefore requested that is outstanding debt with Home Retail 
Group should be written off.  
Home Retail Group didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mr Ds financial circumstances before granting him the account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Home Retail Group 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the account. 
Mr D didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in 
the round.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Mr Ds complaint is that Home Retail Group was wrong to provide him with the credit given 
his circumstances. Before granting the new account and setting the opening credit limit, 
Home Retail Group looked into Mr Ds financial situation. I think Home Retail Group 
gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and information from Mr D about his ability to 
repay his account. This included completing a credit check with credit reference agencies 
and obtaining confirmation from Mr D that he was in full time employment. The checks 
carried out by Home Retail Group also showed that Mr D didnt have any defaults or other 
adverse findings against him from his previous borrowing. 
Its possible that Home Retail Group could have carried out better checks before providing 
Mr D with credit, such as verifying his income. But even if that were the case, I dont think 
better enquiries would have caused it to think the opening credit limit it gave him was 
unaffordable. I say this because, taking into account what we know about Mr Ds income and 
financial situation at the time, the opening credit limit was reasonable and the maximum 
monthly payments would likely have been manageable. And from all the evidence and 
information Ive seen, there wasnt anything that was likely to have been apparent to Home 
Retail Group from the checks it carried out to suggest it was otherwise wrong to grant him 
the credit. I also dont consider that had it conducting better proportionate checks at the time, 
Home Retail Group would have discovered known that Mr D was experiencing a health 
condition affecting his mental well-being that may have been a factor in his decision to apply 
for the credit and make purchases. 
It follows that I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a more thorough affordability 
check would have led Home Retail Group to think that the credit it provided Mr D at the 
point of the account opening was unreasonable. 
I understand Home Retail Group has placed a long term hold on the account to allow time 
for Mr Ds circumstances to improve. I would also encourage Home Retail Group to act 
with appropriate forbearance and consideration of Mr Ds circumstances with regard to 
any future payment arrangements. 
I know that Mr D will be disappointed with my decision. I am very sorry to hear about the 
difficult personal circumstances Mr D has been experiencing. Having fully considered 
everything Mr D and his representative have told us, however, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
Im therefore not persuaded that Home Retail Group acted unfairly in approving the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman