DRN-4011502
The complaint
P complained about how his claim was handled and ultimately settled by British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British Gas) under his Homecare policy which included appliance cover.
What happened
P made a claim to British Gas when his washing machine broke down. British Gas sent an 
engineer to investigate the fault. The engineer diagnosed the issue, but unfortunately said 
the washing machine couldnt be repaired as the necessary spare parts for that machine 
couldnt be acquired.
British Gas said the replacement machine would take some time to be sourced and installed. 
As P wanted a replacement sooner, British Gas offered vouchers which represented a 30% 
contribution to the new machine. However, P didnt accept the offer.
P purchased a new washing machine without any contribution from British Gas. They kept 
their old one as evidence as they didnt think the engineers assessment was correct, as they 
thought British Gas had rushed the assessment. P wants British Gas to re-assess the 
broken washing machine and see if it couldve been repaired. P wants British Gas to 
reimburse the cost of the new machine.
A date couldnt be agreed for British Gas to re-assess the machine, so British Gas paid a 
50% contribution to the machine and a goodwill payment of £100. P didnt accept this as 
final resolution.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said appliance cover wasnt added 
to the policy until after the fault was reported by P. She thought in the circumstances the 
resolution offered by British Gas was fair, as any remedy wasnt required under the policy. P 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have checked the history of Ps cover with British Gas. When P reported the claim for the 
washing machine, P had Homecare 3 cover which included central heating, plumbing and 
drains cover. The kitchen appliance cover wasnt added until two days later.
British Gas has pointed out that the terms and conditions had an exclusion, where the policy 
doesnt cover anything that happens in the first 14 days of the cover being taken out. In other 
words, the policy wouldnt have covered the washing machine at the time it broke down as 
the policy had only just been activated. I have checked this in the policy. I can confirm British 
Gas has been fair in representing the terms of the policy.
British Gas admitted it made a mistake in allowing an engineer to inspect the washing 
machine. It said it shouldnt have done as the machine wasnt covered. However, I see it has 
still paid a 50% contribution to the new machine and a goodwill payment. British Gas 
investigated the engineers diagnosis. The engineer confirmed the broken machine needed a 
part that was obsolete. Therefore, I think British Gas has been reasonable in confirming a 
further investigation would be pointless, as the part needed to carry out a repair to the 
machine was no longer available.
Given British Gas had no liability under the policy, I think it has been reasonable in 
contributing to the machine as a goodwill gesture. I dont think it would be fair to ask them to 
re-inspect the machine or provide any further contribution. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman