DRN-2954190
The complaint
Mr M complaints that Standard Life Assurance Limited (SL) didnt provide him with accurate
valuation information for his self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
What happened
Mr M said that on 18 March 2020 he called SL and asked them to move his investments into
cash. He changed his mind and called on 24 March to cancel the instruction. He said he
tried to call before then but couldnt get through. He made contact again on 27 March as the
amount in cash was less than he expected, and Mr M said he thought SL had used an
incorrect unit price. He provided a screen shot of the value on 25 March and felt this is what
he should have received. He felt SL should have delayed the move until the fifth working
day.
It took several weeks for SL to reply to his query. He had to employ a financial adviser as he
didnt know when the issue would be sorted and without any communication, he didnt know
whether he could do anything with his funds or whether they were frozen. He said the
difference in values was about £12,000.
SL said it told Mr M it would take up to five working days to move his investments into cash.
The price would be that at the next available pricing point and wasnt guaranteed. Once the
instruction was placed it couldnt be altered or changed. The deal was placed on 20 March
2020. The order was completed on 25 March 2020. SL said it had used the correct unit
price. The deal settled on 25 March 2020, so it was never possible to realise the value
shown on screen on 25 March 2020.
I issued a provisional decision in this case and said the following.
I had listened to a recording of the call between Mr M and SL when he gave the instruction
to move to cash. The adviser explains the move can take up to 5 days and the price is
unknown now. It was clear that once the instruction is made it cannot be revoked and is final
and legally binding.
As it was clear the instruction couldnt be cancelled it would not have made any difference
had Mr M been able to call back earlier and the email, he sent to try to do this would always
have been ineffective. So, I didnt think SL made a mistake in going ahead with the
transaction as instructed by Mr M.
I noted the instruction was placed on 20 March, traded on 23 March and settled on 25 March
which is within five working days as explained to Mr M. 
Mr M said that he didnt reinvest immediately as he wasnt sure he was able to do this while
the complaint was in place. But on the original call the adviser confirmed that he can reinvest
by calling at any time. Mr M says on 6 April and 22 April he emailed to ask if he can reinvest.
SL said it replied to Mr Ms email of 6 April on 24 April to suggest he contact an IFA. Mr M
said he appointed a new IFA around 15 April 2020 and contacted his previous adviser. He
met his new adviser on 1 May 2020 who recommended a transfer to a new provider. He said
had he thought he could reinvest immediately, he would have immediately put the money
back in the same fund until he had appointed a new IFA and got advice. He was worried that
if he reinvested his complaint about the price achieved would be closed automatically which
is why he asked if that was the case, but he never got an answer.
From this I could see that SL never told him he couldnt reinvest. While it didnt reply to his
emails immediately it didnt do anything to mislead Mr M to make him believe reinvestment 
would affect his complaint. I didnt think SL didnt anything to make him think that would be 
the case. So, I cant hold SL responsible for any financial loss due to a delay in reinvestment 
as SL didnt say anything that would have meant Mr M believed he couldnt reinvest
immediately nor that it would affect his complaint. So, I didnt think Mr M acted in reliance on
any statement it made when he decided to delay the reinvestment.
I considered what Mr M said about the price he was given for his investments. SL told
the investigator the transaction took place on 23 March and settled on 25 March 2020. Mr M
had 424,394.3030 units in a particular fund. He received £596,075.92 for its sale. This
equated to a unit price of around 1.4045 per unit. However, the unit prices for the fund as
published shows that the highest and lowest price for that fund in the few days around 23
March 2020 is never lower than £1.41.
Mr M provided screenshots that showed prices on various days which appear higher than
the price he achieved. SL said the prices Mr M would have seen would not have been the
price he was guaranteed to receive. I accept that would be the case if he gave an instruction
to sell on that day. But if he had given an instruction that was being traded on that day, I
might have expected the price to be that for that day or the previous day. But neither price
matches what he was paid. So, it wasnt clear why the price was lower than the prices 
shown on its website for the days around that time nor why it is lower than the published 
lowest price for the fund in the days around 23 March 2020.
I thought it was not clear whether Mr M had received the correct price for the sale of his
units as there was a difference between what he received and what had been published as 
the lowest unit price for the days in question. If he had not received the correct price, I would
propose to direct that Mr M should be awarded financial compensation for any loss due to
the use of an incorrect price. I would also consider an award for distress and inconvenience.
Before I issued any final decision, I wanted SL to provide a copy of any relevant contract 
note and explain how the price given was reached and why Mr M has received the correct
amount and how this related to the price shown on its website and published in the financial
press.
I proposed to make an award for financial loss caused to Mr M if there has been an incorrect
price used for the sale of his units in the investment fund he held and to make an award for
distress and inconvenience.
Mr M said if SL had replied to his email, he would have known he could change his 
investments. Instead it left him with no information. 
SL said the deal order was submitted on Friday 20 March 2020. Forward pricing meant the 
deal would be requested on the next business day which was Monday 23 March. It had 
provided information about the prices on 25 March as these were the actual prices as at 
close of business on 24 March and thus showed the price he would have actually received. It 
stressed again that Mr M had received the correct unit price, the system was automated and 
there was no manual intervention. There were no contract notes but the platform held a 
record of all transactions and prices. It said the difference in price between those published 
and those on their system was due the use of fewer decimal places. It dealt to 6 decimal places. It provided a screen shot to show the unit price the units were sold at was accurate 
and correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the replies supplied by SL it seems there is reasonable evidence to show that the 
price Mr M received for the sale of his fund was correct and the difference in the published 
unit price was due to rounding to fewer decimal places. 
I have reconsidered Mr Ms point about the delay in reinvestment and the absence of a reply 
from SL at the time. But for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I dont think SL 
gave any indication that he couldnt reinvest so any delay in reinvestment was not as a result 
of him relying on a statement they made. He said he was concerned this would affect his 
claim about the price achieved but SL had not given any indication that was the case. This 
seems to be a conclusion Mr M reached on his own and not due to anything SL said. So, I 
cant reasonably hold it responsible for his delayed reinvestment.
For those reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman