DRN-3830774
The complaint
Mr B complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd has turned down an incapacity claim he made on 
his employers income protection policy.
What happened
Mr B is insured under his employers income protection insurance policy. The policy provides 
cover for Mr Bs own occupation and includes a deferred period of 26 weeks.
On 28 January 2021, Mr B was signed off from work. His GP stated that he was suffering 
from depressive, anxiety/work-related stress. He continued to be signed-off each month. In 
May 2021, his employer made an incapacity claim on the income protection insurance 
policy.
Zurich appointed a specialist occupational health independent medical examiner (IME) to
assess Mr Bs condition. The IME concluded that Mr B was suffering from work-related
stress; that there were no medical barriers to Mr B carrying out his job; and that Mr B would
be fit to return to work once work-related issues had been resolved.
Having assessed the available medical evidence and the IMEs report, Zurich didnt
conclude there was evidence that Mr B was suffering from an injury or illness which
prevented him from working. So it didnt think hed met the policy definition of incapacity and
it turned down his claim.
Mr B was unhappy with Zurichs decision. He felt thered been inaccuracies in the IMEs
report and in September 2021, he provided a letter from his GP in support of his position.
Zurich considered the further evidence Mr B had provided and it asked the IME to respond to
Mr Bs comments. It remained of the view that Mr B hadnt shown he met the policy definition
of incapacity and it let Mr B know its opinion in December 2021. However, it acknowledged
thered been an unreasonable three-month delay between it receiving Mr Bs appeal and its
response. So it paid Mr B £200 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this delay had 
caused him.
Mr B was still dissatisfied with Zurichs decision and so he asked us to look into his
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. While he accepted that Mr B
had been suffering from symptoms of anxiety and depression, he thought the evidence
indicated that this was due to work-related stress. So he felt itd been fair for Zurich to
conclude that Mr B hadnt shown he met the definition of incapacity. And he felt that £200
was fair compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience Zurichs reassessment
of his claim caused him.
Mr B disagreed. In summary, he said he was suffering from three conditions at the time 
two unrelated conditions, as well as anxiety and depression. These conditions were all
exacerbated by stress. He says that during the period 2020-21, his mental and physical
health had deteriorated to an alarming extent, due to stress and pressure at work and
extreme pressure domestically. And hed suffered an accident, which had taken some
months to resolve. He felt Zurich had failed to update him for months until it declined his
claim again in December 2021 for undisclosed reasons.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. I said:
First Id like to reassure Mr B that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Im
very sorry to hear about the circumstances that led to Mr B needing to make a claim and I
dont doubt how upsetting and worrying the situation has been for him and his family. I was
also sorry to hear about the difficult situation Mr Bs family has faced during this period.
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each and every point Mr Bs made and
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought about, amongst other
things, the terms of Mr Bs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether
Zurich handled Mr Bs claim fairly.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Bs policy, as these form the basis of his
employers contract with Zurich. Mr Bs employer made a claim on his behalf for incapacity
benefit, given he wasnt fit for work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for Zurich to
consider whether Mr Bs claim met the policy definition of incapacity. Ive turned then to look
at Zurichs definition of incapacity. This says:
Incapacity or Incapacitated means an illness or injury that causes the Member to be unable
to work and is applicable under this policy.
Mr B was subject to the standard definition of incapacity, which is set out as follows:
The Member cannot perform the Material And Substantial Duties of their employment and
they are not doing any paid work.
This means that in order for Zurich to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a
policyholders illness which prevents them from carrying out their main duties of their own
occupation. In Mr Bs case, it means that Zurich needs to be satisfied that his illness
prevented him from performing the material and substantial duties of his role.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim
on their policy. This means it was Mr Bs responsibility to provide Zurich with enough
evidence to demonstrate that his illness had led to him being unable to carry out his duties.
Zurich assessed the evidence Mr B provided in support of his claim and concluded that it
didnt indicate that he had an illness or injury which prevented him from working or that he
met the policy definition of incapacity. So Ive next looked at the available medical evidence
to assess whether I think this was a fair conclusion for Zurich to draw.
The policy says that: We'll pay the Income Benefit at the end of the Deferred Period for a
Member who meets the Incapacity definition or definitions shown In your policy schedule
Deferred Period is defined as: the period of time that starts when the Member satisfies the
definition of Incapacity, and throughout which the Member must be Incapacitated
before we will start to pay the Income.This means that in order for benefit to be paid, a policyholder mustve been incapacitated in
line with the policy terms, for the entire deferred period and afterwards. Mr Bs policy
schedule shows that Mr B was subject to a deferred period of 26 weeks. So it seems that
given his incapacity with this condition began on 28 January 2021, the deferred period
ended on or around 29 July 2021. So any benefit would likely have become payable under
the policy from 29 July 2021 onwards. As such, for the claim to be payable, Mr B needed to
provide Zurich with medical evidence to show that he had been prevented from carrying out
the material and substantial duties of his role because of an illness that had caused him to
be unable to work between 28 January 2021 and 29 July 2021, as well as afterwards.
The first assessment of Mr Bs claim
Zurich firstly assessed Mr Bs medical records, which were provided by his GP.
On 25 January 2021, Mr B consulted his GP and a consultation record was made giving a
diagnosis of stress at work. The notes say that Mr B: has some stress at workknows it is
work that is causing issues, not able to talk to work.
Subsequently, three days later, on 28 January 2021, the GP signed Mr B off work suffering
from depressive, anxiety/work-related stress. The accompanying GP records say:
Doing ok. Majorly stressed out with work undermining him/bullying himrest of life happy
and no concerns.
On 26 February 2021, the GP recorded that Mr B was: doing really well, about to go back to
work on Monday and has been really stressedMain stresses are work and sound(s)
slightly toxic environment.
A further fit note was issued on 15 March 2021. Again, the GP stated that Mr B was unfit for
work due to depressive, anxiety/work-related stress. The consultation notes say that Mr B:
was doing ok, but then being harassed by work/emails/phonecalls.
On 6 May 2021, following the issue of further fit notes stating the same cause of absence,
the GP recorded: Still no further with workdespite immense stress through thisweaned
off (anti-depressant medication). Long chat about way forward with work  major life
stresses.
Subsequently on 12 July 2021, the GPs fit notes began to record Mr Bs cause of absence
as depression and stress. Its clear that at that point, Mr B restarted anti-depressant
medication. Further fit notes recorded Mr Bs condition as depression/depressive and
stress.
Following its review of Mr Bs medical records, Zurich appointed an IME to assess Mr B. I
think this was a fair and appropriate response from Zurich. The IME spoke with Mr B in mid-
July 2021. Ive set out some of the IMEs findings, which I think are key:
He reiterated the significant level of pressure, anxiety and stress that originated from his
work and how it had both affected his mood and probably would be likely to impact his 
performance. It would appear, from talking to Mr B, that the difficulties within the workplace 
are the primary source of any difficulties that he will experience, both in the future and 
currently
He recalls that work with the Rehabilitation Team assigned to him in May 2021 was not very
helpful and I feel that starting this process again, with a view to looking at what the intrinsic
facets of his workplace problems are, and thereafter perhaps recommending adjustments,
would be helpfulHe wished for me to make clear that he feels he can entirely undertake the role without
difficulty and that it is more the jobs circumstances that are causing frustration and the lack
of these being addressed or fixed he feels will result in ongoing permanent problems until
addressed
The IME stated that Mr B noted his mood was normal and that he noted psychological
symptoms arising from work. They stated that Mr B had had some family concerns, but that
Mr B felt work was a much bigger issue. The IME concluded:
He is fit to return when the work-related issues are resolvedThere are no medical barriers
to him undertaking the job.. There is work related stress which is the only barrier to a return
to normal working.
And the IME also noted: He was previously being treated for a mood disorder, which was
due to a combination of both his work related issues and some difficulties within his
personal life. He feels that this has largely settled and any mood or thought problems relate
entirely to the perceived stress relating to work.
They added that they didnt think Mr B was suffering from a medical illness which was
preventing him from returning to work. Although he clarified that Mr B could develop a
medical illness should the return to work not be properly managed by his employer.
Zurich assessed the available medical evidence. While it sympathised with Mr Bs position, it
concluded that he wasnt suffering from a medical illness which prevented him from carrying
out his role. Instead, it felt that Mr B was suffering from workplace stress.
Ive thought very carefully about this. Its clear that Mr B was suffering from symptoms which
can also be indicative of a significant mental health condition. Ive noted too that he was
prescribed medication. But the GPs evidence during this majority of the relevant period is 
clearly indicative that the main cause of Mr Bs symptoms was workplace stress. This is a
theme throughout Mr Bs medical records and formed part of the reason for absence the GP
gave each month on the fit note up until July 2021. And I note the IME didnt think Mr B
suffered from any medical illness.
So I think it was reasonable for Zurich to conclude that the evidence showed that Mr B was
suffering from an understandable reaction to workplace stress. And that Mr Bs absence was
likely due to anxiety surrounding his work as opposed to a mental health condition. On this
basis, I dont think Zurich acted unfairly when it first turned down Mr Bs claim.
The second claim assessment
Its clear that Mr B strongly disagreed with the IMEs report and had concerns that the IME
had wrongly recorded things. He also provided a letter from his GP in support of his claim.
This referenced the two other conditions Mr B suffers from and stated:
I am the General Practitioner looking after (Mr B). I wanted to confirm his current medical
conditions and some that are affecting his current ability to work
His anxiety and depression have had a significant impact on (Mr B) especially over the last
year. He is on medication for his (other medical conditions). He has been on different
medications for his anxiety and depression to help manage the symptoms and is currently
taking (two anti-depressants).
Zurich considered the GPs further evidence. It didnt think this was sufficient medical
evidence to demonstrate that Mr B had met the definition of incapacity during the deferredperiod and afterwards. It asked for the IMEs comments on Mr Bs concerns regarding their
report, which I think was an appropriate response.
The IME provided a follow-up letter in November 2021. Again, Ive summarised what I
believe are the main points:
I am surprised by the comments and the direction of the letter, which moves away from work
as the predominant cause of his issues. I am clear he said that work had been an issue for a
long time. He also gave the impression the difficulties in his personal life were largely
resolved
(Mr B) gave me the strong impression that he had not returned to work, because he did not
find his employer sympathetic, understanding, or willing to make changes. He highlighted
factors, such as not being contacted and not being listened to, as well as being bullied
The IME added that if Mr Bs personal situation was the main cause of his symptoms:
then the same problems remain. That is his issue is essentially problems in a work or
domestic environment, rather than a primary medical problem.
Ive considered this new evidence carefully, together with the existing medical evidence. And
I currently dont think Zurichs decision here is unfair. I have placed more weight on the
contemporaneous medical evidence which was provided at the time of Mr Bs claim and
which showed his state of health during the deferred period. This evidence did suggest that
Mr Bs symptoms were mostly down to stress at work. Ive placed particular weight on the
IMEs reports. Thats because Mr B was assessed by a specialist consultant in occupational
health, who was independent of both Mr B and Zurich. Their findings across both reports
dont indicate that Mr B was suffering from a medical illness  instead, they found that his
symptoms were caused by work-related stress or because of stressors in his personal life.
So I think this is persuasive evidence that Mr Bs absence was more likely due to the 
understandable constraints placed on his ability to work because of the symptoms caused by
workplace stress and his personal situation.
The GP also hasnt indicated how or why Mr Bs symptoms wouldve prevented him from
carrying out the substantial and material duties of his role in contrast to the IME, who found
the barrier to Mr Bs return to work was work-related issues. On that basis then, I dont think
it was unfair for Zurich to maintain its earlier claims decision that Mr B hadnt met the policy
definition of incapacity.
It's open to Mr B, in response to this provisional decision, to obtain further medical evidence
in support of his claim, should he wish to do so. This may be from a treating psychiatrist or
psychologist; a mental health practitioner or further evidence from his GP. Any such
additional evidence would need to be sent to Zurich for its consideration.
This means that despite my natural sympathy for Mr Bs position, I currently find it was fair
and reasonable for Zurich to turn down his income protection claim.
Zurich accepts that it unreasonably delayed responding to Mr Bs appeal. I dont doubt that
this caused Mr B additional worry and upset, on top of his natural disappointment at the
outcome of his claim. I do think Zurich was in a position to assess the GPs letter more
quickly than it did and to provide Mr B with a second claims decision much sooner. So I think
its appropriate that Zurich compensates Mr B for the worry and upset this delay caused him.
In my view, the compensation of £200 it has already paid Mr B is fair and reasonable to
reflect the impact I think this delay had on him. So I dont plan to tell it to pay anything more.I asked both parties to send me any additional evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
Zurich had nothing further to add.
Mr B sent in significant additional evidence, which included medical evidence relating to his 
other conditions; his previous history of mental illness and transcripts of calls between his 
employer and Zurich. Ive also summarised Mr Bs points below:
His struggles with mental health were a chronic, long-term disability;
Zurich had turned down his claim based on confidential information which had been 
provided by his employer in good faith;
Despite his GP declaring him unfit for work, Zurich had based its decision on the 
opinion of the IME, which had been given following a short telephone call;
During the life of his claim, Mr B had only had two conversations with Zurich 
employees. This additional stress had had a huge impact on his mental state;
Zurich had delayed making its claims decision for several weeks after it had been 
aware that his company sick pay had ended. His family had been financially 
dependent on him and hed had to seek endless updates. It seemed I thought this 
delay was acceptable;
Both the OH advisor and IMEs reports were factually incorrect and failed to take into 
account Mr Bs medical conditions and his medication regime;
He didnt think Zurich had clearly explained the reasons for its claims decisions and 
he didnt think my provisional decision made sense either;
Mr B had obtained information from Zurich following a Data Subject Access Request 
(although some information was missing). He felt a transcript shows that Zurich had 
turned down his claim because he had raised a grievance against his employer;
He provided further evidence of his other medical conditions and how they impacted 
his life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I still think it was fair for Zurich to turn 
down his claim and Ill explain why.
Id like to thank Mr B for sending in the further evidence hes provided. Id like to reassure 
him that Ive considered it very carefully.
It remains the case that its for Mr B to show that he has a valid claim on his policy and that 
he meets the policy definition of incapacitated. As such, Mr B needs to provide Zurich with 
medical evidence to demonstrate that he was prevented from carrying out the material and 
substantial duties of his insured occupation because of an illness which had caused him to 
be unable to work between 28 January and 29 July 2021  the entirety of the deferred 
period.
I understand Mr B has formerly had a formal diagnosis of depression and that he received 
medication for that condition. I also appreciate that Mr B has been diagnosed with two other 
conditions, which he is prescribed medication for. Its also clear from the GPs medical 
certificates that they felt that Mr B wasnt fit to work. But it doesnt necessarily follow that    
Mr B was incapacitated in line with the policy terms during the deferred period.In my view, the contemporaneous medical evidence provided by Mr Bs treating doctor and 
the IME during the relevant period is likely to be the most accurate record of the symptoms 
Mr B presented with between January and July 2021. And so in my view, this evidence is 
particularly persuasive. For completeness, Ill set out again what I think are the key entries in 
Mr Bs medical records and the IMEs report (and follow-up letter):
On 25 January 2021, following a consultation between Mr B and his GP, a diagnosis was 
made of stress at work. The notes say that Mr B: has some stress at workknows it is
work that is causing issues, not able to talk to work.
A few days later, Mr B was signed off from work with depressive, anxiety/work-related 
stress. The GP note says:
Doing ok. Majorly stressed out with work undermining him/bullying himrest of life happy
and no concerns.
On 26 February 2021, the GP noted that Mr B was: doing really well, about to go back to
work on Monday and has been really stressedMain stresses are work and sound(s)
slightly toxic environment.
Again, on 15 March 2021, the GP stated that Mr B was unfit for work due to depressive, 
anxiety/work-related stress. The accompanying notes say that Mr B: was doing ok, but then 
being harassed by work/emails/phonecalls.
And on 6 May 2021, after further fit notes were issued giving the same cause of absence,
the GP stated: Still no further with workdespite immense stress through thisweaned
off (anti-depressant medication). Long chat about way forward with work  major life
stresses.
Zurich didnt think Mr Bs medical records led to a clear claims decision. So as I explained, I 
think it was appropriate for it to appoint an IME, who had specialist knowledge and 
experience and who was independent of both parties. As I set out above, the IMEs key 
findings were:
(Mr B) reiterated the significant level of pressure, anxiety and stress that originated from his
work and how it had both affected his mood and probably would be likely to impact his 
performance. It would appear, from talking to Mr B, that the difficulties within the workplace 
are the primary source of any difficulties that he will experience, both in the future and 
currently
He wished for me to make clear that he feels he can entirely undertake the role without
difficulty and that it is more the jobs circumstances that are causing frustration and the lack
of these being addressed or fixed he feels will result in ongoing permanent problems until
addressed
The IME stated that Mr B had noted his mood was normal and that he noted psychological
symptoms arising from work. They stated that Mr B had had some family concerns, but that
Mr B felt work was a much bigger issue. So overall, the IME felt:
He is fit to return when the work-related issues are resolvedThere are no medical barriers
to him undertaking the job.. There is work related stress which is the only barrier to a return
to normal working.
Crucially, the IME said: He was previously being treated for a mood disorder, which was
due to a combination of both his work related issues and some difficulties within hispersonal life. He feels that this has largely settled and any mood or thought problems relate
entirely to the perceived stress relating to work.
And the IME didnt think Mr B was suffering from a medical illness which was
preventing him from returning to work. He did acknowledge that Mr B could develop a
medical illness should the return to work not be properly managed by his employer.
I appreciate Mr B has concerns about the accuracy of the IMEs report, which he raised with 
Zurich. In my view, Zurich acted reasonably in response to Mr Bs concerns by asking the 
IME to comment upon them. I dont think it was obliged to appoint another IME to examine 
Mr B, given the IME was ultimately able to respond to Mr Bs concerns and provide a follow-
up report. Again, Ive set out the IMEs key conclusion:
(Mr B) gave me the strong impression that he had not returned to work, because he did not
find his employer sympathetic, understanding, or willing to make changes. He highlighted
factors, such as not being contacted and not being listened to, as well as being bullied
Additionally, the IME accepted that even if Mr Bs personal situation was the main cause of 
his symptoms: then the same problems remain. That is his issue is essentially problems in a 
work or domestic environment, rather than a primary medical problem.
As I set out above, taking the totality of the medical evidence together, including the 
contemporaneous GP records which reflect the policy deferred period, it still appears that the 
primary cause of Mr Bs symptoms was workplace stress. So I still dont think it was 
unreasonable for Zurich to rely on this contemporaneous evidence to conclude that the 
cause of Mr Bs absence from work was work-related stress, rather than a recognisable 
mental health condition. 
I understand Mr B has concerns that Zurich turned down his claim based on a conversation 
between his employer and its claims hander. Having considered all of the evidence though, I 
dont think this was likely to have been the case. I think Zurich took reasonable and 
pragmatic steps to obtain evidence to allow it to assess Mr Bs claim and it requested the 
appropriate evidence. Had the medical evidence pointed to Mr B being diagnosed with a 
functional, impairing, diagnosed mental health condition which met the policy definition of 
incapacity, I think the claim would likely have been accepted. But based on the medical 
evidence Zurich did have and all of the medical evidence Ive seen, I dont think Zurich acted 
unreasonably in concluding that Mr B hadnt met the contractual definition of incapacity.
It remains open to Mr B to send Zurich any additional, new evidence it hasnt had a chance 
to consider  including any specialist reports or further GP records. It would then be for 
Zurich to consider such additional evidence and decide whether it changed its claims 
decision. 
Overall, I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Bs position. Its clear that he has been 
suffering from distressing symptoms for some time now and from his evidence, I can see 
that this has had a real impact on his life and indeed, on his family. I also dont doubt that Mr 
Bs work-related stress has left him unable to work for his current employer. But I still find it 
was reasonable for Zurich to rely on the totality of the medical evidence to conclude that Mr 
B was suffering from an understandable reaction to workplace stress. And that his absence 
was likely due to anxiety surrounding his work as opposed to an impairing mental health 
condition. I also havent seen enough evidence to decide it was unfair for Zurich to conclude 
that Mr B wasnt able to work for any employer in his own occupation. On this basis, I still 
dont think Zurich acted unfairly when it turned down Mr Bs claim.
It remains the case though that there were unreasonable delays in Zurich responding to Mr Bs appeal. By that point though, Mr B was aware that it wasnt intending to pay his claim 
and so I cant fairly find that it should compensate him for the loss of any monthly benefit 
payment. I still find that £200 compensation Zurich has already paid Mr B is fair 
compensation to recognise the impact of the worry and distress I think the delay in 
responding to the appeal is likely to have caused Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and my provisional decision, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman