DRN-3783578
The complaint
Mr W complains that Paragon Bank Plc asked him to answer security questions after he 
asked them a general question.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator for these reasons: 
I agree that the advisor could have given a general answer by acknowledging that if 
the old details worked then they must be the correct ones to use going forward. But 
Paragon have explained that to check whether Mr W had logged in successfully, the 
advisor needed to access his account and therefore ask the security questions. I find 
what Paragon Bank have said to be reasonable.
Mr W had been able to log into his account, and so didnt need any further assistance 
from the advisor. The call was a short one, and therefore I dont consider the impact 
of the matter to be significant. 
Our service isnt able to tell a business when they should or shouldnt ask security 
questions. If Paragon has a process in place that requires customers to clear security 
at the start of any call, I dont find that unreasonable. It makes sense that the advisor 
wanted to look at the account to make sure Mr W had been able to log in correctly. 
This would help prevent any issues happening in the future. 
Mr W has explained he found the situation tiring as he was recovering from major 
surgery. While I do acknowledge and appreciate this, Mr W didnt let the advisor 
know about this during the call, and given the length of the call, I dont feel any 
compensation is warranted here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman
