DRN-4196736
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his bank account and loaded a negative 
fraud marker against his name. Hed like the marker removed
What happened
Mr S had an account with Barclays. 
On 23 June 2022 Mr S received four payments totalling £5,084 into his account. 
On 26 June 2022 Barclays received notification from another bank, Ill call Bank B, that the 
payments Mr S received were fraudulent.
Barclays wrote to Mr S and asked him to provide details regarding one of the payments. But 
Mr S didnt respond. As Mr S didnt respond, Barclays made the decision to immediately 
close his account and load a negative fraud marker against his name on the National Fraud 
Database for misuse of facility. 
In October 2022 Mr S contacted our service to raise a complaint about Barclays actions. He 
informed our service that he gave away his details to someone online and thats how the 
payments were made. He also spoke with Barclays but informed them that he hadnt shared 
his details with any third parties online. Barclays reconsidered the loading, but thought theyd 
loaded it fairly. 
Mr S wasnt happy with their decision so asked our service to continue our investigation.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ss complaint. Mr S confirmed that he did share his 
details and allow someone else access to his online banking. And he was aware of what was 
happening with the account at that time. Our adjudicator considered Mr Ss argument but 
thought, on balance, that by sharing his security details Mr S would have known he was 
likely facilitating fraud. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked our adjudicator to review their position but they didnt change 
their view. 
Through a professional representative Mr S asked for our service to review the outcome. 
And sent in evidence showing messages between him and the alleged fraudster, whom Ill 
call A. In summary he also added:
He had no idea A was going to carry out fraud on his account
As cover story was credible and Mr S just thought he was helping him to learn to 
trade cryptocurrency. 
He thought A was trading £30 for him
He was preparing to travel abroad at the time, and provided evidence of travel on 
2 July 2022.
Hes learnt from his mistakes, knows the importance of being honest, not handing 
over his details and hes completed some courses to raise his awareness of fraud. 
The marker impacts his ability to get a bank account, car finance and a joint 
mortgage
As Mr S didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fraud Marker
Our investigator outlined the level of evidence required for Barclays to load a fraud marker 
so I wont repeat this in detail. In summary Barclays need to evidence that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that an identified financial crime has been committed or
attempted and they have clear, relevant and rigorous evidence. And that Mr S is complicit in
the fraud.
Its my role to assess whether Barclays have sufficient evidence to meet this standard of
proof. And having done so Im satisfied that they have. 
Ive seen evidence that Barclays received a fraud report from Bank B notifying them Mr S 
received four payments totalling £5,084 into his account. Im satisfied that its fair for 
Barclays to conclude there are reasonable grounds that an identified financial crime has 
been committed. Im also satisfied Mr S is likely complicit in the fraud, I say this because:
On initially speaking with Barclays Mr S informed them that he hadnt shared his 
security details with anyone online. Hes since advised our service that he was 
nervous and realises he should have been honest with them. But, I have concerns 
that Mr S hasnt been consistent, or honest, when advising Barclays about what 
happened. 
Mr S has shared messages between himself and A. Ive reviewed them, and the 
messages do show Mr S was discussing trading with A  and as he mentions the 
only money that is discussed is a £30 trade. However, the first messages Mr S has 
provided show him sharing his activation code with A, not why he was persuaded by 
A that this was something he should do. Which is important in my assessment in 
whether Mr S was complicit in the fraud. 
I appreciate that Mr S is young, and therefore vulnerable to online scams targeting 
money mules. But Ive not been advised of any additional vulnerabilities which might 
make Mr S more susceptible to fraudsters. I havent seen sufficient evidence  either 
from Mr Ss testimony or in the messages hes provided  to satisfy me Mr S was 
genuinely trying to learn about cryptocurrency and carry out trades with his own 
funds. And only shared all of his security details through naivety. 
Mr S first gave A access on 31 May 2022, which means between 31 May 2022 and 
23 June 2022 he allowed A access to his banking facilities. Considering the length of 
time Mr S gave A access to his online banking Id expect him to be able to provide a 
more persuasive explanation for why he shared his security details.  I appreciate that Mr S advises hes obtained certificates to better educate himself about 
online safety, and that reduces his risk of engaging in fraud in the future. And hes struggling 
to obtain a bank account or credit due to the marker. This is a positive step. But, that doesnt 
impact on my assessment of whether or not I think Barclays actions in loading and keeping 
the marker are fair. I realise this will disappoint Mr S, but Im satisfied they are.
Account closure
Barclays can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. Barclays have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Mr Ss account. The terms explain that Barclays can close an account with immediate notice 
in specific circumstances. Having reviewed whats happened here, and Barclays reasons for 
closing Mr Ss account without notice, I cant conclude theyve acted unfairly. 
In conclusion Im satisfied that Barclays have sufficient evidence to meet the standard of
proof to load the fraud marker and acted fairly in closing Mr Ss account. For this reason I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman