DRN-3299661
The complaint
Mr M complains that due to Nationwide Building Society experiencing a technical glitch with 
their faster payment service, his salary was paid into his account late, which meant he lost 
out on a second-hand car deal as he didnt have the available funds.
What happened
On 21 December 2021, Nationwide had an issue with their faster payments service. Account 
holders experienced delays in sending and receiving faster payments - but direct debits, 
standing orders and debit and credit card transactions werent affected. Account holders 
were also still able to withdraw funds from their account by visiting a branch.
Mr Ms monthly salary payment of £1,234.17 was due to be paid into his Nationwide account 
on 21 December 2021. Because of the issues with Nationwides faster payments service, Mr 
M didnt receive his salary into his account until around 8pm on 22 December 2021.
Mr M says hed agreed a deal with the seller of a second-hand car through a social media 
selling site. He says he was due to pay for the car on 21 December 2021 and contacted the 
seller to let them know of the issues with his salary. Mr M says the seller agree to an 
extension until 22 December 2021 for payment of the car.
Because Mr M didnt receive his salary until after midday on 22 December 2021, he says this 
caused him to lose the car deal. Mr M complained to Nationwide and explained that hed lost 
the deal on the car due to their error and wanted compensation of £1,000 for the damages 
encountered. Nationwide had already paid all their customers £100 in compensation for the 
error and didnt agree that Mr Ms situation warranted further compensation.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint but agreed that the £100 
compensation already given by Nationwide was enough, and that they couldnt be held 
responsible for the loss of the deal Mr M says he suffered. Mr M disagreed with the outcome 
and said that the £100 didnt cover the cost of the damage he encountered due to the glitch.
So, the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Nationwide have taken responsibility for the delay in Mr M receiving his salary due to 
the technical glitch with their faster payment system. Nationwide apologised and 
quickly acknowledged the impact of the payment delays by texting Mr M, advising 
him theyd be crediting his account with £100.
In reference to Mr M meeting his bill payments, having looked at the statements and 
having looked at the available funds in Mr Ms account, I cant see that any bills have 
gone unpaid. Therefore, Mr M wouldnt have incurred any interest or late payment 
fees. I also note that Mr M didnt respond to the investigators assessment on this 
particular point. So I wont comment any further. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account say Nationwide wont be responsible if 
they dont comply with the account terms and conditions due to abnormal or 
unforeseeable circumstances beyond our control.
I appreciate Mr Fs frustrations that his salary didnt credit his account on the day he 
expected due to Nationwides technical glitch, and as a result Mr M lost out on a deal 
to purchase a second-hand car. However, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the account and Im satisfised, Nationwide shouldnt be held accountable for the loss 
due to it being abnormal and unforeseeable.
Mr M hasnt provided any evidence to show the agreement he says he had with the 
seller for the sale of the car. Even if Mr M had provided evidence, Im satisfied 
Nationwide wouldnt be responsible for his consequential loss because of the 
circumstances as referred to in the terms and conditions.
So Im not going to ask Nationwide to pay any further compensation.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ms disappointment, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman