DRN-4072565
The complaint
Miss S has complained about Admiral Financial Services Ltd holding her liable for a debt 
which she says was the result of ID theft.
What happened
This complaint surrounds an unsecured personal loan of £10,000, taken out in Miss Ss 
name in mid-2022.
Miss S has explained that her friend of some years offered to lend her money to help her 
start investing in cryptocurrency. He helped her set up a crypto account using her personal 
details, a copy of her ID, and her account number and sort code. He then used those to 
apply for loans without her consent, and told Miss S that the credits to her account were from 
the various businesses he owned. He told Miss S that she might receive a letter which 
looked like loan documents, but she should ignore it as it was just to do with his business. 
He convinced Miss S to forward the money on for his investment scheme, but ended up just 
taking all the money himself. In the end, Miss S realised shed been scammed, and the 
friend began threatening her. She says this loan is one of the ones he took out.
Our investigator looked into things independently and partially upheld the complaint. They 
found that Miss S had not taken out the loan herself, but that shed also not questioned 
things sufficiently, particularly as another loan was paid into her account with a reference 
which made it clear it was a loan. So they thought she should be liable for the loans 
principal, but not its interest, fees, or credit file implications.
Admiral didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is quite a bit of evidence substantiating that Miss S was scammed, and that this loan 
was taken out by someone else without her consent. For example:
The loan was applied for using a phone number which does not match to Miss S. 
Another business found that the number used for their loan matched to a man on the 
national fraud database;
The email address provided was not Miss Ss actual verified one, and was only set 
up shortly before the application;
The IP address used does not match up to Miss S, was based in another city on the 
other side of the country from where she lived, and another business found that it 
flagged up on the national fraud database;
While other personal details were correct, there is a clear point of compromise for 
them as the scammer asked Miss S for them to set up the crypto account;
Miss Ss testimony has been consistent and credible, and is supported by the 
messages with the scammer that she saved;
These messages indicate that she really thought this was a crypto investment 
scheme being funded from her friends businesses, that the scammer took her 
money, and that the scammer went on to pressure and threaten her;
The loan funds were sent on, along with some of Miss Ss own money, and Miss S 
does not appear to have benefitted from the loan at all;
Other loans were taken out in the same period using matching details, and have 
been confirmed as being fraudulent;
Another business carried out an identity check call. Having listened to the recording, 
the person they spoke to was clearly not Miss S, and sounds more like a man doing 
an impression of a woman.
Im reasonably satisfied that Miss S did not agree to this loan, nor its term, schedule of 
repayments, interest rate, and so on. And ultimately, Admiral cant fairly hold Miss S to the 
terms of a loan agreement she didnt actually agree to or benefit from, even if she should 
have done more to protect herself. It follows that Admiral shouldnt hold Miss S liable for any 
interest or fees, nor report it on her credit file.
Admiral argue that they should continue to report the loan on Miss Ss credit file to protect 
her from fraud, and for other lenders sake. But a credit file should be an accurate report of 
accounts a customer actually took out  and Miss S did not take out this loan. It would be 
inaccurate to make it look as if she did. If Admiral want to help protect Miss S from further 
fraud, they are able to log a protective registration for her at CIFAS, which would be more 
effective than mis-reporting a fraudulent loan.
When it comes to the principal of the loan, I need to consider whether Miss S should have 
reasonably realised that the money shed received was a loan, and whether she did enough 
to verify what was really going on.
By the time Miss S received this Admiral loan, she had already received loans from other 
companies, including one with a payment reference which set out clearly that it was a loan. 
I also understand that she received a welcome letter from Admiral, even if she was told by 
the scammer to ignore it. I can see that Miss Ss own bank had contacted her to discuss the 
odd account activity, and discussed the possibility that she was being scammed. But Miss S 
repeatedly assured her bank that everything was legitimate. Similarly, I can see that Miss Ss 
bank gave her warnings about investment scams, but she went ahead anyway. And I cant 
see that Miss S carried out reasonable checks or due diligence to verify what her friend was 
telling her.
I do understand that Miss S was being pressured by a friend who she trusted, and of course 
I sympathise with the fact that she fell victim to a scam. But by the time the Admiral loan was 
paid into her account, I find that she no longer had a reasonable basis to believe what her 
friend was telling her. She should have reasonably questioned things, and perhaps realised 
that she was receiving the proceeds of loans which would need to be paid back.
So based on what both sides have said and provided, I cant fairly tell Admiral to write off the 
principal of this loan. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult 
message for Miss S to receive. But given circumstances of the case and the evidence at 
hand, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.Putting things right
I direct Admiral Financial Services Ltd to remove any interest and fees from this loan, and to 
remove it from Miss Ss credit record, along with any other negative information they may 
have recorded against her in relation to this loan. However, I find that they can still hold 
Miss S liable for the principal sum of the loan  just not under the terms of the loan 
agreement. If Admiral wish for Miss S to repay the capital, they will need to come to a 
separate arrangement with her outside the terms of the fraudulent loan agreement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint in part, and direct Admiral 
Financial Services Ltd to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman