DRN-3752746
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice he received from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a personal pension plan (PPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Mr W is being represented by a third party but for ease Ill refer to their comments as those 
of Mr W.
What happened
Mr W approached Portal in late 2017 after hed seen an advert offering to unlock his pension 
from the age of 55. Sadly, Mr Ws son had passed away and he wanted to release funds to 
fulfil some of his wishes and dreams.
Portal gathered information about Mr Ws circumstances and objectives as part of its review. 
At the time the advice was given by Portal, Mr W was 55 years old and lived with family. 
He earned £9,800 per annum and had £700 in savings. He had two life assurance policies 
which he was paying a total of £15 a month towards. He had a £7,500 unsecured loan which 
he was paying £200 a month towards. Mr W was recorded as having no disposable income 
each month.
At the time of the advice in 2018, Mr W held an OPS which hed made additional voluntary 
contributions (AVC) towards. The main plan had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
of £85,509. This was projected to provide an annual pension of £5,712 from the age of 65, or 
a reduced pension of £3,955 if he took tax-free cash (TFC) of £26,365. A guaranteed 
minimum pension applied to the plan. The AVC part of the plan had a CETV of around 
£4,923 and a guaranteed growth rate of 4%.
After discussing Mr Ws circumstances and requirements and completing a pension transfer 
value analysis, Portal sent Mr W a post-sale options letter in May 2018. This summarised the 
benefits of Mr Ws DB scheme and outlined his options moving forward. Within this Portal 
said its recommendation was that Mr W didnt transfer out of his DB scheme to draw down 
his pension funds as a lump sum. However, with the letter it included a number of forms for 
Mr W to complete if he wished to proceed with the transfer.
The following day Mr W returned a signed letter which indicated he wished to go against 
Portals advice. He said his reason for this was:
I have some personal things to do in memory of my son and wish to forfill [sic] some of his 
wishes & dreams.
Later that month, Mr W was sent a suitability report by Portal. This noted that Mr Ws primary 
aims were to tackle his debt and to go on holiday. The suitability report stated that Portal 
didnt recommend Mr W access his OPS benefits, but instead leave his pension funds where 
they were because of the benefits hed be giving up if he were to transfer. However, it said it 
was treating Mr W as an insistent client and, on this basis, it recommended he transfer his 
DB scheme into a new PPP, investing the funds in 100% cash. This enabled him to take the 
entire proceeds as a gross lump sum, of which £22,608 would be TFC.
Mr W accepted the insistent client recommendation and the transfer was made shortly 
afterwards. Mr W then withdrew the entire pension.
In June 2020 Mr W complained to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said 
that the transfer was not in his best interests and that hed lost out as a result. He noted that 
taking cash from a pension was a preference not an objective and that he shouldnt have 
been advised to proceed on this basis. He outlined that the insistent client declaration form 
was typed up by Portal and given to him to sign. As such he said he was unaware he was 
being treated as an insistent client and didnt understand what the term meant. He thought 
Portal had simply changed its mind and gone ahead with the transfer after initially advising 
against it. Mr W noted that if Portal really felt the transfer was not in his interests it shouldnt 
have allowed him to proceed.
Portal didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr W had made it very clear he wished to 
disregard its recommendations and identified his need to access TFC as very important. 
It said it couldnt have denied him access to his funds in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) guidelines on the insistent clients process and noted hed been provided 
with documentation outlining Portals recommendation. Portal advised it had explained the 
term insistent client to Mr W via calls and in letters it had sent. It also highlighted that he had 
personally signed several forms identifying himself as an insistent client and acknowledging 
the risks of proceeding.
Mr W remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into things and upheld the complaint. They were of the view Mr W was not a truly 
insistent client. They didnt feel Portal had followed the insistent client process fairly and that 
this had led to Mr W proceeding with a transfer when he otherwise wouldnt have. 
In particular they said:
Portal had failed to provide Mr W with an appropriate report/sufficient information 
highlighting its recommendation not to transfer within the post-sale options letter 
(prior to Mr W agreeing to the transfer).
That the risks of the transfer were mentioned in the post-sale options letter, but as 
part of a declaration to be signed in order to access the funds, which they didnt think 
was fair.
That the post-sale options letter would have been confusing and left it to Mr W to 
decide how to proceed - they noted the letter advised Mr W not to transfer but then 
gave him four options to choose from, only one of which wasnt a transfer option.
Portal had pre-written some of the declaration to transfer out, which was leading.
They recommended Portal put Mr W back into the position he would have been in had the 
transfer not occurred, in so far as possible. They also recommended Portal pay Mr W £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its mistake.
Portal didnt agree and raised a number of further points. It said Mr W was a genuine 
insistent client who had the opportunity to stop the process at any time and did not. It said all 
of the relevant information Mr W needed was included in the documentation he was sent 
before he completed the final paperwork to agree to the transfer. It said it had adhered to the 
relevant guidance regarding insistent clients and didnt feel the options it had given Mr W 
were confusing.
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint was referred for a final decision.The complaint was passed to an Ombudsman, who sought more information about Mr Ws 
circumstances and requirements at the time of advice. Mr W said he did not have any debt 
at the time, so the reference to this in Portals suitability report was an error. Mr W also said 
he was trying to fulfil his wishes, not his sons. Mr W confirmed his entire fund had since 
been withdrawn and spent - he took his family on holiday, purchased a car and gave some 
money to his children. Mr W said he realised there may have been an issue with the advice 
when he saw an advert online in 2020. Mr W stressed again he was vulnerable at the time of 
advice and Portal didnt treat him as such.
Portal provided the fact find and budget planner that was completed with Mr W prior to 
advice being given. This also showed Mr W had an unsecured loan with a £200 monthly 
repayment and that Mr W was able to cover his expenses but had no disposable income left 
at the end of the month. In the comments attached to the fact find the advisor had recorded 
that Mr Ws son had passed away and he wanted the money to complete his sons bucket list 
with his own family and his sons family  including going on holiday. There was also 
mention of incorporating his sons ashes into some jewellery. Portal didnt think Mr W was 
vulnerable as he had thought about things in full and was, adamant this is what he wants to 
do.
The Ombudsman issued a provisional decision. In summary, her provisional findings were 
that the transfer out of the DB scheme was not suitable for Mr W, but that compensation for 
distress and inconvenience was not warranted in the circumstances.
Neither Portal nor Mr W made any further comments in response to the Ombudsmans  
provisional decision. However, the Ombudsman was unable to issue a final decision on the 
matter so it was passed to me to decide. 
I considered the evidence afresh and informed both Portal and Mr W that I intended to 
uphold the complaint, along the same lines as the Ombudsmans provisional decision and 
for largely the same reasons. Neither side had any further comments, so Im now providing a 
final decision on the matter
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties accept that it wasnt financially viable for Mr W to transfer out of his occupational 
pension because he was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result. So, my decision is 
going to focus on what I consider to be the key issue, which is whether it was fair for Portal 
to treat Mr W as an insistent client.
Insistent clients
Since January 2018, COBS 9.5A includes additional guidance on insistent clients. It sets out 
key steps for advisers to take:
Information to be communicated to an insistent client
1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent client, in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading, 
and having regard to the information needs of the insistent client so that the client is 
able to understand, the information set out in (2).2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client is:
a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms personal recommendation;
b) the reasons why the transaction will not be in accordance with the firms 
personal recommendation;
c) the risks of the transaction proposed by the insistent client; and
d) the reasons why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client
1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
i. the transaction is not in accordance with the firms personal recommendation; 
and
ii. the transaction is being carried out at the request of the client.
2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should be in the clients own words.
Further personal recommendations given to an insistent client
Where a firm gives a further personal recommendation in relation to the transaction 
proposed by the insistent client, the firm should make clear to the client that this personal 
recommendation is distinct from, but does not affect the conclusions of, the initial personal 
recommendation.
In considering whether Portal acted fairly here, the documentation that I consider to be key is 
the post-sale options letter. Whilst Portal has highlighted there was further information 
contained within the suitability report, by the time Mr W received this hed already received 
Portals advice and had been asked to make a decision on whether to transfer. For this 
reason, I dont think the suitability report can be fairly relied on when deciding if Portal gave 
clear, fair and misleading information at the point of advice as per the requirements of the 
Regulator. Whilst it is true that Mr W could have withdrawn from the process at any time, its 
reasonable for a retail investor, such as Mr W, to trust that they are being given fair advice 
which takes into account the relevant information. So, I dont think its fair for Portal to 
suggest Mr W should have reconsidered his decision in light of the further information it 
provided after it had already asked him to choose how to proceed; particularly when theres 
no suggestion his circumstances had changed in the interim.
Having carefully considered the post-sale options letter and attached paperwork, I dont think 
this information was clear or fair and I think it was misleading. I think it failed to provide 
sufficient information to enable Mr W to make a fully informed choice and it contained 
contradictory statements and recommendations throughout.
For example, the cover letter contained the main recommendation which stated that Portal:
strongly recommend that you do not transferso that you can access your pension 
savings early by taking more than the recommended sustainable withdrawal amount 
and instead leave them where they are because of the guarantees/benefits that you will be 
giving up.
However, the next few paragraphs, which were a lot longer, discussed the tax implications of 
drawing down the pension early  which could only have been done following a transfer.I also think its significant that Portal didnt highlight its recommendation that Mr W stay 
within the DB scheme within this initial paragraph by placing this in bold (despite doing this 
with the rest of its recommendation). This gave the impression that its recommendation here 
was that transferring AND withdrawing the entire pension as a lump sum was what it was 
advising against.
I think this lack of clarity can also be seen elsewhere in the post-sale options letter. For 
example, the options form itself includes the following list for Mr W to choose from:
Option 1: Disregard our recommendation and continue as an insistent client
Take my entire pension as a lump sum
Option 2: Accept our recommendation
Take tax free cash and take lump sum up to 4% withdrawal amount
Option 3: Accept our recommendation
Take tax free cash only from my [DB transfer] schemes
Option 4: Accept our recommendation
Do nothing
From reading this form it appears Portal said it was recommending three different options, 
two of which involved Mr W transferring out of his DB scheme. If Portal were to have 
effectively communicated to Mr W that its advice was not to transfer out of the scheme at all, 
I would have expected do nothing to be the only option it labelled as accept our 
recommendation. Yet this wasnt the case. So, based on this letter alone, I think Portal was 
recommending Mr W should transfer out of his DB scheme, but it didnt recommend he 
withdrew the full sum.
The insistent client form had declarations which stated that:
[Portals] recommendation is not to transfer my [DB] Schemes 
and
Please state in your own words (as fully as possible) why you want to go ahead and access 
yourpension savings early by taking more than the recommended sustainable withdrawal 
amount, even though this is against our recommendation.
I think this wouldve left Mr W unsure about what Portal was advising against  it is certainly 
not a clear recommendation.
So, I dont think it would be sufficiently clear to Mr W, as a retail investor reading this letter, 
that Portal was recommending he should stay within his DB scheme. Instead, it seems to me 
that the only action Portal was advising Mr W against was withdrawing the entire funds as a 
lump sum because of the tax implications.
I also think the weight of options in favour of a transfer were potentially leading for a retail 
client in these circumstances, as was the order of the options on the form - it seems odd to 
me that Portal would put what it reportedly saw as the least suitable option first and the most 
suitable last.
I also agree with our Investigator that the letter didnt clearly set out the information Id 
expect it to. Whilst it gave an overview of the benefits of the existing DB scheme, there was missing information. For example, it only quoted the guaranteed income if a tax free lump 
sum was taken; it didnt look into Mr Ws reasons for wanting access to the funds or how 
else he might meet these needs; nor did it consider what his requirements in retirement 
would be and how this transfer and any draw down would impact this.
The risks of transferring were included in the disclaimer form Mr W was asked to complete, 
but this form appeared at the end of the series of documents Mr W was sent. Indeed, the 
cover letter only asked Mr W to complete this form if he decided to go ahead with the 
transfer. So, Im also not persuaded these risks were sufficiently prominent or that Mr W was 
encouraged to review these as part of the recommendation he received from Portal.
For all of these reasons, I dont think Portal followed the insistent client process fairly and 
I dont think the advice it provided Mr W was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ive thought about what Mr W would have most likely done had he been given suitable 
advice. Its clear Mr W had been through a very difficult time personally at the point at which 
he approached Portal, and that his desire to access these funds was emotive. And 
I acknowledge that this makes assessing what he would have done following suitable advice 
more difficult. I note Mr W selected the one option that Portal didnt suggest it recommended, 
which could add weight to its suggestion Mr W was a truly insistent client. 
That being said, I have seen no evidence to suggest that Mr W had any pressing need to 
access these funds. His stated reason on the suitability report and fact find was to fulfil his 
sons wishes and dreams. Whilst he had since told our Service this is incorrect, and it was 
his wishes he sought to fulfil, I dont think this discrepancy matters here. The evidence 
indicates these wishes surrounded taking his family on holiday. Either way, I havent seen 
anything to suggest there was any time pressure here. And whilst Portals documentation 
also suggests Mr W wanted to pay off debt (which Im aware Mr W disputes), Im not 
persuaded this would have been a need in any event as the income and expenditure 
exercise Portal completed shows Mr W was covering his costs at the time. Overall, Mr Ws 
stated aims seem to me to have been desirable objectives rather than things Mr W needed 
to achieve at that time. So, if Portal had provided clear advice to Mr W that accessing his 
pension to pay for something like a holiday wasnt a good reason to transfer and that it 
recommended he shouldnt do this, I think that would have influenced Mr Ws decision.
I also dont think the fact Mr W selected the only option Portal didnt recommend carries 
much weight given how confusing, and limited, the entire post-sale options paperwork was. 
And as Ive said above, Portal wasnt recommending that Mr W should remain in the DB 
scheme, it was simply recommending he didnt withdraw all the funds at once. So, Mr Ws 
decision has to be considered in that context, that Portal had already given him the green 
light to transfer, albeit not to access the funds in the way he wanted.
If Portal had emphasised what Mr W would be giving up and looked holistically at his 
circumstances, including his retirement provisions and what this might mean for his future, 
Im not persuaded hed have gone ahead with the transfer. I say this keeping in mind that 
Ive seen no evidence Mr W had any investment or financial experience. So, I think its likely 
he would have been strongly influenced by the professional financial advisor hed engaged. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Portals fact find suggests Mr W was adamant he wanted to 
transfer, I think this was due to incomplete and misleading advice on its part.
For all of these reasons, I dont think Mr W should have been treated as an insistent client 
and I dont think hed have transferred out of his occupational pension had he been given 
clear and suitable advice. So, I think Portal should compensate Mr W for his loss using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr W as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. 
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr W whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance/rules to be published. 
Mr W has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr W. 
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms 
on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, but he is unable to work at present. He plans to retire at 
his normal retirement age, so this should be the basis for the calculations as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ws 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20% here. So making a notional deduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr W within 90 days of the date 
Portal receives notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must 
be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal 
to pay Mr W.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. Portal should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000 plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My final decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP 
should pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum 
of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I additionally require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr W any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I only require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr W any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr W the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr W.
If this decision is accepted by Mr W, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial Services LLP. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W 
could accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman