DRN-3462884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Aviva Insurance UK Limited (Aviva) regarding a leak which 
occurred at their home, and damage which was caused. They want Aviva to pay for the 
required repairs to their home. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were insured with Aviva, up until November 2020. Trace and Access was not 
included in their policy cover.
In early August 2020, a leak occurred at their home, causing damage to several rooms.
Mr and Mrs H claimed under their policy.
Aviva prepared a schedule of work and cash settled the claim in late August 2020. This 
settlement included a payment for drying.
Mr and Mrs H commissioned repair works at their home, based on Avivas assessment of 
the damage.
Mr and Mrs Hs contractor installed drying equipment for a period and then carried out 
repairs to plaster and decoration in September and October 2020. 
Mr and Mrs H changed insurer in November 2020 to company S. Trace and Access cover 
was then included under their new policy.
Around December 2020, further evidence of water penetration began to manifest at Mr and 
Mrs Hs home. Initially this was a musty smell, and then later there was measurable moisture 
in the walls around the area of the August leak. 
Mr and Mrs H submitted a claim to S, believing that there was a new leak.
S authorised Mr and Mrs H to carry out trace and access searches but no new leak was 
detected. S commissioned a leak detection report in February 2021 which concluded that the 
manifesting damage was not from a new leak but was residual water from the August leak 
which had not been fully dried out.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva. They felt that Aviva was responsible for the leak and 
should do more to put it right.
Aviva sent its final response letter in April 2021. 
It rejected the complaint and stated that it had settled the claim and that was the end of the 
matter. Aviva argued that any further damage, or damage which had not been properly 
rectified, was due to Mr and Mrs Hs chosen contractors and should be taken up with them.
Aviva offered Mr H and Mrs H £50 to reflect some failings in communication.
Mr H and Mrs H were not happy with this and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that Aviva had not acted unreasonably as the works Mr H and Mrs H had commissioned 
were to include drying. She therefore did not think that Aviva ought to do anything further.
Mr H and Mrs H did not accept that view.
I issued a provisional decision in respect of this complaint in March 2022. That provisional 
decision has been shared with the parties and they have been invited to comment. 
In that provisional decision, I explained that I thought that Aviva had settled Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim prematurely, before the full extent of the damage had been known. This meant that the 
settlement was based upon the damage which Aviva had assessed at that time, and Mr H 
and Mrs H engaged contractors in good faith to carry out repairs based on that assessment. 
When further damage manifested, this ought to have been added to the original claim and 
settled by Aviva. I therefore thought that all the damage which is currently present in Mr H 
and Mrs Hs home is a consequence of the original leak and should be covered as part of 
the claim. 
Mr H and Mrs H have responded confirming they have no objection to the provisional 
decision. 
Aviva has responded arguing that it considers that it discharged its responsibility in settling 
the claim, and that any failure to dry out properly was the fault of Mr H and Mrs Hs chosen 
contractors. Aviva also says that damage caused by contractors authorised to investigate in 
December 2020 ought to be the responsibility of Mr H and Mrs Hs insurers at that time, 
since they authorised the trace and access. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has provided a timeline of events which I have incorporated into the background set 
out in this decision. 
I appreciate Avivas concern that it ought not to be held responsible for damage which 
occurred when Mr and Mrs H was insured by another business, or which was caused by 
agents of that business. 
I do, however, remain of the view set out in my provisional decision. 
This is because the damage caused through the trace and access investigations was still a 
consequence of the original leak, and of inadequate drying having taken place. I consider 
that Aviva was responsible for assessing the extent of the damage before settling, and that 
Aviva failed to fully assess the extent of the damage, and the amount of drying needed, 
before settling the claim. 
This, in turn, set the parameters of the work for which Mr H and Mrs H engaged their 
contractors. 
Mr H and Mrs H then believed that a further leak had taken place and their new insurer authorised investigations. Tiles and an area of ceiling were removed to look for ongoing 
leaks, in places where the leak had been, and which were still, wet. 
These revealed further damage, and that damage was a consequence of the original leak. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, Mr H and Mrs H engaged their contractors in good 
faith to carry out the repairs and drying of the damage which was known at that time. Further 
damage then emerged after a few months, and the evidence shows that this was from the 
same insured event, which took place when Mr H and Mrs H were insured by Aviva. 
This is not an unusual situation and additional damage flowing from the same cause would 
usually be added to the initial claim.  If Mr H and Mrs H had remained insured with Aviva, 
that would have happened. The only difference would have been that Aviva would not have 
paid for trace and access investigations. 
In my view, the damage caused through trace and access was consequential to the original 
leak. The removal of tiles and plaster were in the area of the leak and ought to be 
indemnified by Aviva. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by this document, as my final 
decision. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Aviva should assess the work which is required to put Mr H and 
Mrs Hs home back in the condition it was in before the leak in August 2020. Aviva should 
then carry out those repairs.
If Aviva prefers to offer to settle the outstanding work it may take into account any unspent 
portion of its previous settlement, but it must make sure that the sum paid to Mr H and Mrs H 
(i.e. excluding the amount they paid on to contractors) is sufficient to allow them to have the 
currently outstanding repairs completed. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I also think that Mr H and Mrs H have had to live with 
their home being disrupted and unfinished for an extended period, and this was due to Aviva 
not taking responsibility for the additional damage. I therefore think that Aviva ought to pay to 
Mr H and Mrs H £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr H and Mrs Hs 
complaint and direct Aviva Insurance UK Limited to:
Carry out an updated assessment of the damage and losses which resulted from the 
leak in August 2020;
Carry out all required repairs to put Mr H and Mrs Hs home back into its pre-leak 
condition, OR settle on the basis of correcting all outstanding repairs; and
Pay to Mr H and Mrs H £250 compensation for their distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman