DRN-2938686
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Calpe Insurance Company Limiteds actions in respect of his 
motor insurance policy.
After he brought his complaint to us Mr P instructed solicitors to help him. But, for ease 
of reading, Ill refer to the solicitors comments as being Mr Ps.  
What happened
Mr P took out an insurance policy with Calpe for his car which renewed in 2018 and 2019. In 
November 2018 Mr P was in an accident when he ran into the back of another car. Calpe 
asked him to pay an excess of £3,000. In 2020 Mr Ps car was stolen. He claimed for its loss 
from Calpe.
Around the time of Mr Ps claim for the theft Calpe sent him letters telling him it would cancel 
his policy as he hadn't paid his excess for the November 2018 claim. It later told him it would 
cancel his policy because he was using his car for business purposes, which it wasn't 
covered for.
Mr P brought his complaint about Calpe to us. While weve been looking at it Calpe settled 
his claim for his stolen car. It also identified that Mr P had overpaid his November 2018 
excess. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps concerns. He didn't think Calpe had dealt 
with Mr P fairly. He said it should:
Pay Mr P £200 compensation.
Refund any overpaid excess.
Reimburse Mr P for his solicitors fees.
Calpe didn't agree to refund the solicitors fees so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I asked Calpe to address some queries and supply me with additional evidence. Calpe didn't 
reply to that request. So we wrote to it and said that, unless it responded to my questions 
and provided the outstanding information I had asked for, based on the evidence currently 
held, I was minded to uphold Mr P's complaint. And I intended to instruct Calpe to:
Pay Mr P £200 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Unless it had already done so, refund Mr P the sum it had identified he had overpaid 
for his November 2018 excess and add simple interest to that sum.
Refund Mr P a further £1,426.80 he had provided evidence of paying towards his 
November 2018 excess and add simple interest to the amount refunded.
Pay for the legal fees Mr P has incurred in relation to his dealings with Calpe over 
this complaint, together with appropriate simple interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Ps made a number of detailed points. Ive considered 
everything hes said and everything on file carefully. But in this decision I don't intend to 
address each point made. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues following our investigators assessment of the complaint. 
Excess
Mr P has an all sections excess policy with Calpe. The terms of that policy mean that for 
any claim made against it, including a claim from a third party, Mr P would have to pay an 
excess of up to £3,000 towards the cost of the claim. 
In November 2018 Mr P was in an accident with another car and the driver claimed against 
Mr Ps policy. Calpe settled the claim and asked Mr P to pay his £3,000 excess. Calpe said 
that Mr P didn't pay that excess straightaway, so it told him it would cancel his policy. Mr P 
then paid the full £3,000 excess, although he said hed already made a payment towards it. 
But, it appears that Calpe has taken more than it should have done by way of excess 
payment from Mr P. Thats for two reasons, as I've set out below.
First, Mr Ps car was also damaged in the accident. Calpe assessed that the repairs to 
Mr Ps car would cost around £2,022. But Calpe didn't repair Mr Ps car. And as the costs of 
those repairs are something covered by Mr Ps policy, I would have expected Calpe to offset 
the costs of those repairs from Mr Ps excess. In other words it should have only asked Mr P 
to pay an excess of around £978, being the difference between the costs to repair his car 
and his £3,000 excess. But instead Calpe told Mr P he had to pay the full £3,000. 
While weve been looking into this complaint Calpe identified it should have reduced the sum 
it was asking Mr P to pay. And it said it would arrange to refund the amount hed overpaid.  I 
understand that it couldn't pay that refund initially because Mr P didn't reply to its requests 
for his bank details. But I don't think it was fair that it charged Mr P the full £3,000 initially. 
So, as hes been without the use of the money, I think Calpe should pay him interest on the 
refund, at a rate of 8% a year simple, from the date he paid the excess to the date it first 
offered to refund him.
The second reason Calpe appears to have overcharged Mr P for his excess is because hes 
shown us evidence that he made a payment of £1,426.80 to Calpe, which he said was a 
contribution towards his excess. We asked Calpe if it agreed that this was an excess 
payment but it didn't reply. So, as I have no evidence to the contrary, I accept Mr Ps 
account that this payment was a contribution towards his November 2018 excess. It follows 
that it wasn't fair that Calpe didn't deduct that amount when it asked him to pay his full 
£3,000 excess. To put things right Calpe must refund the £1,426.80 to Mr P, and add simple 
interest to it, at a rate of 8%, from the date he made his full £3,000 excess payment (after 
Calpe said he hadn't paid any excess previously) to the date it refunds him.
Service and legal fees
Before Mr Ps car was stolen, Calpe wrote to him and told him that it didn't intend to cover 
him for the November 2018 accident because he hadn't provided it with a DVLA check code. It told him it wasn't covering the claim and he would have to repay its outlay (what it had paid 
to settle the third partys claim) of around £11,000. But, after he provided the DVLA check 
code, Calpe told Mr P it would cover him for the 2018 accident and he didn't have to pay it 
anything other than his excess. 
Around the time of the car theft Calpe wrote to Mr P to say it intended to cancel his policy 
because he hadn't paid his excess. Later, after hed paid Calpe a further £3,000 excess 
payment, it told him it would cancel his policy because he had been using his car for 
business purposes, specifically for the carriage of own goods. I understand Mr P was 
concerned that Calpe was trying to cancel his policy as if it hadn't existed and to refuse to 
pay his claim for his stolen car. And because of that fear he instructed solicitors to pursue 
the matter for him, causing him to incur significant legal costs.
I can see that Calpes correspondence has at times been delayed and unclear. And 
I understand why Mr P found this confusing and concerning. Those concerns led him to 
instruct solicitors to help him. Whilst that wouldnt necessarily generally give me cause to say 
Calpe should cover those fees, I think it should here, and Ill explain why. I asked Calpe to 
provide some clarity in relation to some of its correspondence. But it didn't reply. And, I can 
see why the confusion Calpes correspondence caused has led Mr P to instruct solicitors. 
This is something I think Calpe could have avoided with clearer communication. So, in the 
specific circumstances of this complaint, I think Calpe should pay for the legal fees Mr P has 
incurred in relation to his dealings with it over this complaint. If he has already paid the 
solicitors fees then Calpe should refund him and add simple interest to its refund as set out 
below.
Compensation
As Ive indicated above, Calpes correspondence has sometimes been unclear and 
confusing. And as a result Mr P was concerned that it was going to unfairly refuse to pay his 
claim for the theft of his car. And thats been the source of distress and inconvenience for 
him. To address that I think Calpe should pay him £200 compensation. If it has already paid 
him £200 compensation recommended by our investigator it need not make any further 
payment. But, if it hasn't made a compensation payment to date then It will need to pay him 
£200. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. Unless it has already done so I 
require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr P £200 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Refund Mr P the sum Calpe had already identified he had overpaid for his 
November 2018 excess I understand that figure to be £978. Calpe should add simple 
interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date he paid the £3,000 excess 
to the date it first offered to refund him1.
Refund Mr P £1,426.80 he had paid previously towards his November 2018 excess. 
Calpe should also add simple interest to the amount refunded, at a rate of 8% a year, 
1 If Calpe considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
interest it pays to Mr P, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.from the date he made his £3,000 excess payment (after Calpe said he hadn't made 
any excess payment at all) to the date it refunds him.
Calpe should pay for the legal fees Mr P has incurred in relation to his dealings with it 
over this complaint. If he has already paid the solicitors fees then Calpe should 
refund him and add simple interest to its refund, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date 
Mr P paid the fees to the date Calpe refunds him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman