DRN-1819234
The complaint
Miss C complains about the service shes received from Policy Services Limited. She 
doesnt think theyve properly managed her investment policy. 
What happened 
Miss C took out the investment policy in 2009 through another business (B1) when she was 
living abroad. They closed for new business in 2011 and her investment was transferred to 
Policy Services. At the time B1 wrote to all policy holders about the transfer and advised that 
Policy Services would perform an administrative service only. They also explained there was 
the option to use another administrator if that was preferable.
Miss C complained to Policy Services in 2019. She was unhappy with the performance of 
the investment and thought that Policy Services should have been doing more to oversee 
the investment as shed been paying them commission.
Policy Services didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary:
Their role was predominantly administrative, and this was made clear in the letter 
Miss C received from B1 in 2011.
Miss C was told by B1 she could retain another adviser but didnt choose to do 
so.
They were able to offer advice to clients, but while Miss C was living outside of 
the UK, they wouldnt have offered an advice service.
They had forwarded annual statements and other pieces of correspondence to 
Miss C over several years and had also performed other administrative tasks 
such as notifying the policy provider of changes of address and notifications of 
overdue premiums.
They considered the amount of commission theyd received to be reasonable for 
providing valuations and keeping her updated with plan information.
Miss C then brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought, in summary:
It had been clear from the outset that Policy Services only provided administrative 
services. 
He didnt think their charges were excessive.
If Miss C wanted advice, she could have used another service as she was told in 
the letter she received from B1 in 2011. 
When she returned to the UK in 2014, she had a discussion with Policy Services 
about the services they provided where they reiterated they couldnt provide 
advice for her finances and suggested that she discussed her situation with an 
independent financial adviser. She acknowledged this in an email to them and 
said she would consider other options.
Miss C didnt agree with his opinion. She thought, in summary:
When she took the policy out, it was on the agreement that it was going to be 
overlooked by a financial adviser and her investments would be managed.
B1 should have given her options of other advisers if they were no longer going to 
provide this service and not just pass it on to another company stating no advisory 
services were to be provided.
Policy Services sent her a letter saying they were her financial adviser for certain 
products. If there was other correspondence to the contrary this letter was totally 
misleading and did not give her any reason to take urgent action in regard to finding 
a reputable financial advisor who would review and advise on the funds rather than 
just take commission. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion. Because theres been no agreement, 
the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
Within this decision I can only consider the acts or omissions of Policy Services. So, Ive 
carefully considered whether they made an error or treated Miss C unfairly and if so, what 
impact this had. Having reviewed all the evidence on file, I think the crux of this complaint is 
around the performance of the investment policy and if Policy Services had a responsibility 
to give Miss C advice about it or actively manage it.
Miss Cs policy started before administration was transferred to Policy Services in 2011. B1 
sold her the policy and they appear to have been responsible for advising her about the 
ongoing suitability of the policy. In 2011 they wrote to her to explain that they would be 
concentrating on their work as a senior partner of another business (B2). They said they 
were closing for new business and steps would then be taken to surrender their Financial 
Services Licence on the Isle of Man.
The letter went on say that the ongoing servicing and administration of her policy would be 
taken over by Policy Services. The letter said Policy Services will continue to provide your 
regular valuations and offer the full support of their back office staff. There was a link 
provided in the letter which gave more detail on the administrative services provided by 
Policy Services in relation to the investment policy. 
So Im satisfied that the role of Policy Services was defined in the letter Miss C received. 
She could have used the link provided to get more detail around exactly which services they 
would provide or gotten in touch with B1 if she had any queries.
I cant see that any agreement was ever made with Policy Services to assess Miss Cs 
circumstances and give advice about the policy. Ive seen details of the work they undertook 
concerning the policy since 2011. This primarily appears to be providing her with valuations 
and providing notifications of changes of details or overdue premiums. There isnt any 
documentary evidence to show that they gave advice on the policy at any time, or to show 
they reviewed or promised to review the policy.
Ive seen an email exchange from 2013 where Miss C says Sorry to bother you with this 
and I quite understand if you are not at liberty to advise me on this but I dont have any 
financial advisor to rely on once B1 folded and they are the Company that advised me to take up this policy in the first place. Miss C has said that the conversation was in relation to 
another policy, and while this is correct, I think it shows that she was aware she didnt have a 
financial adviser in place and importantly, that she recognised Policy Services were not at 
liberty to advise.
I appreciate that the letter Policy Services sent to her in 2019 said that they were her 
financial adviser for some products, and this may have been confusing. But this letter was 
sent because of regulatory changes which required firms to disclose costs and charges 
information. And it went on to say they were writing to let her know details of any income 
theyd received in relation to her policy. 
So, taking everything into account, I havent seen anything to suggest that Policy Services 
had any responsibility or agreement to oversee Miss Cs policy and provide her with advice. 
It follows that they had no responsibility in regard to the performance of Miss Cs policy. 
Therefore, Im unable to fairly uphold Miss Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 October 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman