DRN-3669790
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited under 
her HomeCare policy. She believes it should have diagnosed an issue with her radiator 
during annual services.
Mrs Bs daughter brought this complaint to our service. But for clarity  Ill refer to all 
submissions as being made by Mrs B directly.
What happened
Mrs B holds a HomeCare policy of insurance, which shes held since around 2016. This 
policy covers her for issues relating to her boiler, controls and central heating. It includes an 
annual service and repairs to plumbing, drains and home electrics. Mrs B has had her boiler 
annually serviced by British Gas since the inception of her policy.
In around July 2021, Mrs B became aware that a radiator within the downstairs of her 
property was continuously on. This coincided with her spending more time at home and a 
friend suggested this could be due to the radiator being incorrectly configured.
Mrs B contacted British Gas and requested the attendance of an engineer to diagnose the 
problem with the radiator. An engineer attended and inspected the radiator and serviced the 
boiler at the same time. They confirmed what Mrs Bs friend had suggested and rectified the 
problem.
After this visit, Mrs B complained to British Gas. She felt it should have identified the issue 
when engineers had visited her property to undertake annual services over the years. And 
she argued that it should compensate her in order to recognise that the error had caused her 
to pay higher energy bills. She also requested a refund of the service charges shed paid.
British Gas investigated Mrs Bs complaint. However, there was a delay in it responding. 
When it did respond to her concerns it said its engineers hadnt identified any issues with the 
radiator in question as Mrs B hadnt made them aware of the issue during previous service 
visits. It also stated that, once it had been aware of the issue, it had attended Mrs Bs 
property and resolved the problem. It therefore didnt think it had made an error but it 
accepted it hadnt responded as promptly as it ought to have in relation to Mrs Bs complaint 
and offered her £50 as a gesture of goodwill to recognise any delay.
Being unhappy with British Gas response to her complaint, Mrs B complained to our service. 
Her complaint was considered by our investigator, who didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they thought British Gas had acted fairly and reasonably. 
British Gas agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs B didnt. She 
requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair 
and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mrs B and British Gas for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and, if I havent 
specifically referred to a point that Mrs B or British Gas have made it isnt because I havent 
considered it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach 
that reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs B experienced here. I recognise that she incurred 
a financial loss as a result of the issue with her radiator because this led to an increase in 
her energy costs. And I know she feels very strongly about this matter. But, while I 
sympathise with Mrs B, the issue that I must determine is whether I think British Gas made a 
mistake, or treated her unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. In thinking about 
this, Ive considered things from both sides and Ill explain why Im not going to be able to 
help Mrs B in the way shed like.
The available evidence demonstrates that a radiator within Mrs Bs property was incorrectly 
configured, which meant it was connected to the water. This error caused the radiator to be 
on continuously rather than being active on demand and this caused Mrs Bs energy bills to 
be more expensive over the years.
Mrs B has told our service that the incorrectly configured radiator is in her dining room. From 
what Ive seen, its reasonable to infer that this is a room thats been in regular use since the 
radiator was incorrectly installed, which was in around 2009. Mrs B has confirmed that this 
radiator was not installed or connected to Mrs Bs water by British Gas. It therefore isnt 
responsible for causing the error. 
The Homecare policy that Mrs B holds is an insurance policy. Under the terms of a policy 
British Gas is obliged to undertake an annual service. But the policy also places an 
obligation on the policyholder to report any problems with the boiler, controls, central 
heating, plumbing, drains and home electrics so that British Gas can undertake any 
necessary repairs that the policy covers and do so promptly.
Due to the age of Mrs Bs boiler, it isnt compatible with the boiler IQ hardware that British 
Gas offer its customers. This hardware permits British Gas to monitor a boiler remotely. So, 
it can detect whether the boiler is failing to provide heat or hot water. This tool therefore 
wasnt available to British Gas here.
The terms of Mrs Bs Homecare policy define an annual service as:
a check in each period of agreement to ensure that your boiler, gas appliance or central 
heating, and ventilation is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations. 
The terms go on to state:
one of our engineers will visit your home to complete your annual service. This will include 
testing the gases your appliance or boiler produces. If the visit shows that its necessary to 
take your appliance or boiler apart to adjust or clean it, well do so.
The evidence Ive seen persuades me that an annual service would include a boiler service 
and an inspection to ensure there were no leaks or other issues. The main purpose of the service is to inspect the boiler. Id also expect any visual problems with other systems 
covered by the policy to be identified during a service visit. 
Mrs B has stated that she would have expected an engineer to have identified the issue with 
her radiator during service visits. But, based on the available information, Im satisfied that a 
service wouldnt necessarily identify when and for how long a radiator was on unless an 
engineer had been informed that the radiator was on continuously when this wasnt what a 
policyholder wanted. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect an engineer to be aware of an 
issue of this nature, during a service visit, unless a customer reported a problem at that time.
Mrs B has confirmed that she wasnt aware of the problem with her radiator until around July 
2021 and this meant that she couldnt bring the issue to the attention of British Gas until this 
time. When she made British Gas aware of the problem, I can see it dispatched an engineer 
to her home who identified the issue and resolved it. There was no delay in the action British 
Gas took. And Im persuaded that, had British Gas been notified of the fault during an earlier 
service, it would have, most likely, rectified it during that visit as happened once the problem 
was reported by Mrs B. I therefore cant say it made a mistake.
Mrs B has told our service that she wants me to direct British Gas to refund her service 
costs. But Ive already explained why Im not persuaded that British Gas ought to have 
detected and rectified the error until it was made aware of it. The evidence demonstrates 
that British Gas has been appropriately servicing Mrs Bs boiler under the terms of her 
Homecare policy each year. So, I cant fairly tell it to refund the service charges shes paid. 
And, because I havent found evidence that British Gas erred, I cant ask it to compensate 
Mrs B for the additional costs shes incurred with her energy bills because of the problem 
with her radiator.
I can see that British Gas offered Mrs B £50 as a gesture of goodwill to reflect any delay she 
experienced in it dealing with her complaint. Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to 
look at how businesses deal with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under 
the legislation that governs our service. So, even if I did think British Gas hadnt done things 
well in this regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mrs Bs concerns or make an 
award. I cant act outside the law. I therefore wont comment any further on how British Gas 
dealt with Mrs Bs complaint.
I know that Mrs B will be disappointed by this decision. But I havent seen enough evidence 
to persuade me to uphold this complaint. Im not satisfied that British Gas acted unfairly. So, 
I wont be directing it to do anything else to resolve this complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mrs Bs dispute with British Gas 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mrs B any further with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman