DRN-3687998
Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost to a scam.
Background
Mr W established contact with someone on a popular networking website. They told him that 
they had a family member who worked at the Hong Kong stock exchange and that theyd 
shared an investment tip based on some insider knowledge. Specifically, he said that his 
contact told him her family member was privy to some first-hand information, and that she 
had made a lot of money by taking his advice.
He transferred funds to an account he set up with a brokerage firm based in the United 
States. This gave him access to a trading platform which allowed him to buy shares in that 
company. Unfortunately, the value of those shares didnt go up, they dropped very 
significantly. Mr W had fallen victim to a market manipulation scam called a Pump-and-
Dump scheme. As a result, although he expected significant capital gains, he ended up 
selling his shareholding in this company at a significant loss.
He complained to Lloyds, but it declined to pay him a refund. It said that his losses werent 
covered by the voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code because hed sent 
the payments internationally and to an account that he controlled. Such payments are not 
covered by the CRM code.
Unhappy with the response from Lloyds, he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. The Investigator agreed that the payments 
werent covered by the CRM code. She also added that she didnt think Lloyds wouldve had 
any basis for treating the payments as unusual or out of character and so questioning them 
before allowing them to be processed.
Mr W disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that he has fallen victim to a genuine 
scam that is under investigation with the Hong Kong regulatory authorities. He pointed out 
that hed informed the UK regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, promptly about what 
had happened. He also said that Lloyds, by refusing to reimburse him because of the way 
the CRM code defines an APP scam, is relying on a technicality to avoid reimbursing a 
genuine victim. 
As Mr W disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr W has clearly fallen for a scam, it isnt of the kind covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model. The CRM code only covers scams that fall within their definition of 
an APP Scam which is  a transfer of funds executed across Faster Payments, CHAPS, 
or an internal book transfer, authorised by a Customer in accordance with regulation 67 or 
the PSRs, where  the Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed 
were legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent.
In this instance, Mr W didnt make a transfer from his Lloyds account to another person. He 
transferred the money to an account that he controlled with a separate business. I know that 
Mr W thinks that this is a mere technicality, but the CRM code is voluntary. Its signatories 
have specifically chosen to indemnify customers when they fall victim to scams in limited 
circumstances only. I cant unilaterally broaden the scope of the liability that Lloyds 
voluntarily assumed when it signed up to the code.
Having said that, Lloyds has other obligations outside of the ones it has under the code. 
Good industry practice required that it be on the lookout for account activity that was unusual 
or out of character and might have suggested that its customer was at enhanced risk of 
falling victim to a scam.
The transfers Mr W made here were significant and larger than typical transfers he made 
from his Lloyds account. However, I agree with the Investigators conclusions about whether 
any intervention on its part couldve really prevented the scam. If Mr W had been questioned 
about the payments, hed likely have explained that he was depositing money into his own 
account with a share trading platform. He told us that he had some experience of buying 
shares in the past and so this wouldnt automatically have suggested that hed been targeted 
by a scammer. 
I think Mr W wouldve been reluctant to disclose to an employee of Lloyds that he was 
making his trades on the basis of (as he saw it at the time) having privileged access to 
confidential information about a listed company likely to affect its share price given that this 
could be a criminal offence. Overall, I accept that Mr W has fallen victim to a scam here. 
However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds responsible for 
his losses.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman