DRN-2826236
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have handled his complaint about 
being the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr M says that he was subject to blackmail and threats between late 2018 and June 2019, 
and due to this he gave his account details and cards and PINs to those threatening him.   
Mr M says they took control of his accounts held with four different banks including an 
account with HSBC and made transactions without his permission as well as forcing him to 
make some transactions. Mr M says this continued until they came to his home in June 2019 
and took him in a car  threatening him and physically assaulting him. Mr M says at this 
point he was scared of what would happen next and went to the police.
Its been unclear exactly how Mr Ms details were initially compromised. He has told us that 
his father wanted to learn about online trading, so Mr M helped him find a third party via the 
internet to help with this. And that within a few days of contacting that third party, Mr M and 
his father started to be blackmailed.
Mr M has also told us that he wanted to learn how to trade in forex and found a course 
online. He says he gave his card details and was tricked into sharing his bank details for 
Bank A, after he was told a trade account had been set up for him. As part of setting up that 
trade account, Mr M also shared his driving licence. He says that shortly after this he noticed 
unauthorised transactions on his account with Bank A, so he contacted the third party who 
had set up the trade account and complained. Mr M says they told him that if he did anything 
they would come to his house and hurt his friend or his family.
Mr M says that himself, his father and a friend were subject to blackmail and threats and all 
lost money to the fraudsters. Mr M says they knew his home address and came to his house 
on some occasions and threatened him with violence. He says he had to open new accounts 
with Banks B and Bank C as he lost control of his accounts with HSBC and Bank A. But that 
the fraudsters found out about the new accounts and took control of those as well. 
Eventually all of Mr Ms accounts with all four banks were closed.
Mr M says the fraudsters called from a withheld number and came to his house and deleted 
their conversations with him from his phone  so he doesnt have any evidence of his 
contact with them. But Mr M has provided four screen shots of messages which appear to be 
from around May 2019. Mr M gave us the name and contact details for the police officer 
overseeing his case, as well as a letter from Victim Support.
Mr Ms HSBC account
In May 2019, HSBC blocked Mr Ms account after being contacted by another bank about a 
credit of £90 paid into Mr Ms account on 30 April 2019. HSBC got in touch with Mr M and 
asked if he was expecting the credit. He let them know he wasnt and that the funds could be 
returned to the other bank. Following this, HSBC undertook a review of Mr Ms banking 
relationship with them and decided to close his account.
HSBC wrote to Mr M in July 2019 advising that they were closing his facilities and that he 
would have to make alternative banking arrangements. They told Mr M that there was a 
balance owing on the account which would need to be repaid.
Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs decision to end his banking relationship and raised a 
complaint. He also didnt feel he should be held liable for the balance owing on the account, 
saying the transactions were completed by the fraudsters who had taken control of his 
account. He asked HSBC to reopen his account and clear the balance.
In September 2019, HSBC wrote to Mr M and advised that their position regarding his 
account was unchanged. But they refunded account charges which reduced the balance 
owing from just over £200 to around £110.
As Mr M was unhappy with HSBCs response, he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, he felt Mr M had 
consented to the transactions made on his HSBC account by giving the third parties the 
means to access his account. And that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account 
or requiring him to repay the outstanding account balance. The investigator advised that 
HSBC hadnt placed any markers against Mr M.
Most recently Mr M has told us that he is disputing all of the transactions made on his HSBC 
account after 14 March 2019. 
Some of the transactions that Mr M is disputing are included in the table below in bold. Ive 
also included other transactions that Mr M isnt disputing.
Date Type of transaction Amount
6.3.2019 Credit to the account  from account ending *062 £1167.57 cr
6.3.2019 Bill payment to Mr M £1167.57
8.3.2019 Credit to the account  from account ending *062 £100.00 cr
8.3.2019 Credit to the account  from account ending *062 £30.00 cr
14.3.2019 Chip and PIN transaction £15.00
15.3.2019 Credit to the account  from account ending *062 £50.00 cr
15.3.2019 ATM withdrawal £70.00
18.3.2019 Chip and PIN transaction  Insurance policy pmt £11.12
27.3.2019 Bill payment to Mr M £5.26
28.3.2019 Credit to the account  from account ending *062 £1303.41 cr
28.3.2019 Bill payment to Mr M £1303.41
30.4.2019 Credit to account (returned to the payer by HSBC) £90 cr
30.4.2019 ATM withdrawal £50
1.5.2019 Chip and PIN transaction £41
3.5.2019 Pay at pump  chip and PIN transaction £69.92
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion so the case was passed to me to review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive also very carefully considered everything that Mr M has told us and Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time.
Should HSBC refund Mr M for the disputed transactions made on his account?
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
In this case, its not in dispute that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN and online banking 
credentials were used to make the transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough for HSBC to hold him liable. I also need to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that Mr M consented to the transactions being made.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) set out the circumstances under which we 
would consider a consumer to have consented to transactions. In this case, Mr M gave his 
card and PIN as well as his online banking credentials to the fraudsters, which enabled them 
to make the transactions. While I accept what Mr M has told us about being blackmailed and 
threatened into giving them access to his account, being coerced or pressured into giving 
consent doesnt change the starting position under the PSRs that he has given consent.
A number of the transactions that Mr M is disputing, mirror previous undisputed transactions 
made on his account only days prior. For example, transfers into Mr Ms account to fund the 
disputed transactions, come from the same account details as previous transfers to his 
account. And, the bill payments made out of his account are sent to the same payee as 
previous undisputed bill payments. Based on what Mr M has told us it is difficult to tell what 
benefit Mr M may have had from the funds and which transactions he completed himself. 
Also, there is no clear evidence of how Mr M met his usual day to day living costs if he didnt 
have access to the funds in his account.
But regardless of whether or not Mr M had any benefit of the funds, or whether he completed 
the transactions himself. Im persuaded that in these circumstances Mr M has authorised the 
transactions by giving out his card and PIN and his online banking credentials. Therefore, I 
cant fairly ask HSBC to refund Mr M for these transactions.
In saying that, Ive also considered whether HSBC couldve or shouldve done anything to 
prevent these transactions from being made on Mr Ms account.
 
Could HSBC have prevented the payments?
The size and frequency of the payments didnt make them appear particularly unusual or out 
of character whereby I wouldve expected them to have flagged. So, Im satisfied that there 
was nothing to indicate to HSBC that Mr M may have been the victim of fraud prior to him 
notifying them in June 2019. So, I dont think there was an opportunity for HSBC to have 
stopped or prevented the payments.
Have HSBC acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account?
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC closed his account and are chasing him for the balance that 
was owing when it was closed. But HSBC is entitled to review the banking arrangements they have with Mr M and may 
choose to end that relationship, in the same way that Mr M couldve decided to stop banking 
with HSBC. HSBC arent required to give a reason for closing Mr Ms account, but they must 
act in line with their terms and conditions. 
From what Ive seen HSBC did act fairly in closing Mr Ms account. They wrote to Mr M 
advising him of their intention to close his account and asking him to make alternative 
arrangements. The letter advised that a formal demand for full repayment of any and all 
debt owed to the bank will be made shortly.
Mr M says his local branch told him he wouldnt have to do anything in relation to the 
outstanding balance on his account  thinking that he wouldnt have to repay it. And there is 
no record of exactly what was discussed in the branch or what Mr M was told. 
But even if Mr M was given incorrect information, that doesnt mean that HSBC cant fairly 
require him to repay the outstanding balance. HSBC have told Mr M theyve given feedback 
to the branch to ensure that if incorrect information was given that it wont happen again, 
which I think is a reasonable action to take. Also, HSBC has refunded Mr M for charges that 
were applied to his account, which had increased the balance owed.
 
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC have acted reasonably in removing those charges and thereby 
reducing the balance owing. And as Ive already set out above, as I dont feel HSBC should 
refund Mr M for the disputed transactions, Mr M is still liable for the closing balance on his 
account.
HSBC has told us that it didnt load any fraud markers against Mr M, although Im aware that 
his credit report is likely to reflect the unpaid balance he owes on his closed account. But in 
the circumstances, Im satisfied that HSBC hasnt unfairly added any markers against Mr M.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that HSBC can hold Mr M liable for the disputed 
transactions and have acted fairly and reasonably in both closing Mr Ms account and 
holding him liable for the balance owing. However, if Mr M is in financial difficulties, 
HSBC should work with him in order for him to repay the money he owes.
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman