DRN-1697499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F queried why the overpayments theyre making to their mortgage with 
Nationwide Building Society have different effects on the end date of their mortgage. For 
example, theyve said that when they overpay £500 it knocks a month off the term, so they 
dont understand when they overpay £1,000 why it doesnt knock two months off the term.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what questions should be asked or 
answered.
Mr and Mrs F have a daily interest mortgage. So when they make an overpayment (as they 
did regularly for many years) their interest is immediately recalculated; thats the daily 
interest element. But at their request, their contractual monthly payment wasnt recalculated 
as they wanted to use the overpayments to pay off their mortgage sooner.
The easiest way to think about this is using an example of a customer making a one-off 
overpayment (rather than regular overpayments). Ill use an example of a customer with a 
mortgage of £50,000 and a starting contractual monthly payment is £500 (all figures are 
rounded and approximate, and just for illustrative purposes):
Month one £220 goes to cover the interest, which leaves £280 to go to repay the debt. 
So the mortgage balance is now £49,720.
Month two their payment stays the same so they still pay £500. As the balance is lower, 
£219 goes to cover the interest, leaving £281 to reduce the debt. They also make an 
overpayment of £10,000. The balance is now £39,439. 
Month three, they pay £500 but now only £174 is needed to cover the interest due to the 
overpayment, which leaves a much higher £326 to go to reduce the debt. The balance is 
now £39,113.
This then carries on until there is a year-end balance of £35,843. Had the overpayment not 
been made then the year-end balance (still on a daily interest mortgage) would have been 
£46,531. This is a difference of £10,688, £10,000 of which is the overpayment so it shows 
the customer saved £688 in interest over the year as a result of the overpayment.
Mr and Mrs F have been overpaying regularly on a monthly basis, so this has had a 
cumulative effect. By maintaining regular overpayments theyll pay off their mortgage much 
sooner than the contractual end date. So irrespective of what the predicted end date is on 
each overpayment letter, the actual interest charged (which is the important thing) is based 
on the exact outstanding balance (having taken the overpayments into account).
Mr and Mrs F have said that a £500 overpayment equates to a one-month term reduction 
and theyve sent us some overpayment confirmation letters to support that. But its not that 
straightforward. Nationwide has sent us a much larger selection of the letters and these 
show that it has varied quite often.
For example:
Mr and Mrs F have sent us letters dated 8 May and 6 June 2012 which show a £500 
overpayment on 8 May changed the predicted end date from March 2032 to 
February 2032, so as they said a decrease of a month. But Mr and Mrs F didnt send 
us the letter they received dated 7 April 2012 (again showing a £500 overpayment) 
which indicated the predicted end date due to that overpayment was changed from 
May 2032 to March 2032, a reduction of two months.
Mr and Mrs F have sent us letters dated 7 January and 6 February 2013 which show 
a £500 overpayment on 7 January changed the predicted end date from July 2031 to 
June 2031, so as they said a decrease of a month. But Mr and Mrs F didnt send us 
the letter they received dated 6 March 2013 (again showing a £500 overpayment) 
which indicated the predicted end date due to that overpayment was changed from 
June 2031 to April 2031, again a reduction of two months.
A jump of two months can be seen for each of the following (just up to the end of 
2015);
oApril/May 2012,
oNovember/December 2012, 
oFebruary/March 2013, 
oMay/June 2013, 
oAugust/September 2013, 
oDecember 2013/January 2014,
oJune/July 2014,
oApril/May 2015,
oDecember 2015/January 2016.
And on 11 July 2015 a £500 overpayment was made but the term didnt reduce at all.
This clearly shows that its not as straightforward as Mr and Mrs F believe in that an 
overpayment of £500 knocks a month off every time, and multiples thereof can be calculated 
the same way. Instead a complex mortgage calculation is automatically carried out each 
time a payment is made which looks at what the outstanding balance is that day, and 
assumes Mr and Mrs F will make their normal contractual mortgage payment in full and on 
time every month going forward (no more and no less) and then works out what month that 
means their mortgage will be repaid in full.
I dont expect Nationwide to carry out a calculation every month to give Mr and Mrs F an 
exact figure that they need to pay that would be the equivalent to knocking a month off the 
term. That figure will vary every month depending on how much debt is outstanding, how 
many days there are in the month, and when in the month the overpayment will be made (amongst others). The complexity of the calculation that would have to be undertaken each 
and every month just isnt something that Id expect a mortgage lender to do as if it did that 
for every customer then its operating costs would go up significantly.
All I can suggest Mr and Mrs F do if they wish to repay their mortgage early, is to overpay as 
much as they comfortably can whenever they can (within the terms of their mortgage product 
to ensure they dont incur any early repayment charges) safe in the knowledge it will be 
reducing the interest theyll be charged. If they do that theyll repay their mortgage sooner, 
even though the term reductions arent as regimented as Mr and Mrs F thought they would 
be.
Its not for us to carry out a detailed or forensic audit of an account history. Its open to 
Mr and Mrs F to ask a suitably qualified independent accountant to do that for them. That 
would have to be at their expense, though if an error were found to their detriment they could 
include any reasonable costs of finding it in any complaint that followed. But Ive looked at 
the transaction history, and the comments on both sides, and having done so I cant see any 
obvious mistakes in Nationwides accounting. 
Having considered everything Im not persuaded Nationwide is administering Mr and Mrs Fs 
mortgage incorrectly. For that reason Im also not persuaded it has done anything wrong 
here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman