DRN-2320248
The complaint
 Mrs. H complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) didnt raise a dispute on her behalf about a car 
and warranty purchase. She would like a refund of both.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat the again here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
TSB missed the 120-day deadline to raise a Chargeback request for Mrs. H. But, as 
Mrs. H was unable to evidence a fault with the car or an issue with the warranty, I 
agree with our investigators view that a Chargeback request couldnt have been 
progressed. I think the £150 compensation TSB paid was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
TSB said it would consider a Section 75 claim if Mrs. H sent in relevant information to 
support her complaint. Without this I dont think TSB could reasonably progress the 
complaint.
Mrs. H says she sent in supporting evidence by email, post and in person in branch. I 
can see that on 20 January 2020 TSB sent Mrs. H a letter apologizing that 
documents she sent had been returned to her. That implies TSB had received some 
information but there is no record of that in the customer notes. I found TSBs letter 
vague as it didnt comment on if it had received or returned any correspondence. So, 
I am not entirely convinced it did receive any. It did, in that letter, pay an additional 
£25 compensation.
Mrs. H said she no longer has any relevant paperwork. I appreciate she may not 
have made copies of any paperwork posted or handed in, but I am not sure why she 
couldnt provide the email evidence she says she submitted. Or why she couldnt 
have asked the company that repaired her car to give her some information to 
support her claim. Without any supporting evidence I dont think TSB could 
investigate her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman