DRN-1277175
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited handled his claim poorly and acted unfairly in 
refusing to pursue the third party for liability and costs.
What happened
Mr D had a car accident that led to severe personal injury and damage to his car. Mr D made 
contact with esure and eventually made a claim on his insurance policy.
Mr D is unhappy with some of the emails he received from esure that were addressed 
incorrectly and contained incorrect and misleading information. Hes said he didnt receive a 
call back when requested and was offered a low valuation in the first instance. esure accepts 
this was the case and has offered Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr D also complained because he was told his premium could still increase at renewal 
following the accident even though he had paid for no claims discount (NCD) protection. 
esure explained that NCD protection made sure the NCD wasnt reduced after a claim but 
this doesnt guarantee the premium wont increase.
Lastly, Mr D is unhappy that esure wont pursue the third party he feels is at fault for the 
accident. On this point esure has said it has exercised its discretion not to pursue the third 
party (landowner or local council) as it doesnt believe this would have any prospect of 
success.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He felt that esure had acted reasonably in 
accepting liability and not pursing the third party. He also felt the terms of the policy made it 
clear premiums could still increase at renewal despite the NCD protection and that esures 
offer of £200 was fair to make up for the things it had got wrong.
Because Mr D didnt agree with our investigator, this case has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy terms, esure has the discretion to settle claims as it feels appropriate. So, 
like most insurers, esure has the right to decide how it will settle a claim and decide if it 
wishes to pursue a third party for something that could proceed to court if a settlement cant 
be agreed. Its not for me to decide who should be liable in motor insurance cases such as 
this. If necessary, this is something a court would determine. I can only consider if esures 
decision to accept liability and not pursue the third party was reasonable and based on a 
review of all available evidence.Court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so its not surprising that insurers are 
cautious and consider the likelihood of success when making their decisions. From what Ive 
reviewed, esure has considered all the available information, including Mr Ds testimony and 
dash cam footage, in deciding that it would have no prospect of success in pursuing the third 
party. I think esure has acted fairly in accepting liability and I dont consider it was under an 
obligation to contact the third party on the matter of liability. Having made its decision, esure 
did explain that Mr D was free to obtain an admission of liability from the third party so esure 
could take the necessary further action and I consider this to be fair.
Mr D says he has NCD protection so his premiums shouldnt increase at renewal following 
the claim. Ive looked at Mr Ds policy with esure and this makes it clear the premium may 
still increase at renewal if Mr D makes a claim due to other rating factors that may apply. 
I think this is clear and a common term in motor insurance policies, so its not unusual. It 
explains that NCD protection keeps the NCD at the same level after a claim. But this doesnt 
mean that the claim itself isnt recorded. The claim, among other factors, may still be taken 
into account when the premium is calculated.
On the matter of poor service and communication, there are a number of points raised. Mr D 
said the emails he received had incorrect and misleading information, he didnt receive a call 
back when requested and he was offered a very low valuation for his car to begin with. The 
evidence Ive seen supports what Mr D has said - esure also agrees and has upheld his 
complaint for this reason.
I appreciate that esures actions would have caused Mr D frustration and worry at an already 
difficult time, given the physical injuries he incurred during the accident. But its evident from 
the evidence that esure corrected any misunderstandings promptly, including offering an 
increased valuation following Mr Ds contact.
It's not my role to punish businesses  its to put customers back in the position they would 
have been in, where possible, had the business not made the mistakes it did. I consider 
esure has already taken the necessary steps to rectify its mistakes by confirming the costs it 
would cover, progressing the claim and offering an increased valuation. 
Had esure not made the mistakes to begin with, Mr D would not have experienced the 
frustration and worry he did. I think esures offer of £200 is fair to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused by its actions before it sorted things out.
Overall, based on everything Ive seen on this complaint, I think esure has acted fairly in 
rectifying its errors and offering Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20July2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman