DRN-4146418
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G) wouldnt repair his washing 
machine under his extended warranty policy.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr K bought a new washing machine. He also bought an extended 
warranty, which was underwritten by D&G. The warranty provided Mr K with accidental 
damage cover while the machine was still within the manufacturers warranty period, and 
included repairs for mechanical and electrical faults when the manufacturers warranty 
expired.
In early January 2023, Mr Ks washing machine developed a fault. He contacted D&G and 
an appointment was made for an engineer to attend. However, the manufacturer, which Ill 
call H, cancelled the appointment. D&G said H cancelled because the claim was outside the 
manufacturers warranty period and D&G shouldve arranged the repair.
Mr K complained to both H and D&G, but he said neither party would take responsibility for 
his claim. D&G sent its final response to Mr K in February 2023. It said the washing machine 
was still within the manufacturers warranty when he made his claim, so D&G wasn't 
responsible for the repair. Nevertheless, as the manufacturers warranty had expired when 
D&G wrote its final response, it said Mr K was eligible to claim for the repair under the 
extended warranty.
Mr K remained unhappy. He said the dates had been entered onto the system incorrectly 
which caused the belief that he was out of warranty. To resolve his complaint, Mr K wanted 
D&G to repair the machine, refund his annual premium, compensate him for lost work hours, 
and compensate him and his wife for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. He said D&G had rejected the claim fairly 
because the machine was still within the manufacturers warranty period. 
Mr K responded to say his machine had since been fixed and the fault was a restriction in 
the fill hose. As it wasnt a mechanical or electrical fault, he said D&G shouldve repaired his 
machine.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I wont repeat the details here: 
instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The washing machine was still within the manufacturers warranty period, so the 
cover D&G wouldve provided was for accidental damage only.
Mr K reported that the machine beeped during the wash cycle, and he could only use 
one programme. It was reasonable for D&G to think the fault was an electrical or 
mechanical fault, so it declined cover because the repair was the manufacturers 
responsibility. Im satisfied that was in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Mr K was unhappy that H wouldnt arrange a repair because it believed he was out of 
warranty meaning D&G was responsible. While I appreciate that wouldve been 
frustrating, I cant hold D&G responsible for Hs actions.
The repair completed was to remove a restriction in the fill hose. Mr K said H 
wouldnt have provided cover for that because it wasnt a mechanical or electrical 
fault. While that may be the case, until the matter was investigated, it wouldve been 
difficult for either H or D&G to know what the fault was. As Ive said, I think it was fair 
that D&G believed the fault to be electrical or mechanical given Mr Ks description of 
the fault and it was reasonable to direct Mr K back to the manufacturer.
In summary, Im satisfied that the evidence shows D&G correctly directed Mr K back to the 
manufacturer to deal with his washing machine fault. Once he was out of warranty it offered 
to repair the machine, so I dont think D&G treated him unfairly.
Mr K complained that neither H nor D&G would correct the policy date. While he explained 
the date was incorrect, it doesnt change my view of the complaint. The date was set at the 
point of sale, so any concerns about the accuracy would need to be directed to the business 
which sold Mr K the machine. D&G determined from the date of purchase that the machine 
was still within the manufacturers warranty when the fault developed, which is why it 
rejected Mr Ks claim. 
Ive noted Mr Ks request for the action he thinks is reasonable to put matters right. As the 
washing machine has now been fixed, and Ive decided D&G wasnt at fault for the way it 
handled the claim, I see no reason to require D&G to make any compensation payments or 
refund any premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman