DRN-2701084
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc handled her mortgage application. 
What happened
Mrs B applied online for a mortgage with Santander in June 2020. 
As part of the mortgage application, Santander instructed a valuation of the property to make 
sure it was considered a suitable security. The valuation carried out on behalf of Santander 
noted several issues and suggested that Santander not continue without a full structural 
survey.
Santander put this to Mrs B, and she instructed a survey independently, incurring an 
additional cost.
Once complete she provided a copy of this survey to Santander. Santander decided it would 
not lend until certain remedial work was complete  placing the full amount of the mortgage 
on retention.
As Mrs B was not the owner of the property, she said that she could not complete the work 
Santander asked for. As a result, she sought a mortgage elsewhere. Her application to 
another lender was successful.
Mrs B complained to Santander about how the application had been handled. She was 
unhappy shed had to pay for a full structural survey which she didnt think was necessary  
as her new lender hadnt required this. She was also unhappy Santander had not made it 
clear before she instructed this that it may place the full mortgage on retention, rather than 
simply a portion of the requested funds, equivalent to the cost of the remedial work. She also 
said, due to the delay, the vendor had increased the purchase price shed had to pay.
Santander said it didnt think it had made an error in relation to how the application had been 
handled. It did note it had failed to call Mrs B back at one stage, as it had agreed to, so 
offered her £25 for the upset caused by this.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mrs B asked our service to consider the complaint. One 
of our investigators looked into matters. He didnt think Santander had acted unreasonably 
by acting on the recommendations in the valuation carried out on its behalf. And ultimately, 
he said Santander was entitled to decide whether it was willing to lend.
Mrs B asked for her complaint to be looked at again as she felt Santander had left her in an 
impossible situation through the retention it had applied. As Mrs B didnt agree with the 
investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to a mortgage, a lender will check if the application is in line with their 
lending criteria  both in terms of affordability and whether the property is considered 
suitable security. These criteria are a matter of a lenders own commercial judgement and not 
something our service can generally interfere with. To check that a property is considered 
suitable, lenders will usually require a valuation for their purposes. This is often carried out 
by an independent surveyor, instructed by the lender  as happened here. The lender isnt 
usually responsible for how the surveyor carried out the valuation.
Santander appointed a suitably qualified surveying firm to carry out the valuation. The 
valuation returned to Santander noted several issues with the property that meant, in the 
valuers opinion, more information was required as there was the possibility the property 
didnt meet Santanders lending criteria. 
Acting on that information, Santander issued a mortgage offer which included conditions 
before it was willing to lend. Santander is entitled to decide the circumstances under which it 
is willing to lend. And I dont think it has acted unreasonably by deciding here that it was not 
willing to do so without conditions being met.
The mortgage offer noted that Santander had the right to retain loan proceeds. But before 
getting to that point a condition was that a report needed to be obtained relating to the 
structural stability of the property. The mortgage offer noted that funds could not be released 
until this was reviewed and approved. I think this was clear that the lending would not be 
granted without a report and approval of that report by Santander. So, I think it was clear at 
that stage that lending had not been agreed.
Mrs B says Santander shouldve been clearer that it might retain the entire loan before 
directing her to instruct a survey. And I can see that the offer does refer to retaining some of 
the loan. So, I agree it couldve been clearer that this could also be all of the loan. But 
ultimately the amount Santander decided to retain was a matter of its discretion, and it was 
made clear this was a possibility. And I dont think its unreasonable that Santander might 
not have been aware of how much would be retained, without the full structural survey 
having been completed.
And in any event, Im not sure this made a difference overall. Santander had set out that the 
mortgage could not go forward without a report and that report would need to be approved. 
This indicated that the report could be obtained but not approved and the lending might still 
not go further  in which case Mrs B would still have paid for the report, but not been granted 
the loan. So even if Santander had been clearer about how much might be retained, Mrs B 
would still have needed to obtain the full survey for the matter to be considered further  
which I think she wanted. Mrs B has indicated this was because shed already committed a 
lot of time to the application with Santander. And I understand that. But Mrs B was able to 
apply to a different lender at any stage. 
Mrs B says that by retaining the full loan proceeds she was left in an impossible position, 
because she couldnt buy the property to complete the work and didnt want to pay for work 
on a property she didnt own. And she is unhappy she was unable to discuss this further with 
Santander. I understand her point, particularly about not being able or wanting to carry out 
the work before owning the property. But again, Santander is entitled to decide if it is willing 
to lend. And having review the structural survey it decided it was not willing to do so 
unconditionally. And I think, although Mrs B was unhappy with the decision, Santander was 
clear about its decision. So, I dont think it has acted unreasonably.
Turning to how the application has been handled overall, I dont think Santander took an unreasonable amount of time considering it. Mrs B has said the vendors increased the 
purchase price because of how long this took. But I think that is a matter between her and 
the vendors. And, given there was no unconditional commitment to lend by Santander at any 
point, I dont think I can reasonably hold it accountable for this, even if it had delayed things 
 which for the avoidance of doubt I dont think it did.
Santander acknowledged that a call was not returned when it agreed and offered £25 for the 
upset this caused. Taking everything into account, I think this is fair, and while I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, I dont think I can reasonably require Santander to 
do anymore, as I dont think it has made any other errors.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £25, which I think is fair in the 
circumstances. So, if it hasnt already done so, Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs B £25.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman