DRN-3437093
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that errors by Clydesdale Bank Plc left it 
unable to transfer a business loan to the bank under an incentivised switching scheme. 
Mr G is Ts director and brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
T switched its business current account from The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) to 
Clydesdale in October 2019. It did this under the RBS Incentivised Switching Scheme 
(ISS), receiving a payment for doing so. T also held a commercial mortgage with RBS, 
which Mr G says he also wanted to transfer to Clydesdale under the ISS.
T took out a Bounce Back Loan with Clydesdale in May 2020. 
Mr G contacted Clydesdale in April 2021 to discuss moving Ts commercial mortgage to 
Clydesdale. The bank told Mr G that T wasnt eligible to switch any borrowing as it had taken 
out a Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr G complained to Clydesdale. He said hed made a number of attempts to contact the 
bank about switching Ts commercial mortgage but that no-one had gotten back to him. He 
also thought that the Bounce Back Loan had been mis-sold, as he wasnt advised that it 
would prevent T from transferring its existing borrowing.
Clydesdale said that Mr G hadnt mentioned switching Ts business loan until April 2021. By 
this time, the bank wasnt accepting switches of lending under the ISS where the applicant 
had taken out a loan under one of the government-backed schemes  such as a Bounce 
Back Loan. So it said that it had correctly declined Ts request in line with the lending policy 
it had in place at the time. But it accepted that there had then been a short delay, of around 
two weeks, in confirming to Mr G that the switch wouldnt be possible due to the Bounce 
Back Loan  and paid T £100 compensation for the poor service.
Mr G remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. One of our investigators reviewed the 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In summary, he said:
He thought Mr G was under the impression that T would be able to transfer its 
borrowing on the basis that it had successfully switched its current account. But such 
a request was always going to depend on the circumstances at the time it was made. 
And Clydesdale couldnt have foreseen that T would look to transfer its borrowing, or 
say whether this would be possible in the future.
While it mightve been possible at the time T switched its current account, Mr G 
submitted the request to move the commercial mortgage some considerable time 
later  by which time the bank had changed its criteria, leading to Ts ineligibility.
There was no evidence to show that T had asked Clydesdale how taking the Bounce 
Back Loan might impact its other borrowing. 
Clydesdale couldve communicated better with T once the request had been made, 
but he thought T had already been fairly compensated for this.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He said that T had been waiting for its relationship 
manager to make contact about transferring the loan after switching its current account, but 
Clydesdale had delayed providing a decision until after the ISS had closed. And he said T 
had no choice to take out its Bounce Back Loan with Clydesdale as it had already moved its 
current account to the bank. So he still thought T had been unfairly deprived of access to the 
incentivised lending switch, which he couldve pursued elsewhere if Clydesdale had 
confirmed its position earlier.
With no resolution, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly similar 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Looking firstly at the basis of Clydesdales decision to decline Ts request to switch its 
commercial mortgage under the ISS, the bank has explained that it stopped accepting 
lending switches under the ISS for applicants who had borrowed under the government-
backed coronavirus loan schemes. That was a decision it was entitled to make, and Ts 
application was therefore correctly declined in line with the banks policy.
That said, by the time of Clydesdales decision in April 2021, the deadline for applications 
under the ISS had already passed. While the ISS was open until 30 June 2021, switches 
had to be initiated by 28 February.
I understand that Mr Gs unhappiness is primarily with the length of time it took Clydesdale to 
advise him of its decision, given that once he received the decision in April 2021 it was too 
late for him to explore alternative options elsewhere. He says that Clydesdale was aware of 
his intention to request the transfer of Ts borrowing when he completed the current account 
switch back in 2019. But the documentary evidence available from the time doesnt support 
this. Weve contacted RBS for its records, but it no longer holds any information about what 
T included in its request and Mr G doesnt have a copy either. Clydesdale has shown us the 
information it received in October 2019, which referred only to Ts current account. 
Mr G has provided an email that shows T was invited to apply to switch its business loan. 
But this was sent by RBS, and doesnt show that an application was then made to 
Clydesdale  or that Clydesdale was made aware of Ts request or intentions. There is also 
no evidence to show that Mr G followed up with Clydesdale about the switch until he 
contacted the bank in April 2021  which I wouldve expected, had he been expecting the 
switch to happen when moving Ts current account some 18 months earlier.
Once Mr G got in touch with Clydesdale about switching the business loan in April 2021, the 
bank responded with its decision in just under a fortnight. So I dont think it was responsible 
for any significant delays and  for the reasons set out above  this didnt prejudice Ts 
ability to make an application under the ISS elsewhere, as the deadline for applications had 
already passed. Clydesdale has already paid T £100 for the additional calls that Mr G had to 
make in chasing matters up, which I think is fair compensation for the relatively minor 
inconvenience this wouldve caused.Mr G also says that T was mis-sold the Bounce Back Loan, on the basis that Clydesdale 
didnt advise that taking it out would prevent the switch of any other borrowing. But T took 
out its Bounce Back Loan prior to Clydesdale implementing this aspect of its policy. In any 
event, I dont think the bank was obliged to disclose such details of its criteria to applicants  
particularly given that they were subject to change. So I dont think Clydesdale did anything 
wrong in the information it provided to T about the Bounce Back Loan. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman