DRN-4108534
The complaint
Mr D and Miss J complain that Mortgage Shop London Ltd was the reason that their property 
purchase was delayed causing them to miss the Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) holiday 
which ended on 30 June 2021. As a result, they say they had to pay tax of £7,500 which 
could have been avoided.
What happened
Mr D and Miss J were buying a property and used the Mortgage Shop London (MSL) as a 
broker to apply for a mortgage. The initial contact was in September 2020.  They paid MSL a 
commitment fee but said it then took eight months to buy the property by which time a SDLT 
holiday finished, and they had to pay £7,500 SDLT. MSL got a mortgage in principle from a 
lender, I shall call Lender A, and then submitted an application to it but the application was 
declined as the guarantors were resident outside the United Kingdom. Mr D and Miss J say 
that following this refusal MSL was responsible for seven weeks of delay in sourcing an 
alternative lender and they missed the SDLT holiday by four weeks.
MSL says that it wasnt responsible for delays, did not commit itself to meeting a target of 
completion before the ending of the SDLT holiday and that this was a difficult application 
given, it says, the unique and non-standard income circumstances.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as she felt that MSL 
had done nothing wrong and MSL didnt cause significant delays. Mr D and Miss J disagreed 
and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Miss J engaged MSL to source a suitable mortgage for them. That is in fact what it 
did, and Mr D and Miss J bought the house they wanted with that mortgage. This complaint 
is about the time MSL took to source that mortgage after Lender A declined their mortgage 
application on 30th March 2021. In particular that the mortgage wasnt sourced in time for 
them to complete the purchase before 30 June 2021 which had an effect on the amount of 
SDLT they would have to pay. I believe that it is of some significance that the brokers role 
was to source a mortgage, but I cant see anything in the documentation to say that he 
agreed to source a mortgage in time for completion by 30 June 2021. This is significant 
because Mr D and Miss J want the broker to pay compensation as if he agreed to do so. 
But we would expect the broker to process the mortgage application with reasonable 
expedition and I can look at compensating Mr D and Miss J if the broker is responsible for 
unreasonable delay. 
Mr D and Miss J had brought a complaint against Lender A and an Ombudsman upheld that 
complaint in part but didnt hold Lender A responsible for their failure to obtain a mortgage 
and complete on their purchase before the 30 June 2021.
Mr D and Miss J say that they discussed MSL searching for an alternative lender on their 
behalf shortly after 30 March 2021 including via emails as early as 8th April and that MSL 
securing a backup lender was a priority but despite this MSL failed to act until 26th May 
2021. So, they say it was over eight weeks after Lender As decision and seven weeks after 
they started talking to MSL about alternative lenders when MSL finally made a new 
application to another lender. These delays occurred they say despite the fact that MSL 
already had all relevant information and documentation from their original application which it 
could have used to make a new application but failed to do so for a significant period of time.
MSLs response is that this was a non-standard application, it hoped to get Lender A to yield 
on its refusal as it was a difficult mortgage market at this time. In the meantime, it canvassed 
other lenders, continued to press Lender A, and got the application into a state that would 
facilitate its acceptability for the next application.
I would have thought that in the normal case, after the refusal that the broker would simply 
turn to another provider in April 2021 and make application there. But MSL says that this 
wasnt a normal application. The applicants didnt have the income to support the application 
and were relying on supplementary applicants or guarantors. But there were problems with 
the guarantors. They werent UK resident which was the reason for the refusal by Lender A 
There also was a problem with their ages and being able to find a lender who would agree to 
lend for an acceptable length of time for the borrowers but within its age parameters for the 
guarantors. There seems also to have been a problem with the income to debt ratio of one of 
the guarantors related it seems to having a personal loan for a company car.
I have access to a large amount of correspondence on this file. This is an active file, and the 
broker is clearly looking for solutions to obtain a mortgage for Mr D and Miss J. In retrospect 
it may be that he was more hopeful than he should have been that if he spoke to Lender A 
directly that this could have led to a change in their decision.  But theres also clearly a 
desire by Mr D and Miss J that the broker speak to Lender A. In their email of 8 April 2021, 
they say: We are concerned that a change of lender would result in worse terms on the 
mortgage and would also cause another delay resulting in the current property falling 
through. Can you tell us if there is anything else that can be done with regards to speaking to 
Lender A. 
I cant read that as anything other than Mr D and Miss J instructing the broker to continue his 
efforts to make contact with Lender A and continue to press their case so that the purchase 
doesnt fall through, and the broker followed those instructions. The broker was also getting 
mixed messages from Lender A which gave him some hope that they were relenting and 
open to a review of the application. In fact, that was not the case, but I can see why with Mr 
Ds and Miss Js concerns that the purchase might fall through that he did so. 
On the same date - 8 April - the broker said he was continuing to try to speak to Lender A 
but was contacting other lenders as a back-up. On the 16 April theres a conference call 
which evidences that the broker is looking for alternatives but are having difficulties getting 
lenders who will offer the 85% LTV required. 
The broker says that it was a complex process to obtain an acceptable alternative. I note 
that he mentions contacting 13 possible alternative providers and when a lender is found - I 
will call Lender B - that required time to ascertain whether the specifics of this application 
would be acceptable to Lender B. All of this took time and in the end an alternative provider was found, an offer issued, and the purchase completed but too late for Mr D and Miss J to 
benefit from the SDLT holiday.
Mr D and Miss Js claim is for reimbursement of the SDLT that they paid from the broker 
because of his delay in processing the application. This is an active file where the broker 
appears to be involved actively throughout. Its not a file that lay unattended where inertia or 
delay was obvious. It certainly took longer to process the mortgage than I would expect on 
an ordinary application. But this wasnt an ordinary application as it was already refused by a 
large mortgage lender and for the reasons set out above. Although I understand Mr D and 
Miss Js disappointment at not benefiting from the SDLT holiday, I cant fairly say that this 
was the fault of the broker rather than the complexity of the application and so, I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman