DRN-4043356
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly
declined a claim for damage to its propertys chimney and roof under its Health and Social
Care Policy.
Mr J, a director of B, brings the complaint on Bs behalf. For ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
actions and comments of the rep as being those of B. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them at length
here.
Briefly, B took out a Health and Social Care policy with Aviva which includes Asset
Protection Property Damage  All Risks and Theft.
In February 2021 B made a claim for damage to its chimney and roof tiles. B said that on or
around 30 January 2021 the bad weather caused part of the chimney to fall and as a result
around 5 tiles on the roof were also damaged.
Due to the nature of Bs property  a care home  which accommodates people, on 16
February B arranged for remedial works to the chimney and roof in order to prevent further
damage or cause risk to others.
B provided Aviva a repairs invoice for just under £1,700 and also a photograph of the
damaged chimney.
Aviva wasnt satisfied with the evidence provided and so they arranged for further photos of
the repaired chimney and roof to review which part of the chimney fell and where on the roof
damage was caused.
B said the damage to the chimney and roof tiles were as a result of bad weather. Aviva
checked data for dates surrounding 30 January 2021 and said there was no evidence of a
storm.
Aviva said it was clear from the images taken that the section of the chimney which fell didnt
damage any tiles near the chimney itself as there was no evidence of any recent repairs in
that area. They said it was possible to see recent repairs to an end ridge tile between the
gable and chimney, but it would be impossible for this damage to have occurred as a result
of the section that fell from the chimney.
Aviva said its likely there was a dampness issue within the chimney, causing it to reach a
point of failure resulting in a section crumbling away. They said this occurs from normal
exposure to weather over many years. Aviva thinks its likely the cement bedding the ridge
tile sat on had similarly degraded; the repair B had to get done was not indicative of damage
being caused by storm.
Aviva concluded its not likely the damage was caused by a one-off event such as storm but
rather wear and tear issues over a period of time which is specifically excluded under the
exceptions section of the policy and therefore not covered.
B maintained that the roof was in a good state of repair and provided evidence in the form of
photographs taken from 2018 and a maintenance checklist to demonstrate that the roof was
being checked regularly from ground level using binoculars. B argued the damage to the roof
was caused by a one-off event  the bricks from the chimney falling onto the roof and is
therefore covered by accidental damage.
Unhappy with Avivas response, B brought its complaint to our service. Our investigator
didnt think Bs complaint should be upheld. He said B hadnt demonstrated that the chimney
collapsed as a result of a one-off event and therefore the damage to the roof tiles werent
covered either. He believed the damage was caused due wear and tear. He concluded that
there was no cover under Bs policy for the damaged chimney or roof tiles.
My provisional decision
While my initial conclusion was the same as that reached by our investigator  in that I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld  my reasons were slightly different. So, I sent a 
provisional decision to both parties and invited them to submit anything else they wanted me 
to consider before I made a final decision. I said:
Both parties have provided detailed submissions to support their position. I want to 
assure them Ive read and carefully considered everything theyve said. However, my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties 
have raised. My role is to consider the evidence presented by B, and by Aviva, to 
reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of the complaint centres on Avivas decision to decline Bs claim. The 
relevant rules and industry guidance say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle the 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. I have to 
decide if I think Aviva has applied the terms of the policy in a fair and reasonable 
manner when declining Bs claim. Having reviewed everything available to me, 
overall, I think it did, Ill explain why.
The term most relevant to the claim B wants to make says:
Cover  We will indemnify You in respect of Damage to the property Insured
occurring during the Period of Insurance at The Premises.
Firstly, its important to note that Bs policy is an All Risks policy rather than a Perils 
based policy. This means it covers damage by any cause which isnt specifically 
excluded, rather than damage caused only by specified insured perils. So I dont 
think Aviva was correct to focus its investigation on whether the damage was caused 
by storm specifically. And nor does there need to be specific accidental cover for this 
claim to be considered. Damage by any cause could potentially be covered, subject 
to the policy exclusions.
In line with the policy term above, B has cover for damage and theres no dispute that 
theres damage to the chimney and roof tiles.
Aviva has relied on the following policy exclusion when declining Bs claim:Exceptions   We will not indemnify you in respect of
                                 (1) Damage to the Property Insured caused by or consisting of
                                 (b) Gradual deterioration or wear and tear
The onus is on Aviva to show it would be fair to rely on the above policy exclusion. I 
therefore need to consider whether Aviva has correctly applied the exception in the 
policy when declining Bs claim.
Aviva has said it thought a dampness issue resulted in a section of the chimney 
crumbling away and this happened due to the exposure of weather over many years. 
It also thought that it was likely the cement bedding the ridge tiles sat on similarly 
degraded. Aviva said it was more than likely the damage was caused by wear and 
tear over a period of time.
From the images Ive seen, it seems to me like the chimney and roof were already in 
poor condition and suffering from wear and tear. I note that B has provided a 
maintenance checklist to evidence that the roof was being checked, but I agree with 
our investigator that a check from ground level with binoculars is not likely to detect 
problems such as damp in the chimney. I also note that as well as the chimney stack, 
the chimney pots were also replaced by the roofer and therefore I think its more than 
likely that there was a problem with the whole chimney in order for it all to be 
replaced.
I have seen a copy of the repair invoice provided by B and I note it says Bricks fell 
on roof from Chimney stack causing it to break. It is unclear whether the roofer is 
saying that based on what he saw, in his opinion, this is what he thinks happened or 
whether this is what B described to have happened. It also doesnt explain how the 
roofer reached that opinion. In any event, I dont think it really matters because this 
alone isnt sufficient to demonstrate that the roof tiles were damaged as a result of a 
section of the chimney falling away.
I have reviewed the photographs taken by Aviva after the roof was repaired. Although 
I find it slightly odd that a section from the middle of the chimney stack would have 
fallen and landed only on the section to the far left of the roof at the bottom but not 
damaged any other tiles on the way down, its not implausible that this could have 
happened. However, there is no compelling evidence to show it was more than likely 
damaged in this way  particularly given the wear and tear damage seen to the rest 
of the roof. I am therefore not persuaded that this was the cause of the damage but 
more likely a coincidence that both the chimney and roof tiles were damaged. Having 
thought about all the evidence I have seen, in my opinion its more likely than not the 
damage was caused by wear and tear over a period of time as described by Aviva.
So on balance, I think the decision that Aviva has come to, that the damage to the 
chimney and roof tiles were caused by wear and tear over time, was fair.
Ive thought carefully about Avivas application of exclusion 1b above. The evidence 
does suggest the damage has happened gradually over a period of time and more 
than likely to be wear and tear. In these circumstances, I think it would be fair to 
conclude that exclusion 1b can reasonably apply here.
Taking everything into account, I think that Avivas decision to decline the claim, 
based on the exclusion they relied on, was fair and reasonable. I understand that this 
wont be the outcome that Mr J wouldve liked but, currently, I cant reasonably ask 
Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint.Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
B didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, it said the following:
The provisional decision is the ombudsmans opinion based on assumptions, with no 
fact based evidence.  
B asked whether the ombudsman has any verifiable evidence that the tiles came off 
because of wear and tear?
B confirmed that it was claiming under accidental damage cover which the 
investigator said he didnt have. Will the ombudsman clarify with Aviva that B does 
have accidental damage cover? 
The photos provided show that the roof was in a good condition after the event, why 
has the ombudsman said that it is not. 
B maintains that the damaged roof tiles should be covered under the accidental 
damage cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why Bs further comments havent led me to a different view.   
Ive taken into account everything B has said but it hasnt told me anything new or provided 
any other evidence in support of its position. So, for the reason set out in my provisional 
decision I still think Aviva reasonably relied on the gradual deterioration and wear and tear 
policy exclusion to decline Bs claim. 
B has said that my provisional decision was based on my opinion from assumptions with no 
fact based evidence. Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so, where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
B has asked if I have verifiable evidence that the tiles came off because of wear and tear. As 
Ive said in my provisional decision there is no compelling evidence to demonstrate that the 
chimney stack breaking away caused damage to the roof tiles. In my opinion, taking all the 
circumstances into consideration I thought it was more likely than not the damage to the roof 
tiles was caused by wear and tear. I have reached this view on a balance of probabilities. 
B asked whether I would clarify with Aviva that its policy does provide accidental damage 
cover. A copy of my provisional decision was sent to both parties. In my provisional decision 
I explained that Bs policy is an All Risks insurance policy which includes accidental 
damage cover, but I also explained why I dont think the damage is covered under this 
section of the policy. Im therefore satisfied that Aviva has been informed that the policy 
provides accidental damage cover.  
B queried why I thought the roof wasnt in good condition. Based on the images provided to 
me by B which included a photo of the damaged chimney and the images arranged by Aviva 
of the roof, in my opinion, the chimney and roof showed signs of wear and tear. 
With regards to the cover for the roof tiles, B is correct in saying that it has accidental 
damage cover under its policy. However, as Ive explained in my provisional decision, based on the evidence I have seen, I think its unlikely that a section of the chimney stack fell away 
causing damage to the roof tiles in that section of the roof only. There is no compelling 
evidence to show that this is the way it was damaged. On balance, I think the damage to the 
roof tiles was more likely than not caused by wear and tear, and as wear and tear is 
excluded under the accidental damage section, there is no cover for the damaged roof tiles. 
Since issuing my provisional decision, I havent been provided with any further evidence to 
persuade me otherwise, I therefore maintain my view on this.   
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to B as Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, but I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman