DRN-2968062
The complaint
Mr M says Sovereign Pension Services (UK) Limited (Sovereign) was responsible for a 
delay in acting on his instruction to disinvest from the funds in his Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). He says this resulted in substantial financial detriment to him.
Mr M is represented by his financial adviser.
What happened
There is agreement between the parties that Mr Ms instruction to end his discretionary fund 
management (DFM) arrangement with WH Ireland and to sell the assets within his Quilter 
International Isle of Man Limited (Quilter) SIPP, was received by Sovereign on 20 February 
2020. Its also agreed this wasnt acted upon until 28 February 2020.
Mr Ms representative said:
Sovereigns job is to instruct Quilter, immediately, on sales and purchases of funds and 
assets, quilter then immediately instruct WH Ireland. Both instructions within 24 hours, very 
maximum each. Effectively 24 hours usually covers both instructions. As WH Ireland always 
holds only liquid assets such as [exchange traded funds] (index funds), the cash is virtually 
instant. All the above means it would have been expected that Mr Ms funds would have 
been in cash by 24 February 2020
Mr Ms representative says that in the week between his clients instruction being received 
by Sovereign and action being taken, stock markets had fallen by around 30%. It says had 
his pension assets been sold on 21 February 2020 or by 24 February at the latest, then the 
majority of this fall couldve been avoided.
Mr Ms representative says given the delay in effecting Mr Ms instruction and the loss of 
value of his funds, he had no choice but to rescind the instruction to sell his pension assets. 
So he stayed invested and hoped for a future recovery.
Sovereign responded to Mr Ms complaint on 15 June 2020. It accepted that it hadnt met the 
standard of service it would have expected and acknowledged what it said had been a short 
delay. It said:
We have reviewed the position after taking into consideration the administration processing 
time for us to action the instruction to Quilter International Isle of Man Limited (Quilter) to 
remove WH Ireland as DFM on the policy.
The earliest the instruction we received in our office on 20th February could have been 
actioned was on 25th February 2020. The earliest WH Ireland could have actioned the trade 
instruction to sell the assets received from Quilter is 27th February 2020. The portfolio value 
on 27th February was £2,170,924.26.
As it was, we actioned the instruction to remove WH Ireland on 28th February 2020.We 
received the instruction to cancel the transaction and WH Ireland would have actioned the 
original instruction on 3rd March 2020. The portfolio value on 3rd March was £2,168,416.73.
We acknowledge that our service level did not meet the standard that we expect and that 
there was a short delay in the time it took us to process your request. Therefore, we uphold 
your complaint and agree to settle the above difference in value of £2,507.53 in order to 
return the value of the portfolio to the position as it was on 27th February. In addition, as a 
gesture of goodwill on our part, we will pay a sum of £500 compensation to your SIPP and 
we will not levy next-years annual management fee of £500.
Mr M didnt accept Sovereigns offer. His representative asserts a potential loss to his client 
of over £500,000. And requests redress of £220,000. His complaint was referred to our 
Service.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms case. He thought Sovereign had accepted its failing, 
apologised and its approach had been fair. Mr Ms representative disagreed. It said:
The initial loss of approximately £200k, on my clients investment, due to the belated 
instructions being carried out by Sovereign was hugely compounded by the fact that had the 
instruction been carried out my client, being then in cash, would have been able to timely 
reinvest into a much reduced (in value), stock market (circa -30%).
The fact that, eventually, the stock markets (thus my clients portfolio with Sovereign) 
recovered, thereby camouflaging the actual loss by my client, is completely irrelevant.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ms 
complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Sovereign for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Sovereign. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
My next step was to review the terms and conditions of Mr Ms SIPP, which he agreed to in 
July 2017. Specifically with regard to how it would handle client instructions. At section 11.2 
it says (bolding is my emphasis):
The Member shall direct the manner in which assets within their SIPP are to be invested. 
Neither the Trustee nor Sovereign accepts any liability for any decisions relating to the 
purchase, retention, or sale of investments within the Fund. The Trustee will act on 
Sovereign's instructions and its only function is to hold the SIPP Investments and it will have 
no other involvement in the investment process
Sovereign: will normally give effect to an investment instruction as soon as 
reasonably practicable after the same is made; and will normally thereafter continue to 
give effect to the same until that investment instruction is countermanded by the Member or 
the Professional Adviser giving due notice to Sovereign 
but Sovereign shall be under no obligation to give effect to investment instructions 
and does not guarantee that any investment instruction will be acted upon in a timely 
manner and the Member accepts that there may be a reasonable delay between the 
instruction being given and that instruction being fulfilled. Neither the Trustee nor 
Sovereign will be liable for any actual or perceived loss during that period.
Im mindful that this is the contract Mr M signed up to. On the other hand, its arguable it 
gives Sovereign some leeway to avoid liability if it gets things wrong. That might raise a 
question about whether certain of the terms would be deemed fair. However, I note 
Sovereign hasnt relied heavily on its terms and conditions in dealing with Mr Ms case.
I give more weight in my consideration to the sector best practice issued by the Transfers 
and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG); whose membership included several trade 
bodies. In 2018 it published an Industry-wide framework for improving transfers and re-
registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
In this publication TRIG established what it considered to be reasonable timeframes for firms 
to adhere to for transactions like those being performed for Mr M. While it noted the 
importance of using electronic means, it also acknowledged that certain elements of certain 
transactions would continue to require manual processes. And that often there were more 
than two firms involved in the process. These matters inevitably built more friction into the 
process.
At paragraphs 30-32 the best practice guide said:
The TRIG believes that organisations should adopt a maximum standard of two full 
business days for completing each of their own steps in all transfer and re-registration 
processes within the scope of this Framework, with the exception of pension cash 
transfers
This approach would enable each counterparty in a process to be equally accountable for 
ensuring that an efficient transfer and reregistration process is in place. Similarly, organisations will not be accountable for the underperformance of counterparties that are 
outside of their control.
This window would comprise two full business days, with a business day defined as a day 
when the London Stock Exchange is open. Each firm would process its step by 2359 of the 
second business day following the day of receipt. This means that, in practice, some firms 
might have more than 48 hours to process their step, e.g. if they received an instruction at 
0900 on day one, and did not complete their step until 2300 on day 3.
Both parties agree Mr Ms instruction was received on Thursday 20 February 2020. Three 
firms were involved in the transaction to some extent - Sovereign, Quilter and WH Ireland. I 
also need to bear in mind TRIGs guidance, for a maximum standard of two full business 
days for completion by a firm for each of its own process steps.
I think the argument made by Sovereign, that if things had gone according to its normal 
operations, then Mr Ms pension assets wouldve been sold on 27 February 2020, is 
reasonable. Thats because it wouldve been broadly in line industry best practice. It follows 
that I find the proposal made by Sovereign to try to resolve its dispute with Mr M was fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr Ms representative says that because of the delay in Sovereign executing his instruction, 
he decided to stay invested in his then funds in order to try to recoup some of the eroded 
value. It seems to suggest that by doing so, his funds were further eroded between March 
2020 and June 2020.
The decision Mr M took to stay invested in his then current pensions funds was a matter for 
him. There was no guarantee about whether values would recover or erode further, nor over 
what timeframe. He couldve moved into cash and then executed new investments at the 
moment of his choosing. But he chose to rescind his initial disinvestment instruction for 
reasons I can understand. It was a volatile market.
Neither party has provided any detail about the sequence of events building up to 20 
February 2020, when both parties agree Sovereign received the disputed instruction. I have 
seen an instruction signed by Mr M dated 13 January 2020, which asks the recipient - which 
is unclear from the note - to cease his arrangement with WH Ireland immediately, ready for 
implementation of an adviser agreement together with his chosen funds going forward.
This earlier instruction is strongly suggestive Mr Ms plan was to exit his DFM agreement 
and disinvest from his then SIPP funds and to use the proceeds to move straight into new 
funds. 
Id observe that a SIPP is a tax efficient vehicle for building up and holding pension 
provision. In this context, investment decisions are generally medium to long-term. Thats 
quite different from speculating on short run market movements and anticipating the top or 
bottom, seeking to make gains in such a manner.
So, on balance and based on the evidence available to me, I dont think it would be 
reasonable for me to uphold this complaint against Sovereign Pension Services UK. And I 
dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman