DRN-2272626
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFUM) unfairly refused to give her a motor insurance quote.
What happened
Mrs S rang NFUM for a quote. NFUM began the quote process but stopped before 
completing it. It told her that the way she and her husband swapped who was the 
policyholder on a yearly basis in order to retain no claims discount entitlement wasn't 
acceptable to it. 
Mrs S complained about that and also about how NFUM was retaining her data. She brought 
her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He didn't think NFUM needed to 
take any further action. He thought it was reasonable for it not to offer Mrs S a quote. He 
added that she would be better to direct her complaint about NFUMs data handling to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). He also said that we don't have the power to 
consider concerns about complaints handling. 
Mrs S didn't agree with our investigator's assessment of her complaint, so it's been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint Mrs S has made a number of detailed points. I've considered 
everything she's said and all the information on file. But I don't intend to address every 
individual point shes raised in this decision. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the 
key outstanding issues at the heart of Mrs S complaint following our investigator's 
assessment of it. 
When running through the quote process Mrs S explained that her and her husband 
essentially take turns in insuring their car for a year at a time. Thats because most insurers 
will allow a policyholder to keep their accrued no claims discount (NCD) for up to two years 
without having a car currently insured. So, by taking it in turns to insure their car, neither 
Mrs S nor her husband go for more than a year without having a car insured in their name. 
So their NCD shouldn't be more than a year old since last used. NFUM told Mrs S that this 
practice  of swapping policyholder year on year  wasn't acceptable to it and so it wasn't 
going to offer her a policy. 
Mrs S found that baffling. She said most other insurers don't have an issue with the 
swapping of the policyholder on an annual basis. She said NFUM was unfairly discriminating 
against her. But I don't think it treated her unfairly. 
Insurance is largely a matter of assessing risk. And when offering policies insurers will think 
about what risks theyre prepared to cover and the factors that affect that risk. And they will 
assess the types of customer they wish to offer their policies to and some customers will fall 
outside of that assessment. That could be for numerous different reasons, including where 
they live, their profession or, in this case, the manner in which they maintain their NCD 
entitlement. So it's not uncommon for insurers to decline to offer cover to people in certain 
circumstances. And as those assessments are commercially sensitive we dont expect 
insurers to share their methods for assessing risk with consumers.
Were not the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is; so it's not my role 
to tell an insurer what risks it must cover, or how it should go about assessing those risks. 
Thats something insurers are entitled to decide for themselves. And that means if an insurer 
thinks a consumers actions makes them an unacceptable risk, then the insurer can decline 
to offer cover. And as long as they treat people fairly that's something insurers are entitled to 
do. So its not for me to tell an insurer how it should assess the risks of certain consumers. 
Each individual insurer can make its own assessment of that. And as long as it applies that 
risk assessment consistently, and isn't fundamentally unfair - for example by breaching 
equalities legislation - we wouldnt interfere with it. That's the case even where consumers 
believe that the risk assessment is flawed.
In this case NFUMs shown us the underwriting criteria on which it decided not to offer Mrs S 
a policy. And as that guidance is something it will apply consistently, where its aware of 
relevant circumstances, then I don't think its unfair. I'm aware NFUM had insured Mrs S 
previously. But that doesn't mean its treated her unfairly by not offering a policy more 
recently. Ive explained why I think it was fair in doing that. 
Further, Mrs S said that the practice of swapping the main driver on the policy doesn't 
increase the risk she poses as a policyholder. I can understand why she may think that. And 
NFUMs approach certainly isn't shared by all insurers. But NFUM has decided that 
consumers who swap policies are an unacceptable risk to it. Thats a decision its entitled to 
come to, regardless that Mrs S or other insurers might not agree with that risk assessment. 
And, I don't think it breached any regulatory rule or principle when making that decision. It 
follows that I dont think the fact that NFUM didn't wish to accept the risk Mrs S posed as a 
policyholder means it was unfairly discriminating against her. 
After Mrs S complained, NFUM told her in its complaints response that the reason it had 
declined cover was because of a question concerning employment status. That was simply 
wrong. A question did arise over Mrs S husbands employment status, but that wasn't the 
reason NFUM declined to quote. And it confirmed this was a mistake when it responded to 
our requests for information. It clearly wasn't helpful that NFUMs response to the complaint 
wasn't accurate. But, regardless of NFUMs error, it's also clear that Mrs S was aware of the 
actual reason NFUM had declined to offer her a policy. Further, as our investigator 
explained, we are only empowered to look into complaints about regulated activities and 
complaints handling isn't itself a regulated activity. So I don't intend to instruct NFUM to take 
any further action because of its complaints handling errors. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I'm not going to instruct NFUM to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman