DRN-1512172
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) made a fraud report in relation to an 
insurance claim which has prevented him from accessing credit. He wants it removed. 
What happened
On 2 February 2016 Mr S made a claim under his landlord insurance policy with UKI. He 
said a water leak from the bathroom in August 2015 had damaged kitchen cabinets. UKI 
started its claim process but decided to reject the claim and cancel the policy as it suspected 
the claim was fraudulent. 
UKI had several concerns and set them out in its letter of 15 June 2016 rejecting the claim 
and cancelling the policy. In summary these were:
When the damage was reported, UKI wanted a contractor to inspect and assist with 
drying out the property. It made several attempts to arrange this but Mr S refused 
access and then said no drying was needed.
On 15 February another contractor was able to attend and found the kitchen had 
already been fully replaced and no damage was evident. Mr S advised repairs had 
cost around £6,000.
With no damage to inspect UKI decided to make further enquires. It checked an 
insurance database. This showed a claim for the damage to the kitchen had been 
made to another insurer (Ill call it A) on 27 January 2016 by a third party (Ill call 
them X) who held contents insurance with A. The cause of the damage was given as 
rising damp. A said its policy didnt cover this and declined the claim. 
On the same day Mr S also contacted UKI to register a claim for damage caused by 
rising damp to three walls in the property including the kitchen. UKI declined this 
claim as rising damp wasnt covered by the policy. 
UKI said  that X was closely related to Mr S. UKI then spoke to Mr S on several 
occasions. It raised various queries and compared his replies to previous answers 
provided (the calls were recorded). He confirmed the damage was caused by a leak 
and the kitchen hadnt been damaged previously. In a subsequent conversation UKI 
advised it knew the kitchen had been damaged by rising damp and attempts to claim 
for this had been made with A as well as UKI.
When asked about X, Mr S said they were his tenant and he didnt know X had tried 
to claim for the damage. In an earlier call Mr S had told UKI that the close relative 
now known to be X had told him about the damage. Various other comments were 
made about what had happened and when, which contradicted previous comments. 
UKI said Mr S knew the damage was caused by rising damp and wasnt covered. 
And that hed then attempted another claim by giving a different, misleading 
explanation of how and when the damage had been caused. UKI said this was the 
reason Mr S had prevented access and replaced the kitchen before it could be 
inspected.
UKI rejected the claim as its position had been prejudiced as it hadnt been able to 
assess the damage. UKI also said that the claim was fraudulent: 
"Based on this information we conclude that you have knowingly given us information 
that you were aware was untrue or misleading. We further believe that this was 
undertaken dishonestly and with the intention of making a financial gain for yourself or 
another party.
UKI rejected the claim and cancelled the policy and also other policies held by Mr S with 
it. UKIs letter also stated the following:
We may notify the relevant authorities.
We may share details of this matter with fraud prevention agencies and this may 
adversely affect your ability to obtain financial products in the future.
Mr S disputed some of the points. He provided UKI with an invoice for a repair to a pipe 
which he said substantiated his explanation about the water leak. UKI made some enquiries 
before rejecting the invoice saying it didnt change its decision about reporting the matter as 
fraud. Mr S indicated he would take advice, including from our service but didnt appear to do 
so at the time. As he didnt make a complaint, UKI didnt send a final response letter. 
Mr S complained to UKI in August 2019 after being declined for car finance due to a fraud 
report (or marker) by UKI on CIFAS, which is a fraud prevention agency.. He wanted it 
removed. UKI reviewed its handling of the claim and the fraud report. It rejected Mr Ss 
complaint saying it was satisfied the outcome (in 2016) was correct and sent a final 
response letter confirming this. Mr S referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into it. She didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that UKI had 
acted reasonably and followed  the terms and conditions of the policy which said it could be 
cancelled and reports made to fraud prevention agencies. As UKI had acted reasonably she 
said it couldnt be asked to remove the CIFAS marker.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said some of UKIs points were lies and he 
would provide information and evidence of this. Our investigator contacted Mr S on several 
occasions asking for this, but Mr S hasnt provided anything further. 
As Mr S doesnt agree with our investigators view it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S. He gave UKI no 
opportunity to inspect the damage and provided conflicting explanations of what had 
happened. In rejecting his claim, cancelling the policy and reporting to CIFAS, UKI acted 
within the terms of the policy as set out in the policy booklet and in compliance with the law 
under the Insurance Act 2015.
CIFAS is a not for profit association representing organisations across the public, private and 
voluntary sectors, it operates fraud prevention databases. A CIFAS marker can have serious 
implications for the individual and any allegation needs to be justified. Having reviewed the 
evidence on UKIs file and in the absence of anything further from Mr S I am satisfied that UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in placing a fraud marker against Mr Ss claim and 
reporting this to CIFAS.
As UKI acted fairly and reasonably I wont be asking them to do anything here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman