DRN-1830247
The complaint
Mr I complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) failed to respond to a 
settlement offer he made in April 2019. 
What happened
Link Financial acquired two debts in Mr Is name. Mr I was making repayments via a third 
party debt advisory service. On 4 April 2019 Mr I sent Link Financial a letter asking whether 
it would accept a partial settlement for each of the accounts it owns. Link Financial received 
the letter but didnt respond. 
On 29 August 2019 Mr Is settlement offers were considered by the relevant team after the 
debt advisory service chased a response on his behalf. The settlement offers were rejected, 
but Link Financial didnt tell Mr I or his third party advisors. 
Link Financial sent Mr I its final response to his complaint on 29 October 2019 and agreed 
there had been delays. Link Financial confirmed that the settlement offers hadnt been 
accepted and apologised for the delay. Mr I referred his complaint to our service and it was 
passed to an investigator. They thought Link Financial had waited too long to respond and 
recommended it pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Link Financial 
accepted, but Mr I asked to appeal as he didnt feel the settlement fairly reflected what had 
happened. As Mr I asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Mr I that Link Financial took too long to respond to his settlement offer. Link 
Financials contact notes show the offer was received on 8 April 2019 and its clear it was 
forgotten. Whilst I wouldnt expect a business to rely on its customers to highlight delays and 
problems, Mr I has told us this was an important issue. An issue he wanted to get resolved 
so he could decide how best to proceed in terms of other debts he had. So whilst I agree 
Link Financial should have replied much sooner, I think the investigator made a reasonable 
point when they said Mr I could have chased a response. 
Mr Is offer was considered by Link Financial on 29 August 2019 after the debt advisory 
service got in touch, but rejected. As our investigator has said, I cant tell a business to 
accept a settlement offered. But I agree that Link Financial should have contacted Mr I to 
confirm its decision, once the settlement offer had been rejected. Its clear that Link 
Financials response to Mr Is settlement offers was substantially delayed. 
Our investigator recommended Link Financial pay Mr I £100 in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions. I understand Mr I feels the amount isnt reasonable and 
doesnt reflect what happened. Im sorry to disappoint Mr I, but I think £100 is a fair 
settlement. Whilst I agree there was an extensive delay, I also think Mr I had the option to 
chase matters up with Link Financial when he didnt receive a response. Taking everything 
Ive seen together, Im satisfied that £100 fairly reflects the impact of Link Financials error. 
So Im going to uphold Mr Is complaint and direct Link Financial to pay him £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to 
pay Mr I £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman