DRN-1919545
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about the valuation Acromas Insurance Company Limited gave for 
their car after it was declared a total loss.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E had a car insurance policy underwritten by Acromas. Mrs E had a car accident 
in 2019 that wasnt her fault. When she claimed under their insurance policy, the car was 
assessed to be a total loss. This means Acromas would pay Mr and Mrs E the pre-accident 
value of their car rather than repair it.
Acromas looked at two industry trade guides to determine the value of Mr and Mrs Es car 
and gave them the higher of the two values - £4,275. Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with this. 
They explained that they would need between £800 and £1,000 more to be able to buy the 
same car so they felt the valuation was too low. Mr and Mrs E submitted adverts as evidence 
to show how much it would cost to purchase the same car.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that we expect insurers to check 
trade guides to determine the value of a car before an accident. The investigator also 
checked the same trade guides and one other and could see that £4,275 was a reasonable 
valuation based on these guides. As such, Acromas hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs E disagreed. They explained that trade guides dont sell the cars, and whilst it 
may be industry standard to value cars this way it was unfair. Especially as they have been 
left out of pocket when purchasing a new car. They asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how disappointing it must be for Mr and Mrs E to have their car declared a 
total loss after an accident that wasnt their fault. It brings with it a lot of inconvenience. But 
having considered what Acromas has done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
When an insurer assesses the valuation of a vehicle it isnt an exact science. Mr and Mrs Es 
policy says Acromas will pay the market value of the care immediately before the accident. 
To determine this, Id expect Acromas to use industry trade guides as this is the industry 
standard. And the guides determine the market value by looking at many factors including 
actual selling prices of cars. I can see that Acromas has done so here. And it paid the higher 
of the values found in these trade guides.
Ive also looked at the same trade guides, and one other and can confirm that the £4,275 
Acromas paid represents a fair market value, when looking across the guides, for Mr and 
Mrs Es car. Ive seen the adverts that Mr and Mrs E have provided from a car sales website. 
Its important to understand that many car dealerships will add a margin for negotiation when 
advertising cars. And many of the cars for sale had a lower mileage than Mr and Mrs Es car. 
So, this is why trade guides can give a better indication of what the market value is. I 
understand why Mr and Mrs E feel this is unfair, but its important to note that their insurance 
policy does say it will pay the market value, and not that it will pay the cost of a new car.
Acromas has used trade guides to determine the market value of the car and I can see it 
paid the higher of the two values. The payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive 
looked at, so I dont think its acted unreasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman