DRN-2833240
The complaint
Mr S complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Britannia (Co-Op) wont honour a 
counter cheque he has found. 
What happened
In August 2007 a third party gave Mr S a Co-Op counter cheque (cheque 1) for £2,000. The 
cheque was cancelled and a replacement issued (cheque 2) at the beginning of December 
2007. At the end of December 2007 another replacement cheque was issued by Co-Op 
(cheque 3). 
In January 2008 Co-Op says the cheque was cashed. 
In 2018 Mr S found cheque 1 and asked Co-op to credit the funds to his account. Co-Op 
declined and said the cheque had expired. Mr S complained but Co-Op didnt agree to 
honour the cheque. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Co-Op had dealt with Mr S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr S asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr S for the level of detail hes given in his submissions and responses to 
the investigator. Id like to assure Mr S that Ive read and considered all the points raised and 
information provided. Im going to focus on what I feel are the key issues in this case. If I 
dont specifically refer to something Mr S has said, it doesnt mean I havent considered it. I 
also need to explain that Im only looking at Co-Ops actions in relation to Mr S request that 
it honour cheque 1.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Co-Op has provided clear evidence to show 
cheque 1 was cancelled. So whilst I understand Mr S found it in 2018 and presented it for 
payment, the systems information Ive seen shows cheque 1 was cancelled in December 
2007. 
Cheque 1 was replaced with cheque 2 at the beginning of December 2007. And cheque 2 
was replaced by cheque 3 a couple of weeks after that. Mr S has asked about the sequence 
of events but due to the amount of time thats passed theres no longer any record of why 
Co-Op was asked to reissue the cheque twice. I can see Mr S more recently found cheque 1 
so one reason could be that he misplaced it and asked the third party for another to be 
issued. Whilst I can see Mr S is in possession of cheque 1 Im satisfied the systems 
evidence shows it was cancelled and replaced. 
As cheque 1 was cancelled and replaced, Im not persuaded Co-Op acted unfairly or made 
an error when it declined to honour it in 2018. 
The systems evidence Ive seen also cheque 3 (issued towards the end of December 2007) 
was cashed in the middle of January 2008. Co-Op has recently told us its willing to disclose 
the sort code and bank account number cheque 3 was credited to. If they havent done so 
already, Mr S can request this from the investigator. The information may assist Mr S in 
finding out what happened to the funds. That being said, the systems information Ive seen 
shows cheque 3 was cashed into an account with another bank. 
Ive looked at the sort code for the account the cheque was paid into but couldnt find which 
bank it related to. I understand Co-Op suggested it as a bank Mr S has told us he held 
accounts with at the time, but I couldnt find anything to verify whether thats the case. Again, 
due to the passage of time, the information now available is very limited. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but Im satisfied Co-Op has provided a clear trail that begins with 
cheque 1 being issued and ends with cheque 3 being cashed into an account with another 
business. I havent found anything that indicates Co-Op made an error or that it should 
honour cheque 1. As Im satisfied Co-Op has dealt with Mr S complaint fairly, Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
 My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman