DRN-2719364
The complaint
Mrs M complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to place a dispute marker on her joint 
bank account when she made it aware of a marital dispute. 
Mrs M is represented by Ms N on her complaint, but for ease of reference Ill refer to any 
submissions from Ms N as if they were Mrs Ms own.
What happened
Mrs M holds a joint bank account with another party, the joint account holder, with BoS. The 
liability of this account is joint and several, meaning BoS can look to either party jointly or 
solely to repay any debt.
In May 2017 Mrs M attended a branch of BoS where amongst other things, she made it 
aware of a marital dispute between her and the joint account holder. The bank account was 
overdrawn at this point with a balance of £3,622.79 against a limit of £3,500.
In December 2017 a payment of £3,718.22 credited the account. This placed the account 
into a credit position; before a payment was made on the same day which took the account 
back into its overdraft. Over the course of December 2017 and January 2018, payments 
were debited from the account and those  together with overdraft interest and charges  
brought the account back into an overdrawn position close to its limit of £3,500 by 
February 2018. 
Mrs M became aware of the activity on the account in September 2019 and complained to 
BoS. She said it knew from May 2017 that there was a marital dispute between the account 
holders, and it should have placed a dispute marker on the account at that time. Mrs M said 
had it done so debits wouldnt have been permitted and there wouldnt now be a debt to pay. 
In BoSs response it acknowledged it should have put a dispute marker on the account in 
May 2017. In resolution of the complaint it credited the account to bring the balance in line 
with how it stood in May 2017. It also made a payment of £100 to Mrs M to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience of the situation. 
Mrs M didnt accept BoSs resolution and brought her complaint to our service. In summary, 
she said BoS should have applied the dispute marker to the account when she first made it 
aware of the marital dispute  and therefore the joint account holder shouldnt have been 
able to make transactions on the account. Mrs M said this would have kept the account in a 
credit position. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said while BoS 
had acknowledged its error, it had put Mrs M back in the financial position she was in when it 
was made aware of the marital dispute and should have placed a dispute marker on the 
account. They felt the action BoS had taken to ensure Mrs M wasnt financially 
disadvantaged, and the payment it had made for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
was fair and reasonable. So, they said BoS didnt need to do anything more to resolve the 
complaint.
Mrs M asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint before me is whether BoS should have put a dispute marker on the bank 
account in May 2017, when it was first put on notice of the marital dispute. BoS has 
acknowledged that it should have put the dispute marker in place at this time. There is no 
argument in terms of whether something went wrong, as this has already been accepted by 
BoS. So, I need to consider if BoSs error has resulted in a loss for Mrs M; and whether the 
£100 offered for the distress and inconvenience Mrs M was caused is fair and reasonable. 
Mrs M says had BoS applied the dispute marker to the account when she first made it aware 
of the dispute, it wouldnt now be asking her for payment of the debt. She says this because 
the joint account holder wouldnt have been able to take money out of the account after the 
payment had credited in December 2017. And because of this, Mrs M doesnt think its fair 
BoS is continuing to ask her for payment of the debt.
Mrs M has said she had no knowledge of the origin or reason for the credit of £3,718.22 in 
December 2017, and that she hadnt ever held other financial products. Based on Mrs Ms 
testimony, I think its more likely, on balance, this credit was intended for the joint account 
holder. So, Mrs M hasnt lost out by not having access to this money.
In BoSs final response to Mrs M dated September 2019 it said had the dispute marker been 
placed on the account in May 2017, payments would have been able to credit the account  
indicating the credit in December 2017 would still have hit the account. But in its 
submissions to this service, BoS has said credits arent automatically permitted when a 
dispute marker is placed on an account  these have to be manually accepted in branch. It 
therefore follows the credit in May 2017 wouldnt have been accepted to the joint account. 
BoS has clarified these conflicting statements  and provided me with evidence of its 
process when a dispute marker is added to an account. Im satisfied, based on the evidence 
Ive seen, that had the dispute marker been added when Mrs M first made BoS aware of the 
marital dispute in May 2017, the credit would not have been accepted onto the account. 
Further, in line with its process when a dispute marker is added to an account, all account 
holders would have received notification at the time. So, the joint account holder would have 
been made aware of the limited access to the account in May 2017, and that credits wouldnt 
be accepted.
I therefore think its likely, on balance, the joint account holder would have made alternative 
arrangements for the credit as they would have been aware it wouldnt have been accepted 
to the account. But in any event, if BoS had correctly applied the dispute maker to the 
account in May 2017, the credit would not have been accepted onto the account in 
December 2017. 
Ive therefore gone on to consider the steps BoS took to put things right in resolution of this 
complaint  to decide if it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
BoS has reworked the bank account to ensure Mrs M is in no worse a financial position than 
before the dispute marker should have been applied. When looking at redress our services 
approach is to put a consumer back in the position they would be in had the error not occurred. Having reviewed the account statements, I can see BoS has ensured this is the 
case  with the balance of the account being brought back to £3,622.79 overdrawn at the 
point it issued its final response on the complaint. So, Im satisfied BoSs steps have ensured 
Mrs M is not in a worse financial position because of its error.
While I do sympathise with Mrs Ms situation, Im satisfied she remains jointly and solely 
liable for the debt. I say this because Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of the joint bank 
account and they provide BoS the ability to ask either party for payment of any money due 
on the account. I dont consider BoSs error should lead to it removing Mrs M from this 
liability  or stop it from asking Mrs M for payment of the debt. BoS has provided contact 
notes for the account and I can see it has attempted to contact the joint account holder for 
payment of the debt too. So, it would appear it has acted fairly in making attempts to contact 
both parties for payment of the debt. 
BoS made a payment of £100 to Mrs M to reflect the distress and inconvenience of the 
situation. I consider this payment to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because Mrs M has suffered inconvenience in dealing with BoSs error. And I understand it 
would have been upsetting for Mrs M when she became aware of the error, as she 
reasonably believed a dispute marker had been added in May 2017. I have no doubt that 
this this would have caused Mrs M distress. But BoS acted reasonably quickly after Mrs M 
informed it that the dispute marker hadnt been put in place  and it looked to ensure she 
wasnt disadvantaged financially. So, I consider BoSs award here is in line with what I would 
reasonably expect it to pay in the circumstances. 
So, while BoS made an error in not applying the dispute marker to the bank account in 
May 2017, Im satisfied the steps its already taken are fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances and it doesnt need to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
Overall, I know this decision will be disappointing to Mrs M but I hope my explanation 
clarifies the outcome.
 
I understand Mrs M is looking to settle the debt with support from her family. I would ask BoS 
to work collaboratively with Mrs M and her family on this matter to achieve an agreeable 
resolution.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint 
about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman