The complaint
Mrs C complains that Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card in 2003.
What happened
In January 2003, Mrs C applied for a credit card. At the same time, PPI was added to the 
account. The cost of the PPI was charged to the account, so Mrs C would repay this extra 
cost with interest in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs C thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs C doesn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs C chose to buy the policy. Mrs C says PPI wasn't 
mentioned when she applied for the credit card, and she wasn't aware that PPI had been 
added to the account. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen 
about the sale.
Canada Square says Mrs C selected PPI on her application. Canada Square has also sent 
me screenshots of its online sales process - which I think is likely to be what Mrs C saw at 
the time. I see this included a section for Mrs C to complete if she wanted PPI. This included 
two options: the first was "Yes, I want to protect my repayments"; the second was "No, I 
understand it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose my job". 
Finally, Canada Square has sent us its records of the application. This suggests that Mrs C 
selected PPI as part of the application.
So although Mrs C says she wasn't told about the PPI, I think it's more likely she knew she 
had a choice about the PPI, and chose to buy it.
As Mrs C applied for the policy online, I don't think the sale followed tailored advice. So 
Canada Square didn't need to make sure the policy was right for Mrs C. But it did need to 
give Mrs C the information she'd need to work out for herself whether or not she wanted it.
DRN-1071183I think it's possible that the information Canada Square gave Mrs C wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs C chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover. Based on what I've seen of her circumstances, it doesn't look as though Mrs C was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover -  so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks as though the PPI was affordable. I 
acknowledge that Mrs C got some sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick. But 
this policy would have paid a tenth of the outstanding balance for up to a year if she couldn't 
work. So I don't think better information would have put her off taking out the cover.
I've considered the other points Mrs C has raised. But I this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman