DRN-3721932
The complaint
L complains about the offer made by Aviva Insurance Limited to settle a claim made under 
their commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
L is a company which owns a commercial property insured with Aviva. They made a claim in 
February 2020 after a fire at the property.
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only give a very brief 
summary of events here.
In short, Aviva offered to settle the claim by paying a reduced proportion (41%) of the total 
claim value. 
They said this was because L had made a careless misrepresentation when taking out the 
policy. In effect, Aviva say L told them a tenant was about to move into the property at the 
time. Whereas in fact, the tenant didnt move in  or at least never paid rent  causing L to 
re-purpose the building and rent only part of it to other clients.
Aviva said that if theyd known the facts at the outset, they would have required a 
significantly increased premium to provide more limited cover. By their calculations, L had 
paid 41% of that notional higher premium and so were entitled to only 41% of the claim value 
in settlement of the claim.
L made a complaint to Aviva, saying that Aviva should pay the full claim value because there 
was no misrepresentation  they had in fact struck an agreement with a tenant at the time, 
which is what they told Aviva. And circumstances changed only after theyd bought the 
policy.
Aviva maintained their stance, so L brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into and agreed with L that there was no misrepresentation at the time the policy was 
bought. 
He said Aviva couldnt settle the claim on the basis theyd suggested and couldnt regard 
what L told them as a misrepresentation. And he asked Aviva to re-consider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Aviva disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that, because this is insurance of a commercial property by a 
company, the applicable law in this case is the Insurance Act 2015.
This Act says that a commercial policyholder, when buying a policy, has a duty to make a 
fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. 
This means they have to disclose everything they know  or ought to know  that would 
influence the judgement of the insurer in deciding whether to provide cover and, if so, on 
what basis. Or enough information to put the insurer on notice that they might need to make 
further enquiries.
The Act also says the policyholder ought to know what should reasonably have been 
revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them. So, in effect, the 
policyholder should take reasonable steps to check any information available to them and 
consider If theres anything they ought to disclose.
In this case, Ls broker told Aviva  when the policy was bought  that the tenants of the 
property would be a government body and that the property was to be used for the storage 
of data and scanned documents.
They said the building would be occupied from inception, once works are complete and 
certainly within one week if not.
And the statement of fact they then agreed said that none of the premises was unfurnished, 
unused or unoccupied.
When Aviva sent investigators to inspect the building after the fire, they found it had been 
split into five separate units, only two of which were occupied by tenants.
L said the prospective tenants  at the time theyd taken out the policy  had agreed to move 
into the building rent-free for three months, whilst they carried out their own work on the 
building to make it fit for their purposes. 
However, after beginning those works, and before the three month period was complete, 
they disappeared and couldnt be contacted again. At that point, L decided to split the 
property and seek tenants for the five separate units. L admit that the draft agreement 
between themselves and the original prospective tenants was drawn up but never signed.
Aviva have said that they believe L was duped by bogus tenants (Avivas words). They 
say essentially that L told them  when the policy was bought  that the prospective tenants 
were going to move in, and the building wouldnt be unoccupied. And L ought to have 
known, if theyd conducted any effective due diligence, that the tenants were unlikely to 
move in and/or pay rent.
It's worth stressing here that Aviva arent suggesting that L did in fact know that the 
prospective tenants were dubious. Theyre saying L ought to have known that, if theyd 
carried out reasonable steps to check the information reasonably available to them.
I can understand Avivas frustration in this case and I can certainly understand their 
arguments, but on balance  and I should stress this is a very finely balanced case  I agree 
with our investigator that they arent entitled to regard the information provided to them by L 
as a misrepresentation (careless or otherwise)  at least not on the basis of the information 
available to them at present.
Ill explain why  and I bear in mind of course that it is for Aviva to demonstrate that there 
has been a careless misrepresentation if they are to rely on the remedies set out in the 
Insurance Act  which is what theyre seeking to do by applying a proportional reduction to 
the claim value in the proposed settlement.I note, first of all, that Ls broker didnt tell Aviva that L had tenants who had signed a 
contract or paid a deposit. And it was clear to Aviva from the information provided that the 
tenant had not yet moved into the premises.
At the time  and Aviva arent disputing this  L believed they had a legitimate client who 
was about to move in. And the broker was clear that the tenant wasnt in the building yet and 
needed to make alterations to the building before it was fit for their purpose.
It's arguable then that L provided sufficient information to, in the terms of the Insurance Act, 
put Aviva on notice that they might need to make further enquiries. For example, Aviva might 
have asked L  at that point  whether a contract had been signed and/or any payment 
taken etc.
Aviva might justifiably regard Ls business practices as slightly odd. But L would say that odd 
or not, the tenant did actually move in and begin the renovation work. And theres no real 
evidence that weve seen that suggests the tenant was in fact involved in any kind of plan to 
defraud L or anyone else. So, it remains open to question whether the tenant was in fact 
attempting to dupe L.
Aviva havent as yet suggested precisely what information L ought to have known at the 
point of inception of the policy and which wasnt disclosed to Aviva. And on balance it would 
be slightly odd to suggest that L should have known  and disclosed  that they were being 
duped. 
On this point, I bear in mind that the Insurance Act says prospective policyholders ought to 
know what would be revealed by a reasonable search of information available to them, not 
what would be revealed by an in-depth investigation. 
On balance than, I cant reasonably conclude that L made a careless misrepresentation 
when buying the policy.
I am aware that Aviva believe that even if there was no misrepresentation, L should have 
told them - in line with the terms of the policy - when it became clear that the original 
prospective tenant had disappeared and the building was re-purposed. 
This appears, on the face of it, to have meant that some of the building was unoccupied for a 
period of time up to and including the date of the fire.
Im also aware that L, on the other hand, regard this as immaterial to the question of whether 
the claim should be settled at full claim value.
That is an entirely different matter and one which Im not considering in this decision. It was 
also the reason our investigator asked Aviva to re-consider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy rather than simply settle at full claim value. 
It would be entirely unfair to pre-empt that argument when neither of the parties has had the 
chance to put forward evidence, information or arguments specifically on that point.
Putting things right
As outlined above, Im satisfied on balance that Aviva cant conclude that L made a 
misrepresentation to them at the time the policy was bought.
That being the case, Aviva must re-consider the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ls complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited must re-consider Ls claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman