DRN-3417233
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice given by Dobson & Hodge Limited to transfer the benefits 
from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr S employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr S was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security
of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In August 2017 Mr S met with Dobson & Hodge and 
it completed a financial planning questionnaire to gather information about his circumstances 
and objectives. Dobson & Hodge also carried out an assessment of Mr S attitude to risk, 
which it initially deemed to be cautious  a rating of 1 on a scale of 1-5. This was later 
revised upwards to cautious to moderate.
Following a further meeting in September 2017 where Dobson & Hodge presented its draft 
advice and recommendation, on 16 October 2017 it issued its formal written advice for Mr S 
to transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the proceeds 
in investment funds, which it deemed matched Mr S attitude to risk. In summary the 
suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were that, while the transfer 
wasnt in Mr S financial best interests, because of his desire for flexibility in retirement, it 
was felt his broader best interests were satisfied by transferring.
Around the same time in October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to 
Choose letter which gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the 
PPF, move to BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their 
choice was 11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr S pension transfer duly completed and around £513,000 was received into his new 
personal pension.
Mr S complained to Dobson & Hodge in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice.
Dobson & Hodge didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In summary it said the transfer advice was 
suitable in light of his needs and circumstances at the time. It said the transfer gave Mr S the 
opportunity to retire early, take more money in the early years , and with a view to reduce the 
income taken once his state pension became payable. It said it clearly informed Mr S of the 
risks, advantages and disadvantages of transferring, including that over his lifetime the 
income from a DB scheme would pay more money than a personal pension arrangement 
and that a personal pension offered no guarantees that the money wouldnt run out.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr S asked this service to consider his complaint. And an 
investigator upheld it and said Dobson & Hodge should pay Mr S compensation. In summary 
they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said the transfer wasnt financially 
viable given the growth rates required to match Mr S DB scheme benefits and because the 
advice paperwork clearly set out that Mr S valued guarantees and certainty, over growth and 
opportunity. They said that while the suitability report did set out things in a way Mr S ought 
to have understood, this didnt mean the advice was suitable. They said they didnt think 
there were any good reasons to recommend the transfer because Mr S retirement needs 
werent known  he couldve deferred his decision closer to retirement when hed likely 
better understand whether flexibility of income was more valuable to him than a guaranteed 
income for life. They said they thought if things had happened as they should have, Mr S 
would have remained in his occupational scheme and opted into the BSPS2. 
Dobson & Hodge disagreed. In summary it said that both the PPF and the BSPS2 wouldve 
resulted in reduced escalation at retirement and because 25% of Mr S total benefit was in 
respect of pre-97 service, if he had chosen the BSPS2 and taken a transfer value later on it 
wouldve dramatically affected the value that wouldve been offered by the scheme. It said if 
it had calculated the critical yields based on the BSPS2 instead of the existing scheme, they 
wouldve been lower  so the investigators measure against the discount rate is not a true 
reflection of the situation Mr S wouldve been in. It said it used the existing scheme as the 
higher critical yields drilled home how valuable the DB scheme benefits were. It went on to 
explain why the recommendation was suitable  primarily because Mr S wanted flexibility  
and it said Mr S was clearly told on several occasions about the guarantees he was giving 
up by transferring. It said given Mr S complaint is that hes unhappy about the guaranteed 
benefits he gave up, it doesnt see why the complaint was upheld given Mr S signed to say 
he understood this at the time.
Following the investigator saying they werent persuaded to change their opinion, Dobson & 
Hodge told us that, without admission of liability, it had carried out a loss assessment. And 
this showed that Mr S had not suffered a loss and so there was no need for it to pay any 
redress. It subsequently said that it wished to offer Mr S £500 to settle the matter.
Despite the investigator telling Mr S that in their view the loss calculation had been carried 
out in line with what theyd recommended in their assessment  i.e. in line with the 
regulators guidance  and there was nothing to indicate itd been carried out incorrectly, 
Mr S did not accept the offer. In summary he said he isnt happy with things  he feels 
overwhelmed with everything and that it seems hes now in a bad compensation process 
and hes going to be on the losing end of this as well as the poor advice to transfer out.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ordinarily in a case like this, Id consider the evidence presented by both parties to the 
dispute to determine whether the advice complained about  in this case the advice provided 
by Dobson & Hodge to transfer Mr S BSPS scheme benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement  was suitable or not in the circumstances, taking into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. And if I found it was unsuitable, Id 
direct Dobson & Hodge to put things right.
But in this particular case, its not necessary for me to do this. This is because Dobson & 
Hodge has already carried out a loss calculation, which shows that Mr S has not lost out as 
a result of the advice he received in October 2017  there is nothing to redress. The loss 
assessment or calculation is in line with what the investigator recommended Dobson & 
Hodge should do to put things right when they upheld the complaint, which in turn is in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on 
how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. This redress methodology is 
also the choice Mr S made when we previously asked him whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now in line with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to 
come into effect in April 2023. 
If a complaint is upheld, the aim of any redress is to put a consumer, as far as possible, into 
the position they would be in now but for the business wrong doing. And Im satisfied that in 
Mr S case, a calculation in line with FG17/9 as I set out above, is an appropriate way to do 
this. Dobson & Hodge has already carried this out, which if I was to uphold his complaint, is 
what I would tell it to do to determine whether Mr S had suffered a financial loss as a result 
of the pension advice he received.
So it follows that, even if I was to uphold Mr S complaint and find Dobson & Hodges advice 
was unsuitable in this case, Mr S would not receive any compensation because its already 
been determined that hes not suffered a financial loss. 
While as the investigator told Mr S, were not able to give an actuarial assessment of the 
calculation, Ive not seen anything to indicate that it is not in line with what I would expect 
Dobson & Hodge to do in this case. And Mr S has not given any reason why he thinks the 
calculation is wrong  hes just disappointed. So Im satisfied it would not be fair to direct 
Dobson & Hodge to carry out the calculation again - theres nothing more Dobson & Hodge 
needs to do to put things right.
I  understand Mr S is disappointed at not receiving compensation and he feels hes on the 
losing end of the compensation process - but what this all essentially means is that Mr S 
pension fund has sufficient value now to enable him to purchase an income that he would 
otherwise have received from his DB scheme. So I hope he can see that, hes not lost out as 
a result of the advice he received, which is why there is no compensation payable here. 
My final decision
Ive decided that, even if I found the advice to transfer Mr S BSPS pension to a personal 
pension was unsuitable and I upheld the complaint, no compensation is payable in any 
event. This is because Im satisfied Dobson & Hodge Limited has already carried out a 
calculation in line with what I would direct it to do to determine fair redress in this case, and 
this shows there is no loss  Mr S has not lost out as a result of the advice he received.
Dobson & Hodge Limited has nevertheless offered to pay Mr S £500, which in the 
circumstances is fair. So Dobson & Hodge Limited should pay Mr S £500. Theres nothing 
more Dobson & Hodge Limited needs to do to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman