DRN-4305106
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has rejected her claim for a lost 
mobile phone.
References to Aviva include its agents and claims administrators.
What happened
Miss M purchased a new mobile phone in September 2022. It was insured by Aviva from the 
day she collected it from the store. On 28 April 2023 she reported that shed lost the phone.  
Her claim was reviewed, and further information was requested regarding the circumstances 
leading to the loss of the phone. As Miss M had said that shed tried to call her phone from 
her fathers phone following the loss, Aviva asked for a copy of her fathers phone bill to 
evidence that such a call had been made. 
Further information was requested from Miss M, and a further review was undertaken of her 
claim. Having investigated the claim, Aviva had concerns about the circumstances of Miss 
Ms claim: 
There was another ongoing claim from the same property submitted on 26 April 
2023, two days before Miss Ms claim. 
There had also been another claim made from Miss Ms address in similar 
circumstances on 7 September 2022.
There was similarity in phrasing on claim forms leading Aviva to believe that the 
responses were written by the same person
Miss M had advised Aviva that she wasnt aware of any other claims at her address, 
and no other claims had been discussed with her family. 
Miss M was asked for clarification but didnt provide this.
On 29 May 2023 Aviva received confirmation that the phone was being used with an 
international SIM card in a country with which Miss M was linked, based on the identification 
documents shed provided to Aviva. Miss M was asked if she had any explanation for this 
and to give her consent for Aviva to speak to other organisations and the police in that other 
country . She responded that she wasnt aware of this and she herself hadnt left this 
country. After many requests from Aviva Miss M gave her consent.
Aviva then established that Miss Ms phone was now being used in another country with an 
international SIM card. The phones from the claims made on 7 September 2022 and 26 April 
2023 were also now being used with a SIM card from that country. It referred her to her 
policy terms relating to fraudulent claims:
If we have reasonable grounds to believe that your claim is in any way dishonest or 
exaggerated, we may cancel your policy immediately and not pay any benefit or return 
any premium to you. We may also take legal action against you.
It also referred her to its right to cancel the policy:
We (or any agent we appoint and who acts with our specific authority) may also cancel 
this policy for any valid reason. Valid reasons include, but are not limited to: 
 reasonable suspicion of fraud or where you have failed to provide us with complete 
and accurate information, as required by the Changes we need to know about 
section. We may refuse any claim and cancel your policy immediately. Where your 
actions are deliberate or reckless you will not be entitled to a refund. We may also 
take legal action against you 
Aviva has said that in light of the evidence collected during the investigation of the claim, it 
had reached a reasonable suspicion of fraudulent claims activity from Miss Ms address, with 
three claims for the same make of phone in less than 12 months. All three phones were now 
being used with SIM Cards from network providers in the same country. This was in addition 
to the suspicion of fraud from what it had identified when investigating the claim, listed 
above.
On 2 June 2023 Aviva made the decision to decline Miss Ms claim due to concerns about its 
authenticity. It issued its final response letter on 10 July 2023 and Miss Ms policy was 
cancelled on 27 August 2023.
Miss M wasnt satisfied with Avivas rejection of her claim and its response to her complaint, 
so she brought a complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that he didnt 
consider that it was unreasonable for Aviva to request further information to support Miss 
Ms claim and considered that it had grounds to suspect that her claim was being made 
dishonestly.
Miss M doesnt agree with our investigators view, so her complaint has been referred to me 
as an ombudsman to review it and to provide a final response from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint, and Ill explain why.
Its not unreasonable for an insurer to require information to support a claim. Miss Ms policy 
requires this. Having made further enquiries of Miss M, and having investigated her claim, I 
consider that Aviva had sufficient reason to question its validity. 
In my view Aviva had reasonable grounds to suspect that Miss Ms claim was dishonest, not 
least that this was the third claim made by members of her family for a lost phone in seven 
months, and all three phones had been traced to the same foreign country, which is a 
country with which Miss M has a connection. Miss M had also initially denied any knowledge 
of other claims made from the same household, which I consider to be implausible 
particularly as both claimants said that they had called their missing phones from their 
fathers phone. 
I have to consider whether Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss M when 
declining her claim, and in my opinion it hasnt. It has acted in accordance with the terms of 
her policy which Ive quoted above. Im therefore not going to require it to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman