DRN-3160020
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S (the complainants) say Mercer Limited (Mercer) deprived them of the 
ongoing advice service they paid for and were entitled to, specifically during the period 
between February/March and August 2020. They refer to Mercers service to Mr S Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to their respective Individual Savings Accounts 
(ISAs), and they say they were left without an adviser (and without advice) during the above 
period. They also say that the absence of advice led to a total loss of over £41,000 in the 
three accounts, to their decision to liquidate (into cash and for the purpose of mitigating the 
losses) £125,000 from Mr S SIPP and ISA, and to facing the prospect of reinvesting at 
higher prices thereafter. They seek compensation from Mercer.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She mainly found as follows:
Mr S chronology of events shows that he rang his usual adviser on 26 February 
seeking advice on his diminishing funds but did not get through; he chased and on 28 
February he spoke to the advisers colleague who said the adviser was on sick leave 
and should be returning soon; he chased even further and spoke to four colleagues 
on 5 and 17 March, informing the last two of his concerns about accumulating losses 
in the accounts (over £20,000 of lost value in the SIPP at the time) and the idea of 
moving into cash to stem the losses; on 19 March he instructed the liquidations in his 
SIPP and ISA, as well as a £7,200 tax free drawdown from the SIPP; in late April he 
complained about the lack of advice and information about his adviser; around the 
same time Mercer informed him that a new adviser was being allocated to him; and 
on 7 August he received notice about appointment of the new adviser.
Despite these experiences, it is not established that they impacted on the losses 
incurred by the complainants by the time they withdrew from the market (through the 
liquidations). Mercer failed to inform them that their adviser had been on garden 
leave [upon his resignation] since January, it could have provided a better service in 
this respect. However, it is not unusual for employees to leave a firm and it is not 
always possible to replace an adviser immediately. In the present case, the adviser 
had conducted an annual review in July 2019, and with regards to the complainants 
seeking advice in early 2020 Mr S had spoken to two of the advisers colleagues in 
February and March during which he was told not to encash his funds. Even if a full 
review had taken place at the time, it is likely Mercers advice would have been the 
same (that is, not to panic). The pandemic was unexpected and unprecedented, it is 
unlikely that any adviser at the time would have been able to predict the markets 
recovery with absolute certainty. In this context, it is difficult to say how much 
reassurance Mr S would have needed to retain his investments.
Mr S has claimed a refund of service fees that were paid over the relevant period, on 
the basis that no such service was given by Mercer. The agreed terms of service said 
Mercer was obliged to provide annual reviews, which it did up to July 2019. Allocation 
of a permanent adviser was not an obligation of Mercers under those terms, so this 
cannot reasonably be a basis to uphold Mr S claim for a refund. Mercer has made a 
fair and reasonable offer of £150 for the stress and inconvenience caused in the 
matter, and that is a fair outcome.
The complainants disagreed with the investigators main findings and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. In the main, they do not consider that Mercer has made a realistic 
offer with regards to its failure to properly inform them about their advisers departure and 
with regards to the trouble and inconvenience they have been caused in the case; they 
consider that Mercers descriptions of Mr S conversations with the advisers colleagues 
remain unsupported due to absence of transcripts for those conversations; they retain the 
views that they incurred fees for a service that was not provided and that the absent service 
led directly to their substantial financial losses.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A copy of the February 2020 version of the terms for Mercers service has been shared with 
us. I am satisfied that this would have been applicable to the events in this case between 
February/March and August 2020. This case is about Mercers ongoing service to the 
complainants so I have paid attention to the terms provisions in this respect.
Two ongoing service options existed, a Retained financial planning service and an On 
demand service. The former (the retained service), unlike the latter, was for clients who 
wanted annual reviews as part of the service, so that was the service the complainants had. 
There is evidence confirming that they received an annual review service and that a full 
annual review of their accounts was conducted for them in July 2019. It is noteworthy that 
the advisers follow-up letter to them, of 23 July 2019, invited them to contact him if anything 
arose between then and the next review [in 2020] that he needed to be aware of. This is also 
consistent with the term that the retained service entitled the complainants to direct access 
to [their] named Financial Planner and support team . For these reasons, I accept that 
they reasonably expected the direct access to their adviser as Mr S (on their joint behalf) 
sought from February to March 2020.
The retained service had three main aspects  the annual review service, the help and 
support service, which included the direct access provision I quoted above, and a newsletter 
and publications service. As described in the terms, the annual review was the venue for 
considering and addressing the complainants investor profiles, their holdings, any agreed 
changes to those holdings and their ongoing suitability. This was an annual exercise and the 
help and support service in between annual reviews did not exist as an ongoing substitute, 
so the implication is that whilst the complainants reasonably expected direct access to their 
adviser as Mr S sought at the time, it was not reasonable to expect from such access the 
level of detailed consideration and advice about the accumulating losses in their accounts as 
they appear to have wanted.
In the above context, I understand and agree with the investigators observations on what  
Mr S received at the time. He did not gain access to his named adviser, but it will be wrong 
to say that he and his enquiries were abandoned by Mercer. His chronology statement 
confirms that between February and March he was able to convey his concerns, to the 
advisers colleagues, about the diminishing values in the accounts, so he was listened to. 
Available evidence also shows that, in response, he was encouraged not to panic, so he was 
given a form of interim advice  albeit not as detailed as he would have liked and not by his named adviser, but it should not be forgotten that these were events outside the annual 
review so advice equivalent to what he would have received during an annual review could 
not reasonably have been expected. 
I also note the following:
An email (dated 17 March 2020) from Mr S to one of the advisers colleagues, in 
which he referred to his conversation with him earlier in the day and asked for 
documentation to instruct liquidation. The colleague responded around an hour later 
with a summary of the state of the SIPP and with a request for Mr S to be specific 
about his instruction in order to ensure he was given the correct forms. There is also 
reference to the instruction being handled on an execution only basis and Mercer has 
explained that this was an isolated step because the liquidation Mr S sought went 
against its interim advice to him not to panic/to leave the SIPP as it was. Mr S then 
replied on 19 February with precise instructions on the liquidations (which he 
described as a temporary measure) and drawdown. Mercer emailed him the next day 
to confirm how his instructions were being processed.
An email (dated 23 March) from Mr S to Mercer chasing an update on his liquidation 
instruction. Mercer replied promptly to say the relevant sales were placed on 20 
March, that completion should be within five working days and that he will be updated 
when the funds were in cash.
An email (dated 22 April) from Mercer to Mr S saying it had previously written to him 
about the advisers departure (and about other matters brought about by the onset of 
the pandemic), apologising if that communication had not been received and 
confirming that whilst it was in the process of allocating a new adviser/financial 
planner for him, he was welcome to contact for help.
Overall and on balance, I consider the above shows that Mercers ongoing help and support 
service was provided by colleagues of the adviser and its support team to the complainants 
 in addition to the interim advice given by the advisers colleagues, to Mr S, not to panic 
about their investments. I note his argument about the absence of transcript evidence of 
such advice, but the fact that an execution only declaration for his instruction was 
transparently part of the process shows his acknowledgement at the time that his 
instructions, in isolation (and despite the ongoing service), were not advised. This supports 
Mercers position that its interim advice was the opposite (to do nothing). Mr S could argue 
that his instructions happened because of the complete absence of any advice, not because 
he was going against interim advice. I can understand such an argument but, on balance, I 
consider that if that was the case the email communications between the parties at the time 
would have reflected it. There is no such reflection. His emails appear to display wilful 
instructions on his part and no objection, comment, or qualifications about having to proceed 
on an execution only basis.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded by the complainants 
claim that they were deprived the ongoing service they paid for, instead I consider they 
received it. I also do not find grounds to conclude, on balance, that they were denied a form 
of ongoing advice and/or that the advice they received was unsuitable. With regards to the 
latter, I share the investigators considerations about the unpredicted and unprecedented 
nature of the pandemic and its impact on the markets at the time. If Mercer is to be criticised 
for its interim advice about not panicking, I have not seen evidence in this case on why that 
was unsuitable in the prevailing circumstances and on what a suitable alternative form of 
advice from Mercer would have been given the widespread market uncertainties at the time.Mercer should have been transparent with the complainants about what was going on with 
their named adviser. I can understand that, in strict terms, an employee who has resigned 
but remains on garden leave until the relevant effective date of termination can be viewed as 
continuing as an employee until that date, but the reality was that the complainants named 
adviser stopped being available to them upon the start of his garden leave. That should have 
been immediately communicated to them as a matter of course and certainly upon Mr S 
contact in February. Instead, Mercer appears to have taken the approach of communicating 
this when termination was effective in April. It should have done that earlier. 
However, it has offered £150 for the trouble and inconvenience this caused and I consider it 
a fair offer in the circumstances of the case. As I have addressed above, the complainants 
were not abandoned in the advisers absence, they continued to receive an ongoing service. 
A replacement adviser was in place around the time the 2020 annual review was due and 
she made contact in early August 2020 to arrange that review. These factors would have 
reduced, notably, the trouble caused to the complainants.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman