DRN-4234046
The complaint
Mr B complains as the holder of a power of attorney for Mrs P, that Lloyds Bank PLC 
wouldn't let him upgrade Mrs P's account online and that he could only do this by visiting a 
branch of the bank.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr B attempted to upgrade Mrs Ps saver account so that she could get 
a higher rate of interest. However he could not complete this online as it would only allow 
him to open an account in his own name. He had to visit the branch with Mrs P to complete 
the upgrade which caused him and Mrs P inconvenience. He believes that Lloyds Bank 
should change its policies to enable such accounts to be upgraded online. He is concerned 
that Mrs P would have been vulnerable to fraud if Lloyds had allowed him to open such an 
account in his own name.
Lloyds explained that its policies do not allow donor accounts to be upgraded online. Mr B 
could have completed the upgrade over the telephone or by going into the branch, which he 
did. He would not have been able to transfer funds from Mrs Ps accounts into his personal 
account online.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator explained that as Mr B was 
not the complainant rather that he complained on behalf of Mrs P, he could only consider the 
merits of the complaint from Mrs P's point of view. He said that he couldn't ask Lloyds to 
change its policy so wouldn't be taking any further action.
Mr B said he appreciated that any compensation should be awarded to Mrs P and that any 
remedy would be for her benefit. He maintained that Lloyds policy put her to inconvenience 
and vulnerable to fraud.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B's complaint to be about the restrictions on him being able to update or 
open accounts in Mrs P's name online. He is concerned that he would have been able to 
open an account in his own name and that this would encourage fraud.
The position, as I understand it, is that Mr B would indeed have been able to open an 
account in his own name online. But he would not have been able to link it to any accounts 
held in the name of Mrs P without going into the branch, or by telephone. So I think that the 
restrictions placed on using the donor account online are actually to prevent fraud as to open 
or upgrade an account in Mrs P's name would have required additional identification in 
branch or over the telephone.
As it is Lloyds policy to operate donor accounts in that way, I don't think it would be 
reasonable to ask it to change its policy. I note that it has fed back Mr Bs comments in 
respect of any future review of that policy.
As Im not upholding the complaint, I can't award compensation. As the upgrading could 
have been done over the phone, I don't think in any event that Mrs P needed to be 
inconvenienced. 
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman