DRN-4239786
The complaint
Mrs and Mr N complain about the effectiveness of repairs carried out by AXA Insurance UK 
Plc (AXA) following a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here. 
In 2015 a vehicle collided with Mrs and Mr Ns home causing damage to the front 
elevation, entrance hall and downstairs toilet. And they reported this to AXA.
AXA accepted the claim and its contractors carried out repairs. 
Mrs and Mr N tell us they werent happy with the service provided by AXAs 
contractors, and they had to call them back on numerous occasions as cracks had 
appeared in the downstairs toilet. They add these were remedied with flexible filler.
Mrs and Mr N tell us that in November 2022 a visitor to their home pointed out the 
cracks had reappeared. And they contacted AXA.
Mrs and Mr N engaged a structural engineer who visually assessed the cracking and 
provided a report which was shared with AXA.
AXA gave its final response in February 2023. It said its in house surveyors had 
reviewed the structural engineers report and photographs Mrs and Mr N had 
provided and the scope of works from 2015. It added the surveyors confirmed the 
correct works had been completed in 2015 and the recent damage was not due to 
failed repairs.
AXA acknowledged there were delays is advising Mrs and Mr N of its findings and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience this had caused. It awarded £50 in 
compensation and a further £25 as a goodwill gesture because of its delayed 
response.
Mrs and Mr N remained dissatisfied and contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted the structural surveyor said 
the cracks are most likely related to the vehicle impact in 2015 but didnt feel there 
was enough evidence to say the original repair work was incorrect. She was more 
persuaded by AXAs response because if AXA had failed to carry out repairs correctly 
this wouldve become apparent much sooner than 2022. She said had any repairs 
failed or necessary repairs been missed it wouldve been noticed sooner.
Mrs and Mr N remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and largely for the same 
reasons.
Ive considered the structural engineers report Mrs and Mr N obtained. It refers to minor 
diagonal cracking on the front elevation of the side extension above the entrance door, very 
minor cracking behind the drainwater down-pipe and minor cracking internally between the 
gable and front elevation. The report goes on to say the cracks are generally limited to the 
mortar joints and do not appear to affect the masonry units. The report states:
It is understood that the reconstruction works did not extend to the junction between the 
front masonry panel and gable wall. However, it is likely that the vehicle impact affected 
the corner brickwork and minor movement may have been caused; but not resolved at 
the time of the remedial works.
Considering the excellent condition of the property, it is reasonable to infer that the 
vehicle impact damage affected the masonry around the entrance door opening. 
Therefore, it is assumed that the diagonal cracking running from the top left hand corner 
of the opening is dated c. 2015 and is unlikely due to foundation and thermal movement.
AXA have provided reports outlining the extent of the damage that the vehicle impact caused 
in 2015, and the schedule of works required to rectify the damage. Its surveyors have 
commented that its contractor carried out the works required as per the schedule and say 
had the diagonal crack been present in 2015 it wouldve been included in the repairs. AXA 
add that it was unlikely the cracks wouldve been missed as Mrs and Mr N wouldve reported 
this given they called the contactor back to fill in other cracks.
Having considered the testimony both parties have provided Im more persuaded the cracks 
were not overlooked in 2015, and that repairs were made to the impacted areas of the 
extension. 
Having determined the damaged areas were repaired Ive gone on to consider the 
effectiveness of the repairs. I note Mrs and Mr N say the only area of their property that has 
cracks present is the elevation that the car impacted, that is the front elevation of the side 
extension to their property. AXA say had the repairs it undertook to the extension not been 
carried out correctly the cracks wouldve become apparent sooner, and I find this 
reasonable.
AXA conclude the internal damage is indicative of thermal movement and is a maintenance 
issue. I note there is no dispute the damage is minor and not structurally significant. 
Having weighed up the evidence from both parties, including the pictures Mrs and Mr N 
shared with AXA Im more persuaded the damage was not caused by the 2015 impact. And 
its reasonable for AXA to say the cracks observed in 2022 are maintenance issue and it 
carried out lasting and effective repairs.  
In the circumstances of this case I find that AXA have acted reasonably in not agreeing to 
carry out further works to Mrs and Mr Ns property.
I note it has accepted there were delays in responding to Mrs and Mr N and it has paid a 
total of £75 in recognition of this, and I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman