DRN-3173404
The complaint
Mr T complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA), saying it caused 
unnecessary delays when handling a claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr T claimed on his RSA home insurance policy in July 2017.
Unhappy with delays, Mr T complained and brought a complaint to this Service. 
Under a separate complaint, RSA was directed to pay £850 in compensation for 
events taking place between 12 September 2017 and 23 October 2018.
The complaint Mr T has now brought to this Service concerns the events that followed 
between 23 October 2018 and 3 April 2019.
RSAs loss adjuster (Company A) took over settlement of the claim in October 2018. 
Mr T continued to chase for this settlement across this time. In December 2018 RSA 
told Mr T that due to the time that had passed, he would need to obtain quotes for 
works again. He did this but highlighted this was the third time hed been asked to 
obtain quotes, and that it had been difficult to find reputable contractors. He said of 
28 contractors he contacted, only 3 provided quotes.
On receipt of these RSA said it needed further information from contractors. It initially 
said it would obtain this itself, then after some time asked Mr T to request this. 
The settlement figure was provided to Mr T in April 2019. This did not include details 
of VAT or an explanation that VAT would be paid on receipt of a VAT invoice. Mr T 
said this caused him additional stress.
Mr T complained, and RSA acknowledged it caused delays of around five months 
and awarded him £400 in compensation. It has also clarified it would pay VAT on 
receipt of a VAT invoice, and 8% on top of any settlement in light of its delays.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She explained RSAs delays 
and the resultant additional work required of Mr T added to an already very stressful 
time. Mr T had to attend many hospital appointments during this time related to a 
medical condition his wife experiences. And the pressures of the claim prevented him 
from caring for her as he wouldve wished to.
The Investigator said RSA should pay an additional £200, bringing compensation to 
£600 for this period.
RSA agreed it should have handled the claim more proactively, and with more 
urgency. It said the delays it caused were up to four months. But it said the £400 it 
offered was fair. And the information it had needed from contractors was necessary 
as part of its claims process. It also recognised the difficulty in sourcing contractors 
for the works. It also referenced the previous complaint, saying £850 in that instance 
covered a longer period of delays and uncertainty.
Mr T also disagreed, saying the compensation was too low in light of the impact.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
RSA has acknowledged it hasnt handled this claim promptly as it is required to. And it has 
recognised its delays have caused the claim to extend for an additional four months. There 
has been some back and forth over the exact period of delay. But from what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied this is around four or five months of delay for this period of the claim.
RSAs actions and delays have also led to Mr T having to obtain additional quotes as 
previous ones had become outdated. RSA has recognised finding appropriate contractors to 
provide quotes was made much more difficult by the specific nature of these works  which 
was reflected in the number of contractors he had to contact. In turn, RSA should recognise 
that obtaining these quotes wouldve taken up a lot of Mr Ts available time. 
Mr Ts circumstances are known to RSA, and its not disputed that he had hospital 
appointments to attend across this time. And I have no doubt these additional responsibilities 
related to the claim caused him frustration and stress at an otherwise already difficult time 
for him and his household. It also strikes me that this administration Mr T was required to 
carry out wouldve impacted his home life.
RSA has highlighted compensation previously awarded at an earlier point during the life of 
this claim for reference. However, in light of the cumulative nature of this frustration that has 
built up over time I dont think this is a useful comparison. I say this I think the impact of 
these delays has to be looked at through the lens of Mr T  who has experienced a lot of 
frustration over several years dealing with this claim  leading to this point. 
In addition, the sums paid already for the previous complaint relate to past mistakes and the 
impact of those. This complaint, and the compensation in question, seek to recognise and 
put right what has gone wrong since.
Im satisfied RSAs further mistakes on the same claim, even after the matter has been 
considered by this Service previously, have caused him the additional and unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience to a degree that justifies the £600 compensation awarded.
I appreciate Mr T feels strongly a larger sum should be awarded, and Im sympathetic to his 
situation, but Im satisfied this sum is fair and reasonable in these circumstances.
RSA has apologised for the matter relating to the VAT explanation. But has said Mr T has 
yet to provide it with a VAT receipt so has questioned the significance of this. I take on board 
RSAs point here. However, I think this consideration is limited in impact compared to the 
delays and requests for further quotes anyway  so this hasnt changed my mind.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must pay Mr T £600 in 
compensation. It can deduct any compensation already paid for this complaint.  RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr T accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman