DRN-3428266
The complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc closed his account and registered a marker at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Santander said that it had decided to close Mr Os account. It had received a report of fraud. 
And that Mr O hadnt provided any evidence to show that he was entitled to the funds 
involved. It had been obliged to report what happened to CIFAS.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was a 
high bar for adding a CIFAS marker. Santander had received a report about two payments 
into Mr Os account on 25 April 2020. The sender had said that there had been a scam. And 
Santander identified a further payment to Mr O on 29 April 2020 as one fraudulently 
obtained. Mr O had told it that the money was a refund of flights hed purchased. But this 
didnt match up with the nature of the credits.
Our adjudicator had sent him a copy of his account statement. And Mr O had said that a 
credit for £700 was this flight refund. He said a friend had paid for it and this had been 
refunded. A credit of £390 was money owed by a friend, but he didnt give that persons 
name. And a credit of £228 was a refund for a jacket purchased online. There were now 
inconsistencies to what hed said in the names of the senders. And no explanation of why 
these amounts were reported as fraudulent or any evidence to support these being genuine. 
So, he thought that Mr O had known that these were fraudulent payments. Santander had a 
basis to register the marker and to decide to close his account.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that he didnt accept the outcome. And he said he had mental 
health problems at the time. This marker has meant he cant open an account elsewhere. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Santander 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
Santander has recorded that it did speak with Mr O at the time about these payments. And 
that he wasnt able to show he was entitled to the money. The initial two credits of £228 and 
£700 were quickly removed from his account. And his account had been restricted by the 
time the further credit of £390 was received on 29 April 2020.
Ive seen that these credits were reported as fraudulently obtained. Mr O cant account for 
that and says that this was money arranged through friends and a refund. The names of the 
people sending the money dont tie up to what he says. And he has no evidence to support 
him being entitled to this money. He hasnt explained why his mental health issues at the 
time would have affected what happened. I find it most likely he was complicit in receiving 
fraudulently obtained money to his account.
Santander says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr O received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Santander was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Santander needs to have enough information to make 
a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Os account of events and the evidence Santander has provided, Im 
satisfied that Santander had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr O received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Santander at 
the time.
- Mr O authorised the withdrawal of part of the funds and was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Santander had grounds to believe that Mr O had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
I also agree that it was entitled to decide to close his account in these circumstances. I 
appreciate what Mr O says about the impact on him, but I dont have a reasonable basis to 
require Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman