DRN-2706031
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was mis-sold a pension by a pension provider (Provider L) whose 
obligations have since been taken over by ReAssure Limited. He wants compensation 
What happened
In January 1986 Mr H took out a pension with Provider L, initially contributing £30 a month. 
He says a Provider L representative visited his then workplace and provided an illustration 
quoting a retirement income of over £30,000 a year. He says he was verbally guaranteed it 
wouldnt be less than £16,000 per year. Mr H also says that a retirement age of 65 was 
agreed.
Over the next thirty or so years Mr H made contributions to the pension policy, increasing 
them on a number of occasions. 
In 2019 Mr H complained to Provider L that the figures he was now being quoted for his 
pension were nowhere near what was quoted when he took it out. Provider L said that it 
didnt have detailed records as these werent required at the time Mr H took out his pension 
in 1986. It said that at that time it had to ensure that any products recommended were 
broadly suitable. It said that starting his own pension was a sensible and tax efficient 
decision as he didnt have an employer option available.
 
Provider L said it didnt have a copy of the illustration he was given at the point of sale. But it 
wouldve shown the potential benefits at different assumed growth rates these werent 
guaranteed. It was sorry Mr H was unhappy with the returns, but that didnt mean it was 
unsuitable for him. So it didnt uphold the complaint. 
There was some further correspondence between Mr H and Provider L, but he remained 
unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into it and issued a view. He didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he said:
He hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Provider L guaranteed the level of 
income Mr H would receive.
He understood Mr H felt misled, however the illustrations showed what the pension 
may achieve  Provider L cant be expected to know what will happen over the life of 
an investment that could last 30 years or more.
Mr Hs premiums were invested in its with-profits fund and a document given to him 
at the point of sale showed that Mr Hs pension income was dependent on the level 
of contributions, the bonuses paid by the with-profits fund, and the premium rates at 
the time of his contributions 
The annual statements available show Mr Hs retirement date was 70.
He concluded by saying that:
Having looked through all the available evidence, I cant agree [Provider L] did 
anything wrong when they sold you the policy. Ive seen no evidence they promised 
or guaranteed any returns they arent honouring and there is nothing to suggest your 
pension or investment has been mismanaged. You are likely to receive considerably 
less retirement income than was expected in 1986 due to market conditions, but I 
cant hold [Provider L] responsible for how the investment product has performed.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view. Mr H said the forecast sent annually didnt say 
it was an estimate. Our investigator didnt change his view -he said the illustrations did 
clearly state it was an estimated benefit. 
Since Mr H brought his complaint to us Provider Ls obligations have been taken over by 
ReAssure so its now responsible for any actions of Provider L. Mr H indicated he also 
wishes to complain about that transfer. Our investigator told Mr H that this was a new 
complaint that couldnt be dealt with as part of this one. 
Mr H asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said that the estimate given to him when 
he took out the policy was of an annual pension of around £34,000 and a cash lump sum of 
around £104,000, with a pension pot of some £338,000, based on contributions of £30 a 
month. He said he was given these figures to entice him into taking out the policy. Hed paid 
in £60 a month for the last 20 years and his pension was nowhere near that despite years 
where interest rates were high. 
So the complaint came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H is very disappointed that his pension hasnt performed in the way he 
expected it to. Thats understandable. But Im afraid Im going to have to disappoint him, as 
Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why shortly.
 
Before I do that, I should explain what Im able to deal with in this decision. Since Mr H 
brought his complaint to us Provider Ls obligations have been transferred to ReAssure so it 
is now responsible for any actions of Provider L. Mr H indicated he also wishes to complain 
about that transfer. As our investigator explained, that is a new complaint that cant be dealt 
with as part of his existing complaint. So I wont be considering it here. But I can say that the 
transfer doesnt make any difference to the outcome of this complaint, as ReAssure are now 
legally responsible for Provider Ls conduct, and obligations. So it doesnt lessen or change 
Mr Hs rights. 
Mr H took out his pension in early 1986, more than 35 years ago. Because of this, 
information and evidence isnt available, through no fault of any of the parties. So I must 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, and what is fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances. 
Mr H says he was given estimates and a verbal guarantee of pension income to entice him 
into taking out the pension. Ive looked carefully at the information available to me, and like 
our investigator, there isnt anything to suggest that at the time Mr H was sold the pension he 
was guaranteed a certain level of income. So Im not persuaded that was the case, although 
I dont doubt the sincerity of Mr Hs recollections. 
It is plain that the policy hasnt performed anywhere near the level contained in the estimate 
at the point of sale. But Im not persuaded that this means the estimate was unfairly 
prepared to entice Mr H and others into taking out the policy. Unfortunately the assumptions 
on which the estimate were based (such as investment performance and inflation levels) are not available, so I cant say how the estimate was calculated. But the investment 
environment has changed greatly over the more than 35 years since the policy was taken 
out. Just because it hasnt performed as estimated doesnt mean that the estimate was 
inappropriate at the time it was prepared. So Im not persuaded the estimate was unfair or 
unreasonable, although I appreciate this will disappoint Mr H. It follows from this that Im not 
persuaded the estimate was an unfair enticement to Mr H to get him to take out the policy.
 
Mr H questions the performance of the policy, given what he says were some good years for 
interest rates. He expected it to increase more as he reached his early sixties, and it hasnt. 
Its understandable that Mr H is disappointed his pension hasnt performed as he expected it 
to, but that doesnt mean that it has been mismanaged. 
As indicated in the fact sheet provided to Mr H when he took out the policy, his contributions 
have been invested in a with-profits fund. The FCA requires policy providers to have and 
publish a document called Principles and Practices of Financial Management (PPFM) which 
explains how it manages its with-profits funds including the nature and extent of decisions it 
takes to manage the fund and how it applies discretion to treat customers fairly. Among 
other things, the PPFM sets out how policy values are calculated. Ive no reason to think that 
the FCA is concerned about the management of the with-profits fund Mr H is invested in.
 
Mr H also thinks the age at which he can take his pension has been changed from 65 to 70. I 
can see that the estimated benefits document provided when Mr H took out the policy shows 
a retirement age of 65. But the fact sheet, and all other documents, including the annual 
statements, show a retirement age of 70. I dont think the retirement age has been changed 
 I think it more likely that the illustration in the estimate was based on an age of 65. Mr H 
can still take his pension at 65, but the benefits will be less than at 70.
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman