DRN-4120016
The complaint
Miss L and Miss M are unhappy Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has
restricted the settlement amount following a claim for a stolen watch.
What happened
In August 2022 Miss L and Miss M were the victims of a violent burglary. Two watches and a 
pair of sunglasses were stolen. Miss L and Miss M made a claim to Lloyds, their home 
insurance provider.
Lloyds settled the claim for one of the watches and the sunglasses. However, they didnt pay 
the new equivalent value of the remaining watch. This is because Lloyds said the limit under 
the policy was lower than the current value new, so the limit was the most they would pay.
Miss L and Miss M dont think this is fair. They argue the policy terms say Lloyds would pay 
the full new value of the item, rather than restricting settlement. As Lloyds position remained 
the same, Miss L and Miss M approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt uphold it. She referred to 
the policy terms which she said told Miss L and Miss M the limit would apply. So, she didnt 
recommend Lloyds do anything further.
Miss L and Miss M didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached the same overall outcome as our investigator, but for different reasons. So, I 
issued a provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same overall outcome as our investigator. 
However, there are different reasons for doing so. Therefore, Im issuing a 
provisional decision, to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
I can see that in one of Lloyds final response letters, they referred to a term which 
they say was on page nine of Miss L and Miss Ms policy, which mentioned specified 
item limits. Our investigator also outlined this term as part of their reasoning why they 
werent upholding the complaint. The term referred to by both was:
If youve named the item, we will cover it up to the amount you have 
specified it for.
Miss L and Miss M have challenged both Lloyds and our investigator on this term, as 
they say it isnt on page nine of any of the policy documents they have received. 
Having considered all the information provided by both parties, I agree with what 
Miss L and Miss M have said here, as I also cant see it in any of the documents, 
either on page nine, or any other page for that matter.
In another of Lloyds final response letters, they said they send documents at each 
renewal and that they asked Miss L and Miss M to check the limits on the policy. Our 
investigator also said the same.
Miss L and Miss M have also challenged the renewal documents being referred to as 
they say they arent relevant. I also agree with what Miss L and Miss M say here, as 
the theft and claim was in the first year of the policy, and that was prior to the renewal 
and the renewal documents that have been referred to.
However, whilst I agree with Miss L and Miss M on both these points, and I 
appreciate it will come as a disappointment to them, Im still minded to conclude the 
overall settlement Lloyds has already offered for the watch is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has offered £6,456 in settlement of the watch because they say this was the 
amount that it was specified for. Miss L and Miss M say the settlement should be the 
new replacement value which totals £9,150. The crux of Miss L and Miss Ms 
argument that it should be the full amount is because their policy terms and 
conditions  point two  confirms:
How we settle claims under your Contents covers
We can either repair or replace any item or make a money payment 
instead.
We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available or otherwise the 
nearest equivalent less any discounts obtainable.
If an item is irreplaceable, we will base our payment on expert opinion of 
its value immediately prior to its loss or damage.
Miss L and Miss M argue that this specific term doesnt outline there is a different 
way in which specified item claims would be settled, or that there would be a policy 
limit (the amount specified) rather than settling at the cost of replacing the item new if 
it is more than that.
Miss L and Miss M are arguing on the basis of this term being read in isolation. 
However, in the same part of the policy this term is in, and on the same page, it also 
says:How we settle claims
This section details how we settle claims under your policy. We decide how a 
claim will be settled.
What we pay:
The most we will pay for any one event or series of events is the amount 
shown in your latest policy schedule.
So, this also says applicable limits would be in the policy schedule. And 
Miss L and Miss Ms policy is made up of a number of documents which include the 
schedule and Insurance Product Information Document (IPID), not just the specific 
term theyve referred to in isolation. And all the documents need to be read in 
conjunction with each other.
The policy terms and conditions also say to refer to the policy schedule for individual 
limits and covers selected:
Check your policy schedule to ensure you have the right cover. This will 
show the level you have chosen and covers selected along with the 
associated limits, excesses and any special conditions that may also apply.
And also outlines:
Protecting the things you love
Your policy includes cover for your high risk items in your home. These tend 
to be easy to steal or damage, are usually expensive to replace, and include 
computers, televisions, jewellery, watches, clocks and works of art.
You need to be sure that you have enough cover for all your high risk items 
should you have to make a claim, so check the limits in your policy schedule 
and give us a call if you need to make changes.
So, the full terms highlight that the schedule needs to be checked by Miss L and 
Miss M to confirm individual cover limits. Watches are also listed in the terms as 
being considered a high risk item. They also outline:
Specified items cover
This section applies if you have items specified on your policy  these 
specified items, and where they are covered, are shown in your policy 
schedule.
Within Miss L and Miss Ms policy schedule, there are then individual limits outlined 
applicable to each section of cover chosen (Ive only included the relevant sections 
below):Your requirements You selected the following levels 
of cover:
Cover Status Limit (inner limits 
apply)
You want to protect the contents 
of your private residencePrivate 
residence coverIncluded £100,000
You want to protect your high risk 
items that are individually worth 
no more than £3,000 in your 
home.Private 
residence coverIncluded £30,000
You want to protect personal 
belongings away from the home 
that are individually worth no 
more than £3,000Personal 
belonging away 
from the home 
coverIncluded £7,500
You want to protect your personal 
belongings and high risk items 
that individually would cost over 
£3,000 to replace.Specified items 
coverIncluded £10,747 Includes cover 
temporarily outside your 
home, where stated in 
your policy schedule.
The schedule then goes on to say:
Private residence cover Limit £100,000 except 
for:Excess £350 
except for:
High risk items (individually worth no 
more than £3,000)£30,000 £350
And:
Personal belonging away from the home cover Limit Excess
Personal belonging (individually worth no more than 
£3,000)£7,500 except for: £350
And then shows the watch and the limit:
Specified items cover Limit Excess
(Watch being claimed for) covered while in your 
home and temporarily away from your home£6,456 £350
(Unrelated specified item) Value £350
So, I think the policy schedule and documents are clear that each section of cover 
has applicable limits, and of importance here, the limit for the watch was £6,456, 
regardless if the value new has increased.
The policy schedule also says that any items over £3,000 need to be specified 
individually, and against the watch specified, the limit for that item is shown. So I 
think its clear, from all the documents, that it isnt the case that any contents item is 
settled at the cost new regardless of its value as Miss L and Miss M argue, as there 
are individual limits, clearly outlined on the policy schedule.In addition, the IPID also explains:
What is insured?
Contents Optional Covers:

Specified items  covers named high risk items and personal 
belongings.
And also outlines:
Are there any restrictions on cover?
All applicable excess amounts are shown on your policy 
schedule.
Limits apply to your cover including those listed below. Please 
see your policy booklet and schedule for full details.
.
Total high risk items limit  as chosen by you and shown on 
your policy schedule. High risk items include computers, 
mobile phones, televisions, and jewellery
Single item limit for high risk items and personal belongings  
up to £3,000.
So I think the policy documents, including the IPID, Schedule and full policy terms 
are clear in showing there are different cover limits which apply, including the limit for 
the individually specified watch, and I dont agree with Miss L and Miss M that the 
policy terms are unclear or misleading.
Lloyds has paid the full limit the watch was specified for. And as that was the limit 
clearly outlined for the watch, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by not paying more 
than that amount even though the value of the item might have increased since then.
Miss L and Miss M also say the policy isnt fair in restricting to the limit outlined and 
not taking into account any increases, and they say it wouldnt be practical for them 
to need to contact Lloyds each time a value had increased. However, whilst I note 
what Miss L and Miss M say, it is their responsibility to ensure they have appropriate 
cover in place, and that includes the limits applicable under all the various policy 
sections. The policy terms, as I have referenced above, also direct Miss L and 
Miss M to check the cover and limits are suitable for their needs.
Whilst I do appreciate Miss L and Miss M were victims of a violent and distressing 
theft, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not minded to conclude Lloyds has acted unfairly by restricting the claim 
settlement for the watch to the specified item limit.
So, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint as I thought Lloyds had acted fairly.The responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds responded to the provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add.
Miss L and Miss M responded to the provisional decision, but they didnt agree. They 
maintain that they think the policy terms are unclear and that even with reference to limits in 
the other documents, there isnt anything within the terms which explains which term will 
take precedence over another.
Miss L and Miss M said that if the term which Lloyds mistakenly referred to was actually in 
their terms that would be clearer. But it isnt in the terms, so they maintain they are unclear. 
Miss L and Miss M also say that the policy terms dont include reference to valuables in the 
important changes they need to tell Lloyds about section. 
In addition, Miss L and Miss M say the policy terms are fragmented, and they say they cant 
be expected to piece together important information across the various documents theyve 
been given, so they dont think the terms sufficiently explain that the claim wouldnt be 
settled in line with the specific term theyve referenced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional conclusions and decision I reached, and the 
responses. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
As outlined in my provisional decision, much of the argument presented by Miss L and 
Miss M centres on a single specific term, which is in their full policy terms and conditions. 
They say reading this term doesnt provide clarity that there would be other limits under their 
policy.
However, as I also said in my provisional decision, Miss L and Miss Ms argument is based 
on reading that term in isolation. And not considering all the other documents which say 
otherwise, including earlier, in several places, in those same terms and conditions.
The term they refer to is in the general terms and conditions of the policy, which is generic 
and applies to any policyholder with the same policy with Lloyds. But there was reference to 
checking the schedule for the limits in multiple places throughout, including before the term 
Miss L and Miss M are focussing on in isolation. 
I also explained in my provisional decision where there were multiple other points across all 
the policy documents which said the schedule needed to be checked. This includes the 
much shorter IPID, which provides a summary of policy cover and limits applicable. 
The policy terms and IPID are relatively generic in nature as they are for any policyholder 
with that same policy. Whereas the policy schedule, which is where Miss L and Miss M were 
directed a number of times, is the document which contains all their personal details, details 
of their property and the cover they purchased including the specified watch  along with 
clearly outlining the associated limits. I dont intend to revisit each document individually, as I commented on these in detail in my 
provisional decision. But, my thoughts on this remain the same, that the documents provided 
to Miss L and Miss M were clear in explaining the applicable policy limits they had, and 
where these could be found. And as Lloyds has settled the claim in line with this, I dont think 
theyve acted unreasonably.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman