DRN-4202003
The complaint
Mrs N complains about delays and poor service by Aviva Insurance Limited when dealing 
with a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N made a claim on her policy after her car was damaged in an accident in November 
2022. The policy was in her name, with her husband as a named driver. Aviva arranged for 
the car to be repaired but when it was returned to her in December, Mrs N complained that 
the repairs had not been done well. She said the car was returned in poor condition. 
An independent inspection of the car confirmed there were issues that needed to be put 
right. Mrs N wasnt happy for the car to be returned to the repairer instructed by Aviva and 
arranged for another garage to carry out the further work needed. 
Aviva agreed to this being done but Mrs N then complained about further delays making the 
arrangements. In its response to the complaint, issued in March 2023, Aviva accepted there 
had been some delays and its repairers had not completed the work appropriately. Aviva 
confirmed it had authorised the further repairs and offered compensation of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs N, but she didnt accept this offer.
When Mrs N referred her complaint to this service, our investigator thought the amount 
offered by Aviva wasnt enough. She asked it to increase the compensation to £400.
Mrs N wasnt happy with this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She says £400 
doesnt adequately reflect the amount of distress caused to her or the amount of trouble she 
was put to in getting things sorted out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Where repairs need to be done, Id expect the 
repairs to be lasting and effective.
Aviva accepted that the initial repairs were not adequate and agreed to further work being 
done. So thats not in dispute; the issue is how long it took to deal with this, and the trouble 
Mrs N was put to as a result.
Aviva didnt sent the instruction for an independent engineer to inspect the car until 13 
January 2023. This delay was frustrating for Mrs N. Aviva initially offered to repair the car at 
its approved repairer, but Mrs N wanted the work done by her own repairer. I can understand 
why she would want that, given the problems with the repairs that had been done. Aviva 
agreed to this and offered to pay for the repairs. But the repairs were not arranged until 
March 2023. In the meantime Mrs N was left with a car that wasnt in good condition and had 
incorrect VIN plates. She was worried about using the car as she was afraid it would be 
illegal. 
Mrs N also says she had to keep chasing Aviva to get things done. When someone makes a 
complaint its inevitable they will have to engage in some correspondence or phone calls. 
But Mrs N had to do more than she should have to chase Aviva for replies.
Taking into account the amount of distress caused and the delay between December 2022 
and March 2023, I agree compensation of £400 is a fair reflection of the impact on Mrs N.  I 
appreciate she has requested a higher amount. The figures she has suggested would be 
appropriate where the incident has had a severe and lasting impact over a long period. I 
dont think thats the case here. She has referred to other effects, including on her husbands 
health. While the poor claims handling by Aviva may have made things worse, much of the 
impact relates to the consequences of the accident itself. 
Mrs N has also referred to further delays getting the repairs done after Aviva sent its 
response to this complaint. I can only consider events up to March 2023 in this complaint. If 
Mrs N has concerns about what happened after that she would need to put those to Aviva 
first and, if shes unhappy with the response, we could potentially consider a fresh complaint 
about that.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay compensation of £400 to 
Mrs N.
Aviva Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs N accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman