DRN-2562593
The complaint
Miss B says Gain Credit LLC  trading as Lending Stream  irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Lending Stream provided to Miss B between 
April and August 2019. Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
1 11/04/2019 27/07/2019  £200.00 £51.12
2 18/07/2019 Outstanding  £250.00 £142.17
3 03/08/2019 Outstanding  £200.00 £157.00
4 10/08/2019 Outstanding  £100.00 £188.46
In its final response, Lending Stream upheld Miss Bs complaint about loan 4. 
Our adjudicator endorsed Lending Streams offer and explained that they didnt think 
Lending Stream was wrong to lend the other loans to Miss B. 
Miss B disagreed and said that her financial difficulties were evident from her credit file. As 
the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a final decision. I 
issued my provisional decision in January 2021, and I explained that I generally agreed with 
the outcome our adjudicator had reached about loans 1 and 2. 
But I thought it could be argued that a pattern was being to emerge at loan 3 that might 
suggest Miss B was struggling to repay her loans sustainably but looking at the copies of the 
bank statements Miss B had provided there wasnt anything in there that ought to have 
caused Lending Stream cause for concern. But I said I would consider anything further either 
party wanted to add before I issued my final decision. 
Heres what I said:
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both Lending Stream and our adjudicator have upheld Miss Bs complaint about loan 4. Miss B hasnt 
given me anything else to consider about this loan, so I wont be making any further findings on it. 
Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators view about loans 1 to 3 because she thought Lending 
Streams checks didnt go far enough and it should have been aware that she was struggling 
financially. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Lending Stream has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss B about her employment status and she confirmed she was 
employed and had a monthly income of around £1,470. Lending Stream also checked Miss Bs 
normal monthly living costs. Miss B declared these to be around £1,000 a month. Lending Stream 
says it also searched Miss Bs credit file and it has provided the results of its search. There werent 
any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements (CCJs) recorded on it at the time 
the loans were taken out. So there didnt look like there was anything that ought to have caused 
Lending Stream any concern. 
Miss B borrowed all three loans within less than a month. So, she was very early on in her lending 
relationship with Lending Stream. Even though she had to make monthly repayments, the highest 
repayment would have appeared affordable based on the information she declared to Lending 
Stream. And there wasnt anything in the information Miss B provided at the time which would have 
given Lending Stream cause for concern, so I think it was reasonable of Lending Stream to have 
relied on what Miss B gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for Lending 
Stream to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Lending Stream did before lending the loans went 
far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth checks. 
The information Miss B declared to Lending Stream at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Lending Stream was entitled to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what Lending Stream knew about Miss 
B, I wouldnt have expected Lending Stream to verify the information Miss B gave it. 
However, looking at loan 3 in isolation, it could be argued that a pattern was beginning to emerge 
which might suggest Miss B was struggling to repay her loans sustainably. Miss B returned to borrow 
again whilst her previous loan was still active. And she was asking to borrow a similar amount. For 
loan 3, she returned again about two weeks after shed borrowed loan 2. 
So, based on this behaviour I think Lending Stream should have been looking to build a clearer 
picture than it did about Miss Bs finances before lending her this loan. Asking to see things such as 
her bank statements, or for copies of her payslips and/or bills. 
I asked Miss B to provide copies of her bank statements for the three months prior to loan 3, so I 
could see what Lending Stream would have seen had it done proportionate checks. But Miss B has 
only provided one months worth of statements for May 2019  which was three months before loan 3 
was lent. Looking at the information contained in this statement, I dont think there was anything on 
the statement  that had Lending Stream seen the same  would have caused any concern. For 
example, the account is in credit, there arent any payments to or from other short-term lenders and 
there arent any other transactions which might indicate Miss B wasnt managing her finances. 
So, without any further information, I can only conclude that while Lending Streams checks didnt go 
far enough, I cant say an error has been made as I dont know whether it would have thought the 
loan was affordable for Miss B. Therefore, I cant say Lending Stream was wrong to have provided 
Miss B with loan 3. 
Lending Streams offer around loan 4 is still available should Miss B wish to now accept it. 
Lending Stream replied to confirm it had received the provisional decision but had nothing 
further to add. 
Miss B replied and whilst she said she understood about loan 1 as it was her first loan she 
didnt agree that Lending Stream had done a sufficient enough credit check before lending 
loans 2 and 3 to her and had it done so it would have seen she had an active CCJ as well as 
being part of a debt management plan. Miss B also provided a copy of her bank statement 
for the month she took out loan 3, as well as details about a debt management plan she 
entered into in 2018. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
As explained in my provisional decision, Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to 
ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out 
proportionate checks to make sure Miss B could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered again all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Having done this, Im still not 
upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I thought the checks Lending Stream had done 
prior to lending loan 2 were the appropriative level for the stage of the lending relationship 
Miss B was at. There wasnt anything in the information it had gathered that out to have 
given Lending Stream cause for concern. 
Ive noted Miss Bs comments about her not agreeing that Lending Stream had done a full 
credit check. I think it would be useful if I explain, Lending Stream didnt have to do a full or 
any type of credit check. It just had to do checks which were proportionate for the length of 
time Miss B had been borrowing from it. The review of Miss Bs credit report Lending Stream 
did do looked for certain information and the results it got back didnt contain anything 
concerning. So, I dont agree that Lending Stream needed to do any more than it has within 
relation to the credit check it did. 
Overall, Miss Bs points dont change my decision, I still think the checks Lending Stream did 
before lending loan 2 went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to 
undertake any more in-depth checks. 
For loan 3, Ive reviewed the additional bank statement Miss B has provided. This statement 
covers the month that loans 3 and 4 were taken out in. However, it wouldnt have been the 
one available had Lending Stream asked to see Miss Bs statements as it wouldnt have available at the time she took out the loans. So, I still dont know what it would have seen 
had the statements been provided. 
In fairness to Miss B, I have reviewed the statement  but like what I said in my provisional 
decision  the information on the statement wouldnt have caused any concern for Lending 
Stream. Miss B has also provided a lot of detail about her financial situation at the time, but 
from the information I have seen on her bank statements, her financial difficulties werent 
evident. 
Based on what I have seen, I am still of the opinion that while Lending Streams checks for 
loan 3 might not have gone far enough, I cant say an error has been made as I dont know 
whether it would have thought the loan was affordable for Miss B. Therefore, I still cant say 
Lending Stream was wrong to have provided Miss B with loan 3. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, Miss Bs complaint about loan 4 has been upheld 
and the redress for that loan is still available for her. 
I appreciate this outcome will be disappointing for Miss B, and Im sorry to hear about the 
financial difficulties she had been having. I want to reassure her I have considered 
everything shes told and sent to us and I know this isnt the outcome she had hoped for. But 
I hope my explanation helps to understand how Ive reached it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint about loans 1 to 3 so Lending Stream doesnt need to do 
anymore than it already has with regards to redress. But I remind Lending Stream of its duty 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman