DRN-3065476
The complaint
  Mr M complained that HSBC UK Bank PLC 
- said he owed the bank money when he didnt. He said hed cleared his balance and 
then the card was stolen  and he hadnt made the later transactions;
- passed him from person to person and fobbed him off.
What happened
  In December 2020, Mr M complained to this service. He said that a long time ago, hed 
cleared his HSBC account, but his debit card had then been stolen, and HSBC was asking 
him to pay the balance. He said HSBC had passed him from person to person and fobbed 
him off.
This service contacted HSBC, which said the only record it had of Mr M disputing any 
transactions had been in 2011. That had been about a cash machine issue, and it had 
refunded him with £600. HSBC also said that if the complaint was about Mr Ms credit card, 
that was dormant so it had been closed, and if he wanted another credit card hed have to 
apply again.
This service has rules about what it can and cant consider. One of those is about 
timescales, and we cant generally look at complaints about events more than six years 
earlier. Our investigator explained this to Mr M, saying we wouldnt be able to look at what 
had happened in 2011. Mr M said he was disputing transactions in 2019 and 1920, which he 
said werent his. So this service obtained information from HSBC about this period.
Mr Ms statements showed that he paid off the debit balance on his current account on 28 
December 2019. So the balance was then zero. But the account had started to be used 
again on 19 February 2020. There were lots of small payments, and Mr M also paid money 
into the account. This continued over several months until the debit balance was £1,043.47 
by 29 April. The account then hadnt been used again for a few months, until it was used 
several times in October 2020, increasing the balance to £1,104.47.
In June 2020, Mr M had phoned HSBC and raised a complaint. He claimed that hed phoned 
in April, to get a new debit card, and because he wanted transactions reimbursed. 
HSBC issued a final response letter which said that:
- it had no record of Mr M having phoned in April, or of him asking for a new debit card. 
It said it could investigate further if Mr M provided more specific dates;
- it did have notes about reactivating Mr Ms credit card in December 2019 and 
January 2020. HSBC recognised Mr M had had trouble getting through to the right 
department. It said that as it had closed the credit card, Mr M would need to reapply 
and go through credit scoring if he wanted a credit card;
- it offered Mr M £50 compensation to say sorry for the distress and inconvenience. 
And after Mr M got in touch with this service, HSBC offered Mr M an extra £100 
compensation for the service, making £150 in all.
The investigators view was that HSBCs offer of £150 for the way HSBC had handled Mr 
Ms complaint was fair. And he said that HSBC had been entitled to close Mr Ms credit card, 
and if Mr M wanted to, he could reapply, subject to normal criteria. 
But the investigator didnt agree that HSBC should refund Mr M for the balance on his 
current account. He said that Mr M had indeed reduced the balance to zero in December 
2019, but hed then started spending again. There was no evidence to show that this money 
had been spent by a fraudster  and the spend included card and PIN transactions over 
several months, at places Mr M had used before. And Mr M hadnt reported the card stolen 
until June 2020.
Mr M didnt agree. He initially said hed accept the extra £100 if HSBC paid it the same day. 
The investigator explained how the banking system worked, and that this couldnt be 
guaranteed. Mr M then said he wouldnt accept the extra £100 and it was an insult. He said 
HSBC knew the card had been stolen and he hadnt carried out the disputed transactions.
Mr M then wrote again, and said hed carried out the transactions abroad up to March 2020. 
But he said he hadnt carried out the transactions in a UK location after that, when he came 
back from holiday. Mr M said £100 compensation was ludicrous and asked for an 
ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Ms complaint has changed over time, so Ill set out what Im considering in this decision.
Transactions Mr M said he didnt make
The main part of Mr Ms complaint relates to transactions which he said he didnt make. Most 
recently, in September 2021, Mr M said these are the transactions in the UK which debited 
his account from mid-March 2020, after he came back from holiday abroad.
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant ones for disputed 
transactions taking place from March 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
Broadly speaking, a customer is liable if they authorised the payments, and the bank if the 
customer didnt authorise them.
The disputed transactions are mostly for under £50, either in cash or at a supermarket. 
There are also several credits to the account during this time, which were paid in by Mr M. 
The disputed transactions would have needed Mr Ms genuine card, and his correct four digit 
PIN. There are 10,000 combinations of a four-digit number, so its unlikely anyone who had 
stolen Mr Ms card would be able to guess it. And it would be really unusual for a fraudster to 
take out small amounts, such as the £10 or £20 withdrawals on Mr Ms account, over a 
period of over a month. Fraudsters take out the maximum straightaway, to get the most 
money they can before the account holder reports the fraud and the card is stopped.
And the places where most of the disputed transactions took place were ones which Mr M 
had previously used for transactions which werent disputed.I can also see that Mr M paid money into the account some five times during the time after 
he returned from holiday abroad in mid-March 2020. But hes said he didnt have the card at 
that point, because it had been stolen.
The first record HSBC has of Mr M complaining is June 2020. Mr M said he complained in 
April 2020. But even if it were April, thats still a month after Mr M said it was stolen. And Ive 
also borne in mind that Mr M hasnt given a consistent version of which transactions were 
fraudulent  at first saying it was everything after he paid off his card in December 2019.
Taking these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr M carried out 
the disputed transactions himself. So I dont require HSBC to refund Mr M. 
Credit card and customer service
Mr Ms credit card was closed by HSBC after it became dormant. Banks can decide to stop 
providing services to customers  just as customers can decide to close an account with a 
bank. I consider its reasonable that HSBC has said that if Mr M wants a credit card, he can 
reapply subject to normal criteria. 
The compensation which HSBC offered Mr M relates to the customer service during his 
attempts to reactivate the credit card in late 2019 and early 2020. It doesnt relate to what Mr 
M has said about the debit card being stolen or any fraudulent transactions  because HSBC 
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint about that. And as Ive set out above, I dont consider HSBC 
acted wrongly in refusing to refund Mr M for transactions he said he didnt make. 
So Ive considered whether HSBCs offer of a total of £150 compensation for customer 
service is reasonable. I find that its more than fair. So I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint for 
more compensation 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint for a refund of the disputed 
transactions. But HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered a further £100 compensation in addition to 
the £50.00 already paid. I endorse that as a fair and reasonable conclusion to Mr Ms case, 
and so HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman