DRN-3101876
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited misadvised him about 
whether or not his motor insurance policy covered a windscreen claim.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents which administer the policy on its behalf.
What happened
Mr M had two cars with separate policies for each. One policy provided fully comprehensive 
cover, the second policy provided third party fire and theft cover. Mr M rang Advantage and 
asked it if his second policy provided cover for windscreen claims. The call hander told him 
that it did and that carried an £85 excess.
Mr M rang Advantage back around four days later. He asked again about whether or not his 
second policy provided windscreen cover. The call hander told him that it didn't and that it 
wasn't something he could add to a third party fire and theft policy. The call handler also told 
Mr M he wouldn't be able to claim for something which had happened before he had the 
appropriate cover in place. Mr M said he didn't need to make a claim at that time but asked 
what his options were to add the windscreen cover. The call hander repeated that Mr M 
couldn't add windscreen cover to his existing policy but told him he could replace his policy 
with comprehensive cover which would include windscreen claims. The call hander gave 
Mr M advice for how to go about that, including giving Mr M the number of the sales team to 
discuss his options for a multi-car policy.
Mr M later contacted Advantage again, he wanted it to cover a windscreen claim. It told him 
that his policy didn't cover windscreen claims. But it acknowledged that one of its call 
handers had given him poor advice initially and paid him £100 compensation for the impact 
of that.
Mr M didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it. She, didn't initially have access to the second call recording referred to above. 
But, after she received that recording, she thought Advantage had done enough to put things 
right. 
Following her assessment of the complaint Mr M told our investigator that, while hed told 
Advantage he didn't need to make a claim, the damage to his windscreen had already 
happened when he made the second call. But as Advantage told him in that call that a claim 
for any existing damage wouldn't be covered he hadn't mentioned it. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint; so its been passed to me to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to instruct Advantage to take any further action.
Mr M bought his policy online and he chose third party fire and theft cover. That policy 
doesn't insure him for any damage of any nature to his own car, it only covers his liability to 
other road users and third parties. The policy documents make the level of cover clear. So, 
the policy Mr M chose didn't cover windscreen claims.
Mr M rang Advantage to ask if he had windscreen cover. Advantage told him that he did. 
This was clearly a very careless and inaccurate piece of advice, as his policy is plain that it 
doesn't provide windscreen cover. So it's not clear how Advantage's call hander could get 
this so wrong. But she did. 
Mr M told us that if Advantage had given him the correct advice during that call he would 
have cancelled his policy and bought comprehensive cover. But, when he rang Advantage 
again, only four days later, that call hander did correctly tell him that he didn't have 
windscreen cover and gave him the appropriate options for changing his policy to 
comprehensive cover. But Mr M didn't do that at that time. So I don't think its reasonable to 
conclude that if the call hander had given him the correct information during the first call he 
would have cancelled the policy at that's stage, when he chose not to do that only four days 
later.
Further, during the second call, Mr M clearly said that he didn't need to make a windscreen 
claim. But he's since told us that his cars windscreen was already damaged by the time he 
made that call. If thats the case then he didn't tell Advantage the truth during the second 
call. So it's not clear exactly when Mr Ms windscreen was damaged and it's possible that the 
windscreen damage had happened before his first call. However, whenever it happened it 
was clearly at a time when he only had third party cover. And that cover wouldn't include any 
claim for windscreen damage. So I think it was reasonable for Advantage to say to Mr M that 
his policy wouldn't cover any claim for windscreen damage. 
It certainly isnt acceptable that Advantage gave Mr M such poor advice during the first call. 
But it cleared that matter up during the next call only days later. And it acknowledged its 
poor advice and paid Mr M £100 compensation as a result. I note Mr M told us that he didn't 
want the compensation, but I think it was a reasonable attempt by Advantage to put things 
right. So I'm not going to instruct it to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman