DRN-2255349
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt process a chargeback request in respect of 
payments hed made to a casino over a number of months.
What happened
Mr C has explained that between January and August 2019 he used his Monzo debit card on 
23 occasions to make payments to a casino. In total he made payments of CHF190,005 
(nearly £150,000) in that period. He also made payments by other means in the same period 
and says he paid CHF5,050,000 in 2019.
Mr C has also explained that in August 2019 he carried out an audit of his transactions at the
casino. That involved reconciling cash payments hed made, chips hed received, cash taken
from his security deposit box at the casino, winnings and, of course, card payments. He
identified a shortfall of CHF190,000. He concluded that he hadnt been credited in
chips for the payments hed made using his Monzo card.
Mr C complained to the casino, but it didnt accept that it had done anything wrong. He
complained to Monzo Bank that he hadnt received the goods hed paid for  that is, the 
casino chips. He thought that Monzo Bank should seek a refund from the casino through the 
chargeback scheme.
Monzo Bank declined to file a chargeback, as it didnt believe it would be successful. Mr C 
referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
concluded however that the casino had credited Mr Cs account with the payments made 
using the card and agreed that Monzo Bank was under no obligation to submit a chargeback 
request.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the
case.
My provisional decision
Having reviewed the case, I issued a provisional decision. Although I was broadly in 
agreement with the investigators conclusions, my reasons for reaching them were a little 
different in some respects. I set out below the text of my reasoning:
Chargeback is a means by which customers can challenge certain card payments. Its run
through the card schemes  which in this case means Mastercard. Whilst theres no
obligation on a card issuer to submit a chargeback request, this service generally takes the
view that its good practice to do so where theres a reasonable prospect of success. Ive
considered Mr Cs complaint against that background and principles.
One of the reasons for which a chargeback claim can be made is that goods or services
werent supplied. Mr C suggested that this would apply here, because he hadnt received the
goods hed paid for  namely, chips which he could then use at the casino. Chargeback isnt
however generally available for this reason where a transaction is made face-to-face; a
customer in such circumstances would of course usually know immediately whether or not
theyd received the goods they were paying for.
When asked why he didnt realise at the point of payment that he hadnt received the chips
hed paid for, Mr C explained that, when he bought chips from the casino, he had always
received the correct amount. However, he routinely paid in cash that hed taken from a
security deposit box held by the casino. On a number of occasions, hed been told that the
cash hed provided was less than he believed it was. He therefore made extra payments
using his Monzo card, rather than waiting for the cash to be re-counted. When, in August
2019, he tried to reconcile the various payments hed made with the cash and chips he held,
he realised that he had in fact paid the correct money in cash for the chips hed received.
Mr C says therefore that he either made a series of duplicate payments or that, having
already paid for chips using cash, he hadnt received anything in return for the card
payments. Both of those are valid chargeback reasons.
I cannot of course know whether Mr Cs cash payments were for the amounts he says they
were or, as the casino claims, for less than those amounts. However, even if I accept what
he says about them, I dont believe that means Monzo Bank should have sought to recover
the card payments through the chargeback scheme. In my view, the chances of recovery
were very slim indeed. In saying that, I note as well that the casino had already rejected Mr
Cs claims about what had happened; it would have defended a chargeback request.
As Ive explained, chargeback isnt generally available where the reason given is that goods
werent received but the customer was present. If Mr C says he should have received
additional chips for his card payments, its likely the fact that he was present and authorised
the payments would lead to the claim being declined.
Mr Cs alternative ground for seeking a chargeback is that the payments were duplicated.
That can be a reason for chargeback, but only where the card payment is duplicated; it
doesnt apply where a customer claims to have paid using cash as well as a card.
I note as well that most of the payments were made more than 120 days before Mr C raised
any issue with them. Although longer time limits in some circumstances (for example, where
a payment is made for goods or services to be provided in the future), nearly all the
payments were outside the relevant chargeback time limits.
When he was asked how he could be sure that any chips he hadnt received were chips paid
for with his Monzo Bank card, Mr C referred to the scenario Ive described above  that the
casino disputed how much cash hed paid, and that he therefore used his card to make an 
extra payment. I dont believe however that is sufficient for me to conclude that he made
card payments and received nothing in return. Any overpayment was equally referable to the
cash element of the transaction as it was to the card element.
For these reasons, I believe that Monzo Bank was entitled to take the view that a
chargeback request was most unlikely to succeed and was within its rights therefore to
decline to pursue one.
Mr Cs response to my provisional decision  
Mr C didnt accept my provisional conclusions and made a number of observations on my 
findings. As a general point, he thought that my use of approximate figures gave the 
impression of uncertainty on his part. That wasnt my intention, but the precise figures arent 
crucial to my overall findings here. I have nevertheless set out Mr Cs figures in the 
background above. Ill address his further points in my findings below.
What Ive decided  and why Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said that the statement that the casino didnt accept it had done anything wrong was 
factually incorrect and referred to an email (originally in German) in which the casino had 
had said that it wouldnt be responding to his allegations or claims. The casino had, he said, 
neither confirmed nor denied any wrongdoing. I accept that the email to which Mr C referred 
didnt expressly refute his claims, although I think the implication was that it didnt believe 
there was any substance to them. In any event, the important point is that the casino didnt 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C commented that I could not be certain that the casino would have defended a 
chargeback request. Thats correct of course, but, given its response to his claims, I think its 
likely to have done so. The likelihood of a chargeback request being defended is something 
that a card issuer can take into account in deciding whether or not to submit a request  
especially if that defence is likely to be successful. As I indicated in my provisional decision, 
this service takes the view that a card issuer generally should make a request where there 
are reasonable prospects of success; the corollary though is that we wouldnt expect it to do 
so where a refund is unlikely to result. 
Mr C pointed out, correctly, that there can be a valid chargeback where duplicate payments 
are processed by other means  that is, where the duplicate payment is made other than by 
the card. The card scheme  in this case Mastercard  would however generally require 
proof of the duplicate payment, for example in the form of a receipt for cash. Further, the 
payments in this case werent duplicated, in the sense that the cash payments and card 
payments were for different amounts. I think it unlikely that a chargeback for this reason 
would have been successful. 
Mr C also argues that the relevant time limits here are those that relate to ongoing services. 
The transactions were, he says, made for the same purpose each time and as part of a 
continuing service. Im afraid though I dont agree with Mr C on this point. The payments 
were not made as, for example, a subscription or membership fee. Rather, they were a 
series of individual payments of differing amounts made for the same reason over a number 
of months. Even on Mr Cs own case, he knew at the time of the payments that he wasnt in 
agreement with the casino about the circumstances in which they were made. 
Monzo Bank did initially indicate that it would raise a dispute with the casino, through 
Mastercard, but then declined to do so. It also suggested that a 540-day limit might apply, 
although it didnt guarantee that the chargeback process would result in a successful 
outcome for Mr C. It later decided not to process a chargeback request. I can see why Mr C 
feels it shouldnt have reached that decision, having said earlier that it would process the 
request. The key issue I have to consider however is whether in all the circumstances 
Monzo Bank should have processed the request, having regard to the likelihood of success. 
In my view, there were a number of reasons why a chargeback request here was unlikely to 
have been successful. Its possible that, had Monzo Bank submitted a request, a refund 
would have resulted. I dont however accept that the slim possibility of that happening was 
sufficient reason for me to say Monzo Bank should have filed a request. It was entitled to 
take the view that a request would not have succeeded and to decline to file one for that 
reason.  
I note finally that Mr C says that an official response from the casino to a chargeback request 
would have been useful to him, even if he had not received a refund. That isnt in my view a 
good reason for a card issuer to submit a chargeback request.       My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Monzo Bank Ltd to do anything 
further to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman