DRN-2271695
The complaint
Mrs B, through her representative, complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services 
Limited (LV) gave her unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan. She says if shed been suitably advised about alternatives, she 
wouldve made additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) through her occupational pension 
scheme and shes suffered a financial loss. 
What happened
In 1997 Mrs B took out a FSAVC on the advice of T. Ts obligations have since been taken 
over by LV so for simplicity I will refer to LV from now on, even where it refers to actions 
of T. The Personal Financial Summary completed at the time showed that Mrs B:
Was 34 years old
Was married with two children
Worked full time as a teacher
Had a salary of £14,500
Had been a member of her occupational pension scheme for one year
Aspired to retire at 55.
Mrs B contributed £50 a month to the FSAVC until 1999 when she stopped contributions due 
to her hours being reduced at work. 
In 2019 Mrs B complained, through a representative, that shed been given unsuitable 
advice to take out an FSAVC. In its response LV said that its representative followed the 
guidelines that required him to inform Mrs B of alternative AVC options in her occupational 
pension scheme. It said Mrs B had made her own enquiries about those options and had 
made an informed decision to take out the FSAVC. 
Mrs B, through a representative, brought her complaint to us. Her representative said that 
there wasnt any real evidence that LV had discussed the more favourable AVC option in a 
clear way she wouldve understood. The reasons documented for Mrs B choosing the 
FSAVC rather than the in-house alternative were generic and irrelevant  her representative 
said that it wouldve been normal expected practice for LV to give one positive reason for 
choosing the FSAVC rather than the in-house money purchase AVC that likely wouldve had 
lower charges. And her representative thought that in 1997 a personalised cost comparison 
of the options was required. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the LV had 
satisfied the relevant guidance. She also didnt think a cost comparison was required. She 
understood Mrs Bs representatives assertions that the reasons given for taking out an 
FSAVC were generic. But she thought it was clear that Mrs B wanted to maximise her 
pension arrangements, and a need was established. 
Our investigator concluded that the recommendation was suitable, and that Mrs B had been 
made sufficiently aware of other alternatives.
Mrs Bs representative didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. The 
representative still thought a cost comparison was required, and that it was highly likely that 
Mrs B wouldve purchased the in house AVC through Provider P if the LV representative had 
explained that it was better value for money.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2020. My provisional findings were as 
follows:
In order to decide the complaint, I need to consider whether the LV representative complied 
with the applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. If he didnt, I need 
to further consider what difference did that make. In particular, would Mrs B have contributed 
to an AVC through her employment?
The advice was provided by a LV representative over two meetings in August and October 
1997. So, the relevant regulatory guidance was contained in Regulatory Update 20 (RU 
20), which was produced by the Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors to 
the current regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. RU 20 gave guidance on the 
procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs and in-scheme AVCs 
relating to occupational pension schemes. The guidance set out different requirements 
depending on whether the adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  
one who is employed by, or contracted to, one organisation and can only recommend and 
sell that organisations products. In this case the adviser was tied. 
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that: 
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has:
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative;
- discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account,
among other things, of the features described in this article); and
- directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information 
on the in-scheme option.
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his 
companys FSAVC.
I wouldve expected the LV representative to make Mrs B aware of the in house AVC and 
added years options (it appears from the Financial Summary that he made Mrs B aware of 
both) and to discuss the generic features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key 
difference I wouldve expected the LV representative to discuss with Mrs B would be the 
likelihood of lower charges for the in house AVC. I would also expect Mrs B to have been 
directed to her employer and/or occupational pension scheme trustee to obtain more 
information on her in-house options.
I cant be sure what was discussed at the meetings in August and October 1997. So, I must 
rely on the documents prepared at the time. Ive looked very carefully at the Personal 
Financial Summary prepared in August and October 1997 by the LV representative. At page 
12 it indicates that Mrs B:
wishes to enhance retirement income this I have explained can be done
by:
- Purchase of past years in the (occupational pension) Scheme
-  Purchase of in-house AVC through (Provider P)
She has shown me evidence of her considering these options, past years being 
expensive. She also has a personal aversion to (Provider P).
Mrs B signed the Personal Financial Summary to say that it correctly represented the 
information given by her and the advice given by the representative. And I note that there was a six-week period between her first and second meeting with the representative, so she 
was given time to investigate and consider her other options. 
I dont know what the evidence was that Mrs B showed the representative which indicated 
shed considered her in-house options. The only note in relation to the AVC is that she had a 
dislike of Provider P. There is nothing in the Personal Financial Summary to show that the 
LV representative discussed the likelihood of lower charges for the in house AVC with Mrs B 
 a critical factor. RU 20 indicates that it the usually lower charges that is likely to exert the 
greatest impact on which option would offer the greater benefit to the customer. And RU 20 
indicates that advisers should keep documentary evidence to show that the procedures in 
the update have been followed. So while I dont think that a personalised comparison of fees 
was required, I wouldve expected to see documentary evidence that the likely lower fees for 
an in-house AVC were discussed. Taking all of this into account, Im not persuaded that the 
LV representative complied with RU 20.  
I need to consider what difference the failure to comply fully with RU 20 makes. Mrs Bs 
representative says that it was highly likely that Mrs B wouldve purchased the in house AVC 
through Provider P if the LV representative had explained that it was better value for money. 
I cant be sure what wouldve occurred, and Ive already mentioned the note that Mrs B had 
a personal aversion to Provider P. But given the regulators view that a critical factor driving 
choice between FSAVCs and AVCs was the usually lower fees, I think it is more likely than 
not that Mrs B wouldve chosen to contribute to the AVC through Provider P if shed been 
properly advised. 
Im not persuaded that the ways in which FSAVCs differed from AVCs, such as portability, 
wouldve made a difference to her decision. I appreciate Mrs B appeared to be at the start of 
her career, as she had only one year of service in her occupational pension scheme. But 
there isnt anything else to suggest she was likely to change professions such that she 
wouldnt be able to contribute to the AVC in the future. And there isnt any reason to think 
that confidentiality was of particular importance to Mrs B, which was one of the positive 
elements of a FSAVC emphasised by the LV representative. 
I think compensation for Mrs B should be calculated in line with our general approach to 
complaints of this type.  LV should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, LV should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. Mrs B should confirm her tax rate to us as part of her response to 
this decision. 
My provisional decision was that Victoria Financial Services Limited should settle the 
complaint using the FCAs FSAVC guidance as Ive set out above.
LV accepted my provision decision and indicated it would carry out the redress calculation 
upon Mrs Bs acceptance. Mrs Bs representative indicated it was happy with the outcome of 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional decision. That being the case, I see no reason to 
change my provisional  findings or provisional decision. I adopt both  for the purposes of this 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Victoria Financial Services Limited should settle the complaint using 
the FCAs FSAVC guidance as Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman