DRN-3083136
The complaint
X complains that Yorkshire Building Society hasnt treated her fairly when she experienced a 
period of financial difficulty.
What happened
X had a mortgage with her now ex-husband with Yorkshire.
X was the victim of control, coercion and domestic and economic abuse. She is divorcing her 
husband  but she said he prolonged the divorce, increasing the costs and refused to pay 
towards the mortgage. X maintained the mortgage without any support from him until 2019 
when she lost her job. X asked Yorkshire for some help. But it only offered short term 
payment arrangements. And this has led to adverse information being recorded on her credit 
file. X said that Yorkshire hasnt recognised or adapted its approach in view of her 
vulnerability. The information it has recorded on her credit file will prevent her getting a new 
job.
X obtained a court order to sell her house. But Yorkshire continued to pursue her for the 
arrears on the mortgages. The mortgage was repaid in 2021.
The investigator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. X didnt accept what the 
investigator said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read everything that X has given us and listened to the phone calls she had with the 
investigator. Its clear that X has been through an extremely traumatic time and that has had 
a huge impact on her mental and physical health. I was sorry to hear what she had been 
through  and continues to go through because of the long-lasting impact of the abuse. That 
includes a significant impact on her finances as a result of what happened. But after very  
carefully considering all the evidence we have, I dont consider that Yorkshire has acted 
unfairly.
Did Yorkshire do enough to help X?
X had a joint mortgage with her ex-husband. When X took out the mortgage she agreed to 
be jointly and severally liable for the debt. That meant both her and her ex-husband are 
liable for the full amount of the debt, jointly and individually. It also restricted what Yorkshire 
could do to help X. It couldnt make changes to the mortgage that would potentially be to Xs 
ex-husbands disadvantage, so he would need to agree to any such changes
The relevant rules say that when a borrower is in mortgage arrears a lender should treat 
them fairly. It is good practice for a lender to gather information about a borrowers 
circumstances, income and expenditure. I know X felt that this was intrusive and 
unsympathetic, bearing in mind what Yorkshire knew about her. But I consider it was 
reasonable for Yorkshire to carry out the exercise here  including in January 2020. 
Although Xs financial situation had got worse, it was still reasonable for Yorkshire to want to 
understand Xs overall financial position.
Once it had that information Yorkshire should have considered a range of options including, 
extending the term of the mortgage, switching the mortgage to interest only, deferring 
interest and adding the arrears to the balance. The difficulty here is that all of those things 
would need Xs ex-husband to agree to them as they were potentially to his disadvantage.
There were two other things Yorkshire could offer  payment arrangements and (as the 
mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) on 31 January 2019) switching to a 
new interest rate product. I dont agree with Yorkshire that just because X was in arrears of 
more than £100 that it would mean that Yorkshire did not have to consider whether a new 
interest rate product could help her.
Yorkshire did accept reduced payments from X. So it agreed concessionary payment 
arrangements. It also changed the payment date to help X. Yorkshire has shown that the 
only interest rate products it offered at the time in question had an early repayment charge 
(ERC). It wouldnt be reasonable to set up a new product that had an ERC in these 
circumstances, where the property was likely to be sold, incurring a significant ERC. And 
again, Xs husband would need to agree to such a product switch as he would be jointly and 
severally liable for any ERC that was applied.
Vulnerability
Yorkshire was first made aware of Xs circumstances in May 2018. It placed a warning on its 
systems so that any member of staff who looked at the account would be aware of Xs 
circumstances. This is in line with good practice.
Yorkshire also said that on February 2020, following advice from its vulnerable customer 
support team, that a manager should monitor the account and ensure that no contact was 
made without his approval. This is reasonable in the circumstances. I think it struck the right 
balance of being sensitive to Xs circumstances, while still recognising that there were 
circumstances where it would be necessary for Yorkshire to contact X to discuss the 
mortgage.
Looking at the position of the mortgage and the amount of contact from Yorkshire, I dont 
consider it was excessive or unfair in the circumstances. 
Credit file
I appreciate Xs point that she has been left in an invidious position because of the adverse 
information recorded on her credit file by Yorkshire. She lost her job because of issues 
related to the abuse she experienced, that meant she was unable to pay the mortgage on 
her own and that led to adverse information being recorded on her credit file, which will 
affect her ability to obtain credit and find another job in the future. 
I can see why X considers that is unfair. But Yorkshire is obliged to record true and accurate 
information about the conduct of the mortgage on Xs credit file. I accept that the information 
on the credit file does not reflect the full picture or the reason behind the arrears. It doesnt 
follow, that Yorkshire has acted unfairly or unreasonably in recording the information it has. I 
dont think the circumstances here would prevent a lender from recording accurate 
information about the conduct of the mortgage  even if it accepted that the situation X found 
herself in was outside her control.The investigator suggested that X could apply a notice of correction to her credit file 
explaining the circumstances behind the adverse information that has been recorded. I know 
that X will, understandably, probably find that unsatisfactory in the circumstances. But that 
option is still available to her.
Conclusion
I consider that Yorkshire has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this case. It 
had a duty to treat X fairly. I dont think it has acted unfairly bearing in mind what is good 
practice for a lender in these circumstances. So I dont consider that Yorkshire needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
I note X said that Yorkshire told her she couldnt live at the mortgaged property. But I havent 
seen any evidence to support this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman