DRN-4514803
The complaint
Mr G complains that ReAssures delay in transferring his pension benefits caused a £2,478
loss in value of his seven P35 series policies between 12 April and 17 June 2022, and a
£1,296 loss in the value of his P50 series policy between 17 February and 15 June 2022. In
addition, exchange rates moved against him over this time causing a further £3,305 loss.
He also seeks £10,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused including:}
Being unwilling to engage with his overseas adviser despite having a written authority.
- Fragmenting its operations so that the P50 policy was left out of the transfer as it was 
dealt with by a different department.
- Sending letters from Estonia and Jersey which took 42 and 30 days, respectively, to 
arrive, and other postal delays which could have been avoided by using email.
- Providing vague reasons why it wouldnt transfer his policies until he sought guidance 
from the UK Government affiliated guidance service, MoneyHelper.
- Failing to meet the timescales it set out in the transfer process.
- Taking too long to clarify the position regarding who should complete an Appropriate 
Advice Declaration.
- Seeking further confirmation from him to transfer the P35 policies, even after this 
declaration had been correctly completed.
What happened
In 2021 Mr G had passed his 60th birthday and was looking into transferring his eight
ReAssure pension policies to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS)
administered by Zurich Life in his home country, which was outside the UK. Three of the P35
policies provided a guaranteed annual income at retirement (from which a transfer value was
available), and the remaining policies (including the P50 policy) were based on a fund value.
ReAssure initially acknowledged contact from Mr G online on 15 March 2021. Firstly, there
was an issue with updating the postcode in his address which resulted in a separate change
of address notification being issued for each policy. As ReAssure separately settled a
complaint about this with compensation for the inconvenience caused, Im not looking at that
issue again here.
Mr G followed this up with an email to ReAssure on 4 May which explained, I need
information on my policies and QROPS so that I can plan for my retirement (I am in my 61st
year). ReAssure then apologised on 17 May: "We do apologise for the delay in issuing out
this information.... Please note transfer forms will follow under a separate cover. It then
posted him a transfer pack dated 1 June, but it used a European print fulfilment/courier
service which routed the letter via Estonia, and he didnt receive it until 13 July.
The pack initially quoted one of his P35 policy numbers and a total transfer value of £70,563.
But it also confirmed, This is a Versatile IPP policy so all 7 policies [each P35 number was
listed] must be treated as one and taken at the same time in the same manner. The letter
reminded him that there were some valuable guarantees attached if he retired at age 65,
and that because of these, under government legislation in order to transfer hed need to
show hed taken advice from an accredited UK financial adviser. An Appropriate Advice
Declaration (AAD) form for that UK adviser to complete was enclosed, as well as (amongst
other things) an overseas transfer questionnaire and HMRC overseas transfer form.
Mr G says that he found the amount of information overwhelming but he was fairly sure that
other policies were included in the £70,563 valuation provided. As he couldnt make sense of
the information, he decided to engage a regulated adviser in the country in which he lives,
rather than the UK. This evidently took some time. They contacted ReAssure on 1 October
enclosing a letter of authority from Mr G, quoting all eight policy numbers, and asking again
what documents it required to make the transfer.
The Zurich Life QROPS then emailed ReAssure direct on 14 October, confirming its UK
HMRC reference number and giving undertakings that it would adhere to the restrictions on
accessing benefits that would ensure that QROPS registration would be maintained. All eight
policy numbers were also quoted on Zurich Lifes letter.
On 3 November 2021 the part of ReAssure which dealt with the P35 policies issued a further
transfer pack giving a total transfer value of £73,454 as at 27 October. All the same forms as
previously were included. On 1 December Zurich Life posted a further copy of the same
transfer request it had emailed previously, by letter. Unlike Zurich Lifes previous email, and
potentially in reaction to ReAssures documents, the letter only mentioned the P35 policies.
Its important to note as part of this background that on 30 November, the UK Government
implemented the Pension Schemes Act 2021 and particularly the Occupational and Personal
Pension Schemes (Conditions for Transfers) Regulations 2021. In so far as they apply to
Mr Gs case, these regulations limited the statutory right to transfer to a QROPS to situations
where the member was resident in the host country and there was no evidence they had
been cold-called, offered incentives or pressured to make the transfer. Additionally if further
warning signs were present, known as amber flags, the member had to be referred to the
government endorsed guidance service MoneyHelper before they could exercise that
statutory right.
Alongside this, further guidance on processing transfer requests was issued by The
Pensions Regulator (TPR)  the intention of which was to mirror these legal regulations, and
also to assist with providers assessments of whether they should grant a non-statutory
transfer where that was available under the policy terms.
On 21 December Mr G completed and submitted the transfer forms for the P35 policies,
which had been countersigned by Zurich Life. These included the AAD form which his
overseas adviser, rather than a UK authorised adviser, had signed. They also included an
overseas transfer questionnaire on which he again listed the P35 policy numbers. This
explained his reasons for transferring as I want my pension assets to be in [country] where I
live. Mr G answered Yes to the question Have you been told you can access your
pension before the normal retirement age of 55?. Mr G also confirmed that he had initiated
the transfer and was able to explain where his funds were going to be invested and what the
charges were, including the fee payable to his adviser.
Mr Gs overseas adviser emailed these forms to ReAssure on 31 December 2021, and also
chased why the P50 policy had been omitted. There was an apparent misunderstanding at
this point which led to ReAssures department for the P35 policies on 21 January 2022
issuing Mr G a further copy of its November 2021 transfer pack, confirming that we have
quoted all 7 policies correctly within these forms". But Mr G established in several phone
calls that the eighth (P50) policy hadnt been included because it was administered by a
separate department. Mr G has given the dates of these calls variously as 24 and 28
January, or 24 and 28 February.
On 1 February ReAssure emailed Mr G confirming that it had begun the overseas transferprocess for the P35 policies, saying this would take 10-15 working days. (It doesnt appear
that ReAssure had identified that the adviser on the AAD form wasnt UK authorised.)
Confusingly, through an online query on ReAssures website on 3 February, Mr G relayed
some questions his adviser had about his policies that would normally be relevant in order to
give that advice  such as whether they were on a defined benefit (DB) basis.
Having not been able to get any more information from ReAssure, Mr G complained about
the delay in transferring all the policies on 28 February. He included with his complaint the
same request to confirm key pieces of policy information which were required by his adviser.
Another department within ReAssure then issued a transfer pack for the P50 policy on
11 March. The transfer value at that date was £29,474. This policy didnt contain any
guarantees, so advice from a UK authorised adviser wasnt required. But otherwise, similar
warnings and the same documentation was required as the other transfer packs, with the
new addition of evidence to prove a residency link as required under the Conditions for
Transfers Regulations Ive referred to above.
On 15 March Mr G belatedly received an information pack for all his P35 policies explaining
what he would receive if he drew benefits directly from ReAssure, dated 15 February and
postmarked in Jersey. The total transfer value was £73,491. (Its not clear why this was sent
but potentially it was with a view to addressing the further questions Mr G had asked about
his policies on 3 February.) Mr G says he was also sent annual statements for some of his
policies at around this time, also from Jersey. He refers to a valuation given for his P50
policy of £30,402 on 15 February.
On 28 March ReAssure responded to Mr Gs complaint, explaining that it had found there
was an issue because his adviser wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
in the UK. It made him aware that under HMRC rules the transfer process would have to be
aborted and restarted if it couldnt be completed in 60 days, or it would incur an overseas
transfer tax charge. ReAssure said the delay was a mistake on its part which shouldnt have
happened, and it would be looking to carry out a loss calculation to see if hed lost out once
the funds had been transferred. In the meantime it sent him a cheque for £165 including £15
currency conversion costs to say sorry.
Mr G signed the transfer forms for his P50 policy on 29 March, giving a different answer on
his transfer questionnaire that he hadnt been told he could access funds before age 55. But
enclosed was the transfer request letter from Zurich Life referring to the P35 policies rather
than the P50 policy, and omitting Zurich Lifes part of the HMRC forms. Hard copies of these
were posted and emailed by Mr Gs overseas adviser to ReAssure on 1 April. Mr G says he
provided Zurich Lifes part of the HMRC form immediately when asked to do so on 5 April.
On the same day, ReAssure wrote to Mr Gs adviser asking if he had any FCA approval, to
avoid the need for it to restart the 60-day transfer process for the P35 policies.
On 11 April ReAssure acknowledged that Mr G had returned its £165 cheque, adding I
acknowledge the time it's taken for ReAssure to clarify the position regarding your [AAD]
form and who should complete this, and I agree when you challenged this in February
2022, we didnt reply within our current timescales to confirm whether we could accept the
[overseas adviser]. Nevertheless it also highlighted that we confirmed on two occasions the
criteria for the completion of the [AAD] form.
Mr G located a separate UK authorised firm to advise him and sought a breakdown of the
P35 values contained in the transfer quote, which was supplied to that authorised adviser as
at 12 April, totalling £73,664. That adviser recommended that Mr G transfer his seven P35
policies, and Mr G sent ReAssure the required AAD form completed by this adviser on
18 May.On 31 May ReAssure sent Mr G a letter with the heading "We won't transfer your pension to
the scheme you've selected". In summary the letter said ReAssure was concerned Mr G
might become the victim of a pension scam, and it was bound by the FCAs rules to avoid
taking action which could significantly disadvantage him. It referred to the Conditions for
Transfers Regulations, and explained that it required him to book an appointment with
MoneyHelper in order to complete the transfer because of the following:
Following our review it is unclear if the scheme facilitates access to overseas funds, this
raises a warning under the regulations requiring you take specific guidance before the
transfer can proceed

If you do not take the required guidance (or do not send us evidence following your
appointment), you will not have a statutory right to transfer to this scheme and we will not
transfer your pension.
Mr G confirmed to ReAssure on 1 June that hed booked a MoneyHelper appointment for
13 June. But he took issue with ReAssures request as he thought it had enough information
for the question of overseas investments not to still remain unclear  and if not, it should
have clarified this point with Zurich Life. He thought this brought ReAssures competency
into question, it had unfairly cast aspersions on his choice of destination scheme, and in any
event the heading of its letter was contradictory.
On 13 June Mr G emailed ReAssure confirmation of his completed MoneyHelper
appointment and transfer forms for the P50 policy. The transfer of this policy was then
completed two days later for £29,106.73.
Meanwhile, Mr G had chased ReAssure again on 8 June for an update on the transfer of his
P35 policies. ReAssure phoned him on 15 June to double check he wanted to proceed with
this transfer, and it went ahead on 17 June for £71,013. Mr G has questioned the need for
this further call, why ReAssure told him on 20 June that it had no record of the call taking
place, and why it was unable to confirm to him until 28 June that the transfer had in fact
happened. He didnt receive the letter confirming this (dated 17 June) until 29 June, and
questions why this (and previous) documents couldnt simply have been emailed.
ReAssure responded to Mr Gs further complaints on 9 August, maintaining that it had
already offered adequate compensation, and would contact Zurich Life to establish if the
delays weve caused had led to financial loss. But whilst Mr G referred his complaint to our
service the following month, ReAssure also wrote to Mr G on 8 November 2022 to propose a
simpler method of compensation based on the fall in value of any of the P35 policies that fell
between in value between 15 May and 15 June 2022 (resulting in £158 compensation).
However, one of our investigators noted (amongst other things) that this didnt take into 
account the performance of the funds Mr G invested in within the QROPS, and the earlier 
transfer date of 15 May 2022 seemed to have been selected arbitrarily as ReAssure had 
caused other delays, including to the transfer of the P50 policy. He also said that the loss 
calculation should also take into account the change in the exchange rates between earlier 
dates he concluded the transfers should have happened, and dates they actually happened. 
Mr G also felt the investigators proposed payment for distress and inconvenience was 
grossly inadequate. At various points hes said:
- It has been a complete nightmare dealing with ReAssure in trying to get information,
communicate at even a basic level and to get them to carry out my instructions.
- Compensation of £150 would seem to trivialise the ordeal that ReAssure have put
me through. Furthermore, such a small penalty for ReAssure does not provide adeterrent from them continuing to treat their customers so badly.
- They were earning in excess of £1000 per annum in fees & commission (1% x
(£73k+£30k)) and it was in their interest to delay any transfer request as long as
possible in the knowledge that they would not have to pay more than £150
ReAssure added, A business decision was reached and these plans were transferred 
together to the same Scheme. This appears to be a reference to the fact that the letter from 
Zurich Life agreeing to accept the transfer, which was attached to Mr Gs P50 transfer forms, 
only listed the P35 numbers  but that Mr Gs intentions were clear from the wider 
correspondence.
Although £150 proposed for distress and inconvenience was subsequently increased to 
£300, which Mr G was willing to accept, ReAssure wasnt willing to comply with the rest of 
the investigators findings on how loss should be calculated. So the complaint was referred 
to me for a decision.  
Mr G asked for it to be noted that his UK registered adviser experienced considerable delays 
in getting  information from ReAssure. Mr G had always dealt with communications promptly, 
and he considered this as indicative as to how he would have engaged with ReAssure if the
paperwork had been sent earlier. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a Provisional Decision on 29 November 2023 amending how redress was 
calculated, but maintaining the compensation for distress and inconvenience at £300. I 
asked for responses by 13 December 2023. 
ReAssure didnt respond within the timescale requested. Mr G did respond, asking how he 
could access details of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index that I 
proposed be used to calculate compensation. He said he was happy accept my Provisional 
Decision on the basis that only a positive return on this index would be added to his 
compensation. 
Ill repeat the findings of my Provisional Decision below, which have been adapted to take 
into account Mr Gs comments.
Delay in transferring the P35 policies
I agree with the investigator that it wasnt clear Mr G was potentially looking to transfer these
policies until his email to ReAssure of 4 May 2021. Even with that, I think the request could
have been put more clearly by Mr G. It said he was looking for information on my policies
and QROPS. Im not aware that ReAssure provides a QROPS itself and Mr Gs request
could be read as him wanting to find out more about this type of policy  which is something
hed have to go to an independent adviser for.
So, Im not surprised that there was some delay before ReAssure realised it would need to
log a request to produce a transfer pack. And as three of Mr Gs policies included
guaranteed benefits, this wasnt the most straightforward transfer pack to produce. Allowing
also for the fact that the COVID pandemic had just hit, I dont think that the timescale for
ReAssure issuing this pack on 1 June was unreasonable  particularly as it wrote to update
Mr G on 17 May that the paperwork would be on the way. I think that ReAssures apology for
a delay at this point was it aiming to provide good customer service, despite the challengesfacing all companies at this time, and doesnt automatically mean compensation is payable.
ReAssure sent the transfer pack of 1 June from Estonia to the country Mr G resided in,
but I havent been able to safely conclude that this was entirely within its control. Most offices 
were closed or operating with substantial social distancing measures at this time, which 
clearly posed a specific problem to printing and collating large amounts of post. Weve asked 
ReAssure about this, and it says its printing services during lockdown were sometimes 
provided by a third party but that Royal Mail was typically used.
I suspect the issue here was that Mr Gs mailing needed to be posted outside the UK, and
this may have resulted in the third party selecting a different fulfilment centre and/or carrier in
cognisance of where the bottlenecks were in the postal services  Im mindful that the UKs
sorting offices were significantly affected by the lockdown at that time. Its going to be difficult
to get to the bottom of what happened, but I very much doubt these steps were taken with
the intention of delaying receipt of the transfer pack, as Mr G suggests. Im satisfied they
were taken in good faith in order to avoid hold ups in more conventional postal routes. A
similar point applies to some later documents which were posted from Jersey (although they
werent as pivotal to the transfer process.)
In any event, this delay didnt impacted on the 60 day period Mr G had to complete a transfer 
request: as ReAssures transfer pack itself said, that period began when Mr G returned the 
transfer request form  not when he asked for the forms.
A more pertinent question is why these and other forms couldnt be issued by email. To
answer that I first need to consider why these forms were normally being posted. There are
a large number to complete, much of it being required by the UK tax authorities, regulations
to protect against the threat of scams, and to ensure that financial advice is obtained where
required by law. The threat of scams in particular means I dont think its unreasonable that
ReAssure wanted to ensure that the forms went directly to the policyholders home address
rather than potentially being intercepted by email. The transfer pack itself was required to
include a scam warning insert which it was important for Mr G to read, rather than being
overlooked as part of an email that he might simply have passed to an adviser.
That being the case, ReAssures systems were set up to issue these documents by post and
it would not have been straightforward to switch to an email dispatch method when the
pandemic hit. If it was that straightforward, I doubt ReAssure would have been needing to
locate a third party which was able to fulfil its printing operation when its offices were closed.
Im sure that was not without its challenges.
Ultimately it isnt for me as an ombudsman to set out how ReAssure should have structured
its operations  as thats a matter for the regulator (the FCA). However I accept that under
the FCAs rules to treat customers fairly, there might have been specific situations where
ReAssure would reasonably have needed to adapt its communications in light of specific
feedback from Mr G  perhaps to use email. But I dont think this is one of those situations.
The impact of COVID on services was changing all the time, its worst impact was relatively
short lived, and I note that not all of Mr Gs letters were delayed to the same extent. And
Mr Gs location doesnt appear to be one where even normally letters would be an unreliable
communication method. Whilst its clearly unfortunate that the longest delay was to the initial
transfer pack, Im satisfied that was largely because of its timing during the pandemic. And
unfortunately, much of the delays after that point were because the messages in this transfer
pack about getting UK registered advice werent heeded by Mr G or his overseas adviser.
That this advice is required isnt something I can change, as it has been a UK government
requirement since 2015 (whether Mr G lives in the UK or not). Mr G evidently hadntanticipated that taking advice would be necessary at all, and the subsequent delay until 1
October in doing so (and then choosing an overseas rather than a UK adviser) isnt
something for which its fair to hold ReAssure responsible.
I dont think ReAssure was wrong to issue a new transfer pack when Mr G appointed the
overseas adviser, as that was in effect what theyd requested. ReAssure was now being
contacted by a different party  the previous request came from Mr G directly  and it wasnt
to know what that adviser already had in their possession. I understand Mr Gs point that
further delays were then caused here: it took nearly a month to issue the second transfer
pack, at a time when its more reasonable to expect communication times to have fallen
back to pre-COVID levels. However Im not satisfied that the delays at this stage were solely
ReAssures fault when, as Ive said, Mr G ought to have known that he should go direct to a
UK authorised adviser if he intended to transfer these policies.
As the P35 policies would always have been transferred after the point that the Conditions
for Transfers Regulations had been introduced (in November 2021), ReAssure would also
have been required to check Mr Gs residency status and that there were no other amber
flags applying to the transfer that might necessitate him booking an appointment with
MoneyHelper. (Ultimately those subsequent checks were satisfied by ReAssures separate
scrutiny of the P50 policy transfer  so Ill discuss them in the next section.)
However at the time on the P35 policies, ReAssure instead identified the more significant
problem of Mr Gs adviser not being UK authorised. Its admitted to a delay in doing this, but
has also pointed out that this was a delay Mr G could himself have avoided. I think thats
right, and whilst there was a process ReAssure was expecting to go through the forms Mr G
had submitted to check for the wider risk of a scam, I dont think the first thing it would have
expected  given the instructions it gave in the transfer pack  was that the signed AAD form
hed submitted wasnt signed by an appropriate person.
I note Mr Gs point that ReAssures delay in responding to questions further delayed the UK
adviser providing their advice. But in my view the purpose of the information provided in the
transfer pack was to set out what the guarantees were in some of the P35 policies, how they
applied, and what the total transfer value was of all the policies. Ive seen that the UK
adviser sought a breakdown of the individual policy values, but as all the policies either had
to be transferred together or not at all, Im not persuaded this was necessary.
Mr G provided his confirmation of UK authorised advice on 18 May 2022 but the P35 funds
werent transferred for a further month. This time seems to have been taken up by the
parallel checks ReAssure was making into the risk of a scam in the transfer of the P50
policy. Those same risks, which potentially affected whether Mr G had a statutory right to
transfer, applied to all his policies  even if hed obtained the required UK authorised advice
on the P35 policies. So Ill consider in the next section what the timescale should have been
for identifying these risks on the P50 transfer.
Delay in transferring the P50 policy
Ill reiterate here that its not for me to dictate how ReAssure organises its business, which
includes the fact that Mr Gs section-32 policies and his P50 policy (which was funded
differently, from opting out of part of the State pension scheme) are administered by different
departments. But I agree with the investigator that if ReAssure had interpreted Mr Gs email
of 4 May 2021 as a request for QROPS transfer forms, it should have duplicated that request
to the departments administering all of the policies Mr G had numbered on his email.
A further opportunity to do this was also missed by ReAssure when Mr Gs overseas adviser
requested the same on 1 October 2021. However, Ive also taken into account that all thenumbers of the policies featured were listed in the transfer packs and the P50 number was
absent each time. Mr G was evidently aware that he had a P50 policy, so I think he also
missed an opportunity to highlight clearly to ReAssure at an earlier stage that this P50
transfer pack had been overlooked and specifically request that it sent this too. It took Mr Gs
overseas adviser until 31 December 2021 to query this.
But what I think is more galling is that when Mr Gs overseas adviser asked the question,
ReAssure denied that there was another policy for it to include in the transfer. I dont think
administering different policies from different departments should be a barrier to answering
questions accurately, particularly when the absence of the P50 policy was being specifically
questioned. Mr G clearly had to make a number of phone calls to ReAssure to impress this
point and I agree he was caused distress and inconvenience by this.
ReAssure says that Mr G didnt request the P50 transfer until it logged receipt of all the
necessary forms from him on 5 April 2022. That may be the case but it was only because
ReAssure had denied Mr G and his advisers previous efforts to obtain the necessary
transfer pack to return these forms.
On the balance of probabilities, even if ReAssure had provided a transfer pack on 1 June
2021 for the P50 policy I find it unlikely that anything different would have happened in
respect of transferring it before Mr G appointed his adviser in October 2021 and that adviser
asked for the transfer forms again. No criticism of Mr G is intended here  transferring
pensions is a complicated matter, and most often done under advice. Even if a second set of
P50 forms had been sent to the overseas adviser and Mr G returned them on 21 December
2021  as he did for the P35 policies  ReAssure would still have been obliged to carry out
the checks for residency, red and amber flags under the Conditions for Transfer Regulations
which had been introduced in the meantime.
The fact that Mr G answered  in the forms we can see he completed for the P35 policies 
that hed been told he could access his pension before the normal retirement age of 55,
would have caused a problem here. Whilst I expect this was a mistake by Mr G in
completing the form, it would have caused ReAssure to refuse his statutory right to transfer
the P50 policy because it constituted a red flag under the regulations. It would have
appeared as Mr G being offered an incentive to make the transfer, as access to benefits
before age 55 wouldnt be permitted as a condition of a legitimate QROPS.
This therefore presents me with some difficulty in being able to conclude that Mr G would
have been able to transfer the P50 policy significantly sooner, as it wasnt until 29 March
2022 that he corrected this mistake on the forms he sent from the P50 transfer pack
ReAssure actually issued. (If Mr G had sent the P35 and P50 forms at the same time on 21
December 2021, it doesnt appear likely hed have given a different answer for each policy,
so the answer he actually gave on 21 December 2021 seems to me the most likely answer
hed have given.)
ReAssure also raised an amber flag because it lacked sufficient information about whether
the QROPS would invest in overseas funds. TPRs guidance at the time read as follows:
You may take a risk-based decision, on the balance of probabilities, that amber flags are
not likely to be present where you consider you already have enough information to make
that decision. If you are not able to reach such a decision, you can make a formal request for
further information from the member. After making this formal request, you must decide if
you have reason to believe that any of the amber flags are present. If you decide they are,
the member will be required to attend a guidance session with MoneyHelper before the
transfer can proceed.ReAssure had already asked Mr G on its questionnaire Please tell us how youve asked
your new scheme to invest your money, but his response wasnt particularly specific on
what funds were going to be used: he said I want it invested in a medium risk multi asset
fund with Zurich. TPRs guidance on this point went on to say:
Amber flag 6: Overseas investments are included in the scheme
The specific concern here is not whether the investment is in, for example, a global equity fund
but whether the investment is in assets or funds where there is a lax, or non-existent, regulatory
environment or in jurisdictions which allow opaque corporate structures.
Some overseas advisers recommend members invest their pension funds in an offshore
investment bond in an international self-invested personal pension. The FCA has warned that
this may expose members to high or unnecessary charges and has stated that the tax
benefits of such arrangements are redundant for a member investing in a UK personal pension.
It would have been possible for ReAssure to ask Mr G for more information about what his
adviser was recommending he invest in, before drawing conclusions about whether this flag
applied. One the one hand he was investing in a QROPS outside the UK, so it was unlikely
that all of the funds would still be UK onshore funds. And the country in which his QROPS
was established wouldnt reasonably be considered to have a lax regulatory environment.
But on the other, ReAssure wasnt to know whether Mr G was selecting funds managed by
Zurich Life itself, or less mainstream offshore funds that might be allowed on Zurich Lifes
QROPS platform.
Concerns have also been raised in the UK pensions industry that this guidance from TPR
doesnt precisely mirror the underlying legislation, which is more widely drafted. Some
businesses have interpreted the legislation as meaning that it applies to any fund investing
overseas, and also that it can be interpreted as including investments that other members of
the receiving scheme are already making. Im not going to comment specifically on what a 
business should do here. Ultimately, ReAssure decided that it did have reason to believe 
that this amber flag was present  and it decided to take that decision without spending more 
time asking Mr G questions first.
That was a decision for ReAssure to make, and in forming a view on this Ive taken into
account that Mr G was able to obtain a MoneyHelper appointment relatively quickly, and did
so without undue protest. I say this as if ReAssure had asked Mr G for further information 
first, that wasnt guaranteed to remove the potential obstacle to his transfer. ReAssure 
wouldnt know whether that might reveal further matters of concern  for instance if any of 
the investments appeared to be high risk or unregulated. It couldnt guarantee that 
continuing to ask questions would move matters forward as quickly as Mr G attending the 
appointment. In the event, Mr G attending the appointment did move the process forward. 
On balance, therefore, Im not minded to say that ReAssure acted unreasonably here.
I understand why Mr G thinks that ReAssure was casting aspersions on his choice of
receiving scheme, but these regulations and guidance were put in place by the UK
authorities to guard against what was a growing and serious threat of pension scams at that
time. From what I can see, ReAssure was doing its best to adhere to these regulations and
guidance, and Im not persuaded that it treated Mr G unfairly in asking him to attend a 
MoneyHelper appointment  which was the one thing that could remove a potential obstacle 
in the way of transferring.
Putting things right
ReAssure has already agreed to the investigators proposal to use 28 March 2022 as the exit
date for Mr Gs P35 policies. I think thats fair and reasonable. Weighing up Mr Gs
contribution to the delay from not seeking UK authorised advice at the first opportunity hewas warned he should do so, with ReAssures administrative delays, on balance I find it
unlikely the transfer would have completed sooner had ReAssure treated Mr G fairly.
I dont agree with the investigators proposal that the timescale for transferring the P50 policy
would have come so much earlier  at 8 July 2021. I think the investigator overlooked that
even Mr G was arguing that this transfer would still have happened in 2022. July 2021
predates Mr G receiving the P35 transfer pack.
Ive concluded that Mr G would likely have completed the forms to transfer the P50 policy on
21 December, or slightly sooner if some of ReAssures delays in issuing the second transfer
pack could have been avoided. But Im satisfied that these forms would more likely than not
have revealed a concerning answer about Mr G having access to his benefits before age 55.
It would have been possible for Mr G to correct that answer  either through ReAssure
clarifying it, or seeking to refuse the transfer and Mr G having to explain hed made a
mistake. However, some discussion would have been needed and that would have
potentially taken a significant time.
ReAssure was also entitled to raise the query about overseas investments that it
subsequently did  and for the reasons that Ive explained above and in the circumstances of 
this particular complaint, it didnt act unreasonably in deciding it was most expedient to ask 
Mr G to attend a MoneyHelper appointment. Im satisfied Mr G would likely have been able 
to do that quickly  as he in fact did. 
All of this means in my view that the P50 policy transfer couldnt have been completed much 
sooner than 28 March 2022. But by completing this transfer sooner it would also have 
resolved any obstacles in the Conditions for Transfers Regulations that would have 
otherwise held up the P35 transfers. So in summary, Im persuaded its a fair and reasonable 
conclusion that all of Mr Gs transfers could have been valued on 28 March 2022. 
Mr G says that the transfer proceeds were going to be invested in a medium risk multi-asset 
portfolio. So, I think a benchmark representing a mixture of shares, bonds, property and 
cash will best reflect how those funds might have grown within Mr Gs QROPS if they had 
been transferred sooner. The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index would 
in my view most closely correspond to Mr Gs stated attitude to risk. This doesnt mean that 
Mr G was investing specifically for income, or would have invested exactly in line with this 
index. Rather, its being used as a proxy for the types of investments hed likely have made.
I need to clarify to Mr G that as with any investment benchmark, this index can go both up 
and down in line with market movements. Where I referred in my Provisional Decision to 
adding a return in line with this index, this return can be a positive or negative adjustment. 
The aim of any compensation is to put Mr G back into the position he would have been in but 
for ReAssures errors, which means modelling the performance a medium risk multi-asset 
portfolio would likely have achieved whether that was upwards or downwards. 
As I said in my Provisional Decision, the values of the ReAssure policies may have dropped 
between March and June 2022, but so did markets generally to some extent. In other words, 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index may also have dropped. 
Exchange rates also fell, so this may also give rise to some loss overall. However it wouldnt 
be consistent with the aim of calculating compensation to only make an adjustment to the 
amounts Mr G could have received from ReAssure in March 2022 if the markets went up.
To resolve this complaint, ReAssure should therefore do the following:
1. Calculate the transfer value of the P35 and P50 policies as at 28 March 2022.
2. Multiply these values by the historical Pound to Euro exchange rate published onxe.com for 28 March 2022.
3. Apply the further return to these values in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors
Income Total Return index from 28 March 2022 until the dates the actual ReAssure
exit values were calculated.
4. Multiply the actual ReAssure exit values by the historical Pound to Euro exchange
rate published on xe.com for those actual exit dates.
5. Any loss Mr G has suffered in Euros on the actual exit dates is determined from (3) 
(4). If the result is negative, there is a gain and no compensation is payable.
6. This loss in Euros should be updated up to the date of my Final Decision, again in
line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index.
If there is a loss, the method that puts Mr G as close as possible to the position he should be
in, is if ReAssure pays a sufficient amount into his QROPS to increase its value (after any
tax relief and charges) by the amount of the loss as at the date of my Final Decision. If
ReAssure is unwilling or unable to do this, it should pay the loss amount direct to Mr G. But
had it been possible to pay into the QROPS, it would have provided a taxable income.
Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that
would otherwise have been paid.
In Mr Gs country theres a monetary limit of funds that are payable from a pension tax-free,
and funds above that amount are initially taxable at 20%. Its therefore my view that the extra
funds represented by any loss would be taxable in Mr Gs hands at 20%, and so it would be
reasonable for ReAssure to make a notional reduction of 20% to any compensation it pays
Mr G in cash.
If ReAssure is unable to make the payment  however it is made  in Euros, it may divide
the amount payable by the exchange rate published on xe.com on the date payment is made
and make the payment in Pounds. 
Data for the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is available under licence 
from FTSE and usually available to financial organisations via third party data providers. 
ReAssure should also provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format 
which shows how it determined the change in value of that index.
Distress and inconvenience
The investigator obtained an improved offer of £300 from ReAssure. This is somewhere
between the level of awards we would make where there has been a material impact on the
consumer (more than minor inconvenience), or a more considerable impact. Ive considered
the delays ReAssure caused, but also taken into account Mr Gs contribution to those delays
as a result of the information he provided and documents that were completed by the wrong
adviser. Further, there are some allowances to be made for the impact of the COVID
pandemic, as Ive set out above.
None of these in my view provide an excuse for ReAssure failing to identify the request for
the P50 transfer pack or providing such unhelpful answers when Mr G or his adviser queried
this. Nor the longer delay than I would expect in providing the November 2021 transfer pack.
However, the loss calculation Ive proposed is designed to put right those delays.
I appreciate Mr G feels that ReAssure was more widely obstructive throughout the process,
such as claiming to make phone calls he hadnt received or not having records of calls he
had made. Clearly, there is some evidence of disorganisation at ReAssure  but I think this
was likely a matter of one department not knowing what the other was doing. To the extent
that this relates to how ReAssure structures its operations, Ive already said Im not going to
comment further.Ive also said that what Mr G saw as ReAssure denigrating his choice of QROPS provider
was as a result of it acting in its clients best interests to protect against the risk of pension
scams. For that reason, I dont think it was wrong for ReAssure to double-check with Mr G
personally that he wanted to transfer his P35 policies after it received the signed AAD form,
given the extent of the warnings it had given about the guarantees he would be losing.
Some of Mr Gs observations are part of how ReAssure dealt with the complaint itself. What
Im looking at in this decision is ReAssures conduct in the events which led to the complaint,
rather than how it dealt with the complaint. So Im not going to make any finding on whether
ReAssure attempted to make a phone call before it wrote to Mr G with its outcome, or
whether it explained its loss assessment well enough. Now that the complaint is with this
service, its now my view of what ReAssure should do to put matters right thats relevant.
The awards we make for distress and inconvenience arent intended to be a punishment for
the firm or to deter similar behaviour in future. Those are matters for the FCA. Ive
considered the personal impact on Mr G and consider that an award of £300, in addition to
the loss assessment Ive proposed, is fair and reasonable compensation in this case.
(ReAssure may convert the £300 to its Euro equivalent in line with the instructions above if it
is making payment in Euros.)
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require ReAssure Limited to calculate and pay him 
compensation as set out above.
If compensation isnt paid within 28 days of ReAssures receipt of Mr Gs acceptance of my
Final Decision, interest must be added at the rate of 8%pa simple from the date of the Final
Decision until the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman