DRN-3075142
The complaint
Ms C and Mr R complain that Gill Noble & Company Limited (GN) mis-sold them an annual 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms C and Mr R took out an annual travel insurance policy through GN, 
following a phone call between Mr R and GNs advisor. The policy provided cover between 8 
November 2019 and 7 November 2020. It was underwritten by an insurer called S. GN sent 
Ms C and Mr R their policy documentation. Ms C subsequently called GN in February 2020 
to declare and pay for cover for additional medical conditions which hadnt been declared 
when the policy was taken out.
Ms C and Mr R were travelling abroad. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 
23 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised all UK 
nationals abroad to return to the UK. So Ms C and Mr R cut short their holiday and returned 
to the UK early. Due to ongoing travel restrictions caused by Covid-19, Ms C and Mr R were 
also unable to travel on another planned trip in September 2020. So they made a claim to S 
for the curtailment costs associated with cutting short their first trip and the cancellation costs 
for their second.
S didnt pay either claim in full. It said Ms C and Mr Rs policy didnt provide cover for 
cancellation or curtailment claims which were down to changes in FCDO advice. It instead 
paid them up to the policy limit of £750 per person under the journey disruption section of the 
policy. The policy did provide cover in the event of cancellation or curtailment due to a 
change in FCDO advice if a policyholder had opted to take out enhanced travel or terrorism 
disruption cover (ETTDC) and had paid an additional premium for doing so.
Ms C and Mr R felt GN had mis-sold their policy. They felt it shouldve pointed out that the 
policy theyd chosen didnt include cover for cancellation or curtailment due to changes in 
FCDO advice. And that it ought to have highlighted the potential to take out the ETTDC. If 
GN had done so, they said theyd have taken out the cover and their claims wouldve been 
covered. They felt therefore that GN had caused them to suffer losses of over £5000.
GN didnt agree that the policy had been mis-sold to Ms C and Mr R. It said that its advisor 
had asked Mr R whether he wanted to add ETTDC and hed answered no. 
Ms C and Mr R remained unhappy with the way GN had sold their policy to them and so they 
asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think that Ms C and Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She noted 
that GN had advised Ms C and Mr R to take out the policy, which meant it needed to make 
sure it was suitable for them. She listened to the call between Mr R and GN and she was 
satisfied that it had checked the level of cancellation cover Mr R said he needed. The 
advisor had also asked whether Mr R wanted ETTDC cover and Mr R had declined to take 
up this option. She felt the policy documents made clear the cover Ms C and Mr R had 
selected. She noted Ms C and Mr R had taken ETTDC in 2018, but she felt this had likely 
been selected at that time, rather than being included as standard.  Overall, while she 
thought GN couldve provided detailed reasons for its recommendation, she didnt think it 
had mis-sold the policy to Ms C and Mr R.
Ms C and Mr R disagreed. They provided a detailed response to our investigator, which Ive 
summarised:
Given theyd previously held ETTDC, GN ought to have pointed this out, although 
they dont feel this had been offered to them in previous years and so they concluded 
it had previously been offered as standard;
Mr R had made it clear that he wanted like-for-like cover based on the policy theyd 
previously held;
They tended to take more adventurous trips and therefore, GN ought to have been 
aware that theyd need and want cover for cancellation or curtailment due to changes 
in FCDO advice;
The advisor hadnt specifically referred to changes in FCDO advice as falling within 
the scope of ETTDC cover;
Most current policies provide cover for this situation;
GN had failed to meets its obligations to provide them with suitable advice.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms C and Mr R, I dont think that GN has done 
anything wrong which it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms C and Mr R that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions; Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
me. In reaching my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point theyve 
raised and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the 
key issues.
In my view, the evidence shows that on balance, GN did advise Ms C and Mr R to take out 
the policy. GN has provided us with a copy of the demands and needs assessment it 
carried out and its also provided us with a letter dated 8 November 2019, titled Statement of 
Demands, Needs and Suitability. The letter includes a paragraph called Your 
Recommendation and Fair Analysis Personal to You. This set out brief bullet points which 
explained why GN felt the policy was right for Ms C and Mr R.
As Im satisfied that GN recommended Ms C and Mr R should take out the contract, it was 
obliged to ensure the policy was suitable for them. Additionally, the regulators Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) rule 6.1(1) also says that GN needed to:
Ensure that a customer is given appropriate information about a policy in good time and is a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.
The relevant regulators Principles for Business also include the following:A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive gone on then to explore whether GN recommended a suitable policy to Ms C and Mr R 
and whether it provided them with clear information about the cover.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to the call between Mr R and GN which took place on 8 
November 2019 to assess whether I think GN met its regulatory responsibilities. GNs 
advisor asked Mr R what level of cancellation cover he required to ensure the right amount 
of protection was provided. I acknowledge that Mr R said at this point that he wanted to 
effectively mirror the level of cover he and Ms C had had during the previous policy year and 
I dont think its clear that he intended to limit this mirroring purely to the level of cancellation 
cover. I can see from Ms C and Mr Rs policy schedule for their 2018-19 policy, which lapsed 
broadly three months before the new policy was taken out, that that policy did include 
ETTDC. So in some circumstances, I may conclude that GN ought to have included the 
ETTDC when carrying out renewal.
However, Im not persuaded, on balance, that it would be fair and reasonable to reach this 
conclusion here. I say that first because I dont think this can fairly be classed as a direct 
renewal. The policy lapsed some weeks before Mr R called to take out the new policy. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to say that cover shouldve been offered on broadly the 
same terms without checking whether that cover still met Ms C and Mr Rs needs. Mr R also 
let GN know that Ms C had considered alternative insurers, which suggests that they felt 
there might be better policies available elsewhere which GN wasnt able to offer.
 
Im satisfied that GN took reasonable steps to establish what Ms C and Mr Rs needs were. 
She checked the maximum trip duration with Mr R and amended it in accordance with his 
needs. And Im satisfied she did ask Mr R whether he wanted additional cover options, 
running through a list of optional add-ons which were available. In particular, she asked Mr R 
whether he wanted additional cover such as travel disruption which she stated covered 
natural disasters and civil unrest. Mr R answered no. 
I accept that the advisor didnt specifically refer to this option providing extended cover for 
cancellation or curtailment due to changes in FCDO advice. But it seems to me that advice 
against travel due to natural disasters or civil unrest is usually issued by the FCDO. Indeed, 
Ms C and Mr R have said theyve previously claimed on this section following previous 
natural disasters, so I think theyd likely have had at least some understanding as to how this 
section of the policy worked and what it covered. And I think it was reasonable for GNs 
advisor to exclude this add-on from the policy based on the answer Mr R provided.
Following the sale of the policy, GN sent Ms C and Mr R policy documentation, in line with its 
regulatory obligations. It also sent them an updated copy of the policy paperwork in February 
2020, following Ms Cs update to her medical conditions. This paperwork included a copy of 
the policy terms, an Insurance Product Information Document and Ms C and Mr Rs policy 
certificate. Ive looked closely at this information.
The policy certificate sets out a table titled Additional Coverages. Included in this table is a 
box which states: Extend Maximum for Each trip to 62 days. Next to this box, the alteration 
taken section is marked yes and a reference number has been entered. Immediately 
underneath, this table refers to Section 20 - ETTDC. Next to this box, is a no to any 
alteration being made and there is no reference number. Aside from the trip limit extension, 
it's clear that no further additional add-ons were taken out, which correlates with the sales 
call.
And the Statement of Demands and Needs letter Ive referred to above lists on page two 
several exclusions which are specific to Ms C and Mr Rs policy. This states: travel disruption cover. On this basis, I think the policy paperwork made it clear enough that Ms C 
and Mr R didnt hold ETTDC cover.
Ms C and Mr Rs policy terms set out a schedule of benefits. This separately includes a table 
called Policy Options Benefits Schedule, setting out the optional add-on covers, under 
which ETTDC is listed. Immediately above this separate table, the policy says:
There are a range of optional extended benefits available to you upon payment of
an additional premium. Please note that this is a summary of cover only. Cover will only 
apply if you have paid the additional premium, per option, and each selected option is shown 
on your certificate.
I think then that the contract terms make it clear that ETTDC cover will only apply if a 
policyholder has paid an additional premium for it and that its listed on the policy certificate. 
As Ive said above, I think the paperwork was sufficiently clear to put Ms C and Mr R on 
notice that they didnt have this particular add-on.
Ms C and Mr R have told us that they did receive the policy paperwork and a copy of the 
policy terms. Its also common ground that Ms C did get in touch with GN in February 2020 
to update her medical conditions, because she noted these hadnt been declared in 
November 2019. So if Ms C and Mr R had felt the ETTDC was necessary (bearing in mind 
theyd previously taken it out), it was open to them to raise its omission with GN and pay for 
the add-on cover. Taking together the totality of the evidence and circumstances, Im 
satisfied that GN did enough to show Ms C and Mr R that ETTDC cover wasnt included on 
their policy during the 2019-20 policy year.
Overall, Ive borne in mind that the policy GN recommended was an annual one in line with 
Ms C and Mr Rs request. It provided cover for their declared medical conditions and it 
ensured Ms C and Mr R had both the level of cancellation cover and maximum trip length 
cover they needed. So on balance, I find the policy was suitable for Ms C and Mr R and met 
the needs Mr R told the advisor he had. This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold to 
them.
I appreciate Ms C and Mr R feel the policy previously included ETTDC as standard. I havent 
seen enough to persuade me this was the case though. Thats because their 2018 policy 
certificate also includes the Additional Coverages section, but in that case, answered yes 
and included a reference number for the ETTDC. This makes me think that for the 2018 year 
at least (the year preceding the sale of the policy Ms C and Mr R have complained about), 
ETTDC was an optional add-on which a policyholder had to specifically request and pay for.
And I appreciate Ms C and Mr R feel that other policies include ETTDC-type cover as 
standard. While I can appreciate that the pandemic highlighted why Ms C and Mr R now 
consider they needed this add-on, I do think they were offered a clear choice whether or not 
to take it, based on the information available to them and GN in November 2019. Id also add 
that in my experience, many insurers did only offer such enhanced travel disruption cover as 
an optional add-on at that time.
In summary, I dont find that GN did anything wrong when it sold Ms C and Mr R their policy 
which it needs to put right. So I make no award against GN.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman