DRN-3953628
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Rs complaint is about a credit card supplied by Santander. The account was opened in 
April 2022 with an initial credit limit of £2900. No further credit limit increases were applied.
Mr R complained that Santander had lent irresponsibly. He felt that the credit limit was too 
high and that he shouldnt have been extended so much credit given that he had only just 
turned 18 and had never had a credit card or loan before. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had assessed Mr Rs application using a 
credit scoring system and that the application had met the criteria to be successful.
Mr R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although she thought Santander 
shouldve carried out further checks before approving the credit card, she wasnt able to say 
what further checks would have shown due to a lack of information.
Mr R didnt agree. He felt it was up to Santander to provide the information it had used to 
assess the application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out o our website. Ive had 
this approach in mind when considering Mr Rs complaint.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of things such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount and the customers income and expenditure.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive referred to above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive looked at the information Santander used when it assessed the application. When he 
applied for the card, Mr R stated that he was employed full time as a mechanical engineer 
earning £22,500 per annum. Mr R stated that his monthly outgoings were £247. Santander 
used a scoring system to decide whether Mr R met the criteria for the credit card. Santander 
hasnt provided details of the criteria it applied when assessing applications and I cant 
require them to divulge this. However, the credit scoring process typically involves looking at 
how much existing debt a customer has, the number and types of other accounts held and 
how these are managed. 
Santander has provided limited information about the checks it carried out. I need to decide 
whether the checks were reasonable and proportionate, considering the factors Ive 
mentioned. The credit limit advanced to Mr R was £2900. This appears high, however, 
theres nothing to suggest that Mr R had any other external debt, so the credit as a 
proportion of his income wasnt disproportionate. Based on the information Ive seen, Mr R 
had sufficient monthly disposable income to sustainably repay the credit card, even it the full 
credit limit was utilised. Theres nothing to indicate that the credit wasnt affordable for Mr R.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Santander were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen any information which would indicate that the credit wasnt 
affordable for Mr R, or that he was over indebted as a result.
In conclusion, I dont think Santander lent irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman