DRN-4107942
The complaint
Miss K has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited caused delays and 
poorly handled a claim she made under her car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Advantage in my decision includes its agents.
What happened
Miss K made a claim to her insurer, Advantage in October 2022. Advantage instructed an 
approved repairer to assess Miss Ks car and arrange repairs. 
Miss Ks car was booked in for repairs just over three weeks later and returned to her in 
December 2022. 
Miss K complained to Advantage. She was very unhappy with the length of time it took to 
repair her car. She said it failed to provide updates to her. Miss K said that she lives in an 
area which requires her car to have a parking permit, that she had a knee injury and that her 
car was a disability registered vehicle. She said her mother was unwell at this time, that she 
is her primary carer, and she was unable to attend the hospital for her mother due to not 
having her car. 
Miss K said although she was offered a courtesy car, this was something she eventually felt 
obliged to take due to the time it took to repair her car. She said Advantage lacked any 
understanding about her circumstances and she would have preferred for her car to have 
been repaired at another garage sooner, rather than deal with the change to parking permits 
with the other issues happening at the time. 
Miss K complained that shed had to upload information twice for Advantage as it incorrectly 
said it hadnt received it. 
Advantage accepted there had been a miscommunication as the repairer had deemed Miss 
Ks car as driveable. So there had been an avoidable delay in booking it in for repairs. And it 
accepted it had asked Miss K to upload information twice. For the delays caused and 
inconvenience, it paid Miss K £100 compensation. 
Advantage said it wasnt responsible for any issues Miss K had with parking permits. It said it 
had offered a courtesy car in line with the policy terms. When Miss K requested a courtesy 
car, one was provided. 
Miss K remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our Investigator thought Advantage should increase the compensation it paid to £250 to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience it had caused. She agreed that Advantage had acted 
reasonably in relation to offering a courtesy car. But due to Miss Ks individual 
circumstances, she found the impact of the overall delay of four weeks was greater on Miss 
K. 
Advantage didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary it says it has fairly 
compensated Miss K for the delays it caused and it hasnt seen any evidence to support an 
increase. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our compensation awards are based on the merits of each case. An insurers failings can 
have a very different impact on a customer, depending on their circumstances. Miss K says 
she had next to no contact with Advantage and it failed to support her during the claim. 
Advantages claim notes do not provide details of the calls Miss K made to the repairer. So 
up until Miss K raised her complaint with Advantage, there is limited information recorded by 
Advantage of what Miss K told it - or the repairer. However, from the response to Miss Ks 
complaint, Advantage was aware that Miss K was a primary carer for her mother and was 
concerned about accepting a courtesy car due to issues with a parking permit and was 
worried about getting a parking fine. 
I agree that Advantage isnt responsible for any issues relating to parking permits. As it 
offered a courtesy car when Miss Ks car was taken for repair, it acted reasonably. However, 
I think from Miss Ks testimony that the delay in arranging the repairs and having the repairs 
approved had a considerable impact on her because of what was happening in her life - and 
I think she made Advantages agent aware of this from the outset of the claim. There is no 
dispute that the repairer incorrectly noted Miss Ks car as driveable when it wasnt - and this 
delayed the repairs being booked in and meant Miss K was without a car for longer - as a 
courtesy car was only available while Miss Ks car was being repaired.  
So - I think the compensation Advantage has paid of £100 for its delay of a month isnt 
enough to put things right in this case. I think a fairer outcome is for Advantage to increase 
the compensation to £250. 
Miss K has raised concerns about the repairs. These are new issues and so Miss K will need 
to first raise them with Advantage. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the compensation it pays Miss K from £100 to £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience its delay caused. 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Miss K accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman