DRN-4191676
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the settlement figure offered by AA Underwriting Insurance 
Company Limited (AA) under their motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had motor insurance with AA. Mrs R was the policyholder and Mr R was a 
named driver. Their car was involved in an accident and AA decided it couldnt be 
economically repaired. Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, AA offered them the 
market value of the car, which it said was £4390. Mr and Mrs R werent happy with this as 
they say this wasnt enough to replace the car. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to AA. AA said that when determining a total loss offer, it aligns its 
process with the guidance issued by this service, using motor trade guides to get the market 
value. AA said the guides it used in the valuation of Mr and Mrs Rs car gave guide prices of 
£4390 and £3505. AA said a total loss settlement is not designed to be the amount it costs to 
replace the vehicle, instead it is a market valuation from prior to the incident, and adverts 
online by sellers and dealerships are profit influenced and not true reflections of price and 
therefore not taken into account.
Mr and Mrs R werent happy with what AA said and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold their complaint. She said she relied on the guides and carried out 
her own research and concluded that the offer made to Mr and Mrs R was within an 
acceptable range of these guides. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with what the investigator said and so their complaint has been 
passed to me. Mr and Mrs R want what they say is a fair settlement of their claim, which they 
believe to be £10,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Rs insurance policy documents said:
The Insurer will pay for loss of or damage to the Insured Car its accessories (excluding 
audio, satellite navigation and communication equipment) and spare parts kept in or on the 
Insured Car or in Your private garage by (at the Insurers discretion):
repairing
or
replacing
or
paying in cash the amount of the loss or the damage.
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
Market value is defined as:
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage, 
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
AA obtained two valuations for Mr and Mrs Rs car - £4390 and £3505. Our investigator also 
obtained valuations for the car from motor trade guides of £3965 and £4475. The sum paid 
by AA is the higher of the two figures it obtained, and is within the range of the figures this 
service obtained. It is also higher than the average of the two figures this service obtained of 
£4220. Mr and Mrs R have sent this service a number of adverts for cars similar to theirs and 
emails from two garages with valuations. All these are higher than the settlement figure paid 
by AA. However according to the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, the market 
value is calculated at the date of the accident or loss not at any later date. This service relies 
on motor trade guides to calculate the market value of a vehicle, not adverts or opinions from 
garages or dealers. These guides are based on extensive nationwide research using for 
example advertised selling prices, auction prices and actual selling prices. It is important to 
note that cars can often be sold for less than the advertised price. The approach taken by 
this service is that, in the absence of good evidence to the contrary, the motor trade guides 
are very likely to be accurate. 
So on balance I think the settlement figure paid to Mr and Mrs R was fair and reasonable 
and in line with the terms and conditions of their insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. So I wont be asking 
AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman