DRN-4285568
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited handled his claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a commercial motor insurance policy that was underwritten by Markerstudy. On 9 
September 2022 he made a claim after he was involved in an accident. 
Markerstudy accepted the claim and the vehicle was taken in for repairs. However the initial 
garage it was taken to couldnt carry out the repair so it had to be moved. It then took some 
time to determine if it was economical to repair the vehicle. 
Once a decision was made that it was repairable, the required parts were ordered but there 
was another delay due to their availability. The car wasnt returned until 21 November 2022. 
During this time Mr L was offered a courtesy vehicle initially for 14 days, and this was later 
extended for a further seven days. 
Once the car was returned Mr L made a complaint. He said the delays in returning his 
vehicle had been unacceptable and had caused him to lose out on earnings he would have 
made if hed had it. And he said the courtesy vehicle provided was much smaller than his 
own. He also said that when his vehicle was returned it had faults that werent there before 
the accident, which he thought Markerstudys agent had caused. 
Markerstudy upheld his complaint and offered him £150 compensation to apologise for some 
delays at the beginning of the claim. However it said he was only entitled to 14 days with a 
courtesy car under his policy, and it extended the time he had one, so it wasnt obliged to 
offer this for any more time. And it said the problems with his vehicle were pre-existing so 
not caused by the repairer. 
Unhappy with this, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said as well as the 
compensation Markerstudy should pay £760 loss of use for the time Mr L had been unable 
to carry out his normal business.
Mr L accepted the outcome. However Markerstudy didnt. It said most of the delays in the 
claim were due to the availability of the part and this was out of its control, so it shouldnt be 
held accountable for this. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls claim has gone on for far longer than I would have expected. From the point the 
vehicle was collected until it was returned was around two and a half months. From looking 
at the notes provided by Markerstudy, its repairer initially estimated the repair should take 8 
working days. So I can see it took far longer than it should have done for the repair that was 
needed. 
From reviewing the information on the file I can see the main reasons for these delays were 
as follows:
The vehicle was initially delivered to a garage that couldnt carry out the repair and 
needed to be relocated.
It took considerable time for the garage to determine if the vehicle was beyond 
economical repair or a total loss.
Once the repair was agreed there was around a five week delay due to availability of 
parts and labour in order for it to be completed. 
I note Markerstudys comments that the delay to the part was out of its control. And I 
understand there has been a shortage of parts which has made prompt repairs more difficult. 
However, Markerstudy would have been aware of the potential for this additional delay when 
the claim began. And it should have done more to ensure the claim was progressed as 
promptly as possible, especially considering a likely delay in obtaining the part later in the 
claim. As the vehicle was used for Mr Ls work, Markerstudy would have known the value of 
any time he was left without it. And this service would expect it to therefore act with urgency 
in order to ensure it was returned. Instead, from what Ive seen, it took a long time even 
getting to the stage where it agreed the repair to the vehicle. And appears to have taken no 
action to try and obtain a part more quickly. So I agree with our investigator that it should 
have done more to ensure Mr L wasnt left without a vehicle for a significant period.
Mr L was without his vehicle for a total of 73 days, around 10 weeks. And from reviewing the 
whole claim journey, I think this should have been a total of five weeks, taking into account 
delays to parts and labour. Our investigator has recommended Markerstudy pay loss of use 
for the vehicle for 38 days of the claim and, based on my above calculations, I agree this is 
fair in the circumstances. This service thinks that £20 a day for a commercial vehicle is a fair 
amount for loss of use. I therefore agree Markerstudy should pay 38 days loss of use at £20 
a day, making a total of £760 to compensate Mr L, on top of the £150 already offered to 
make up for the avoidable delays.
Ive also considered Mr Ls comments on the issues with his vehicle once it was returned to 
him. Markerstudy has provided comments from its expert concluding these were pre-existing 
issues. While I understand Mr L disagrees, he hasnt provided any expert evidence to 
support his position. So in the circumstances, Im more persuaded by the expert evidence 
and dont think Markerstudy are responsible for these issues.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited to pay him £760 compensation for loss of use of his vehicle, in addition to 
the £150 compensation already offered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman