DRN-3467818
The complaint
Mr E complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Wealthmasters Financial 
Management Ltd (Wealthmasters) in January 2018 to transfer the value of his safeguarded 
benefits in the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP).
Mr E is represented in this complaint by a third party (the Representative).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 28 February 2022. I set out the 
background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Es employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined 
benefits pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the 
BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that 
the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  this was 
approved by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata 
Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits pension scheme, the BSPS2, 
subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr E, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. 
The details of Mr Es safeguarded benefits were as follows:
He had accrued 15 years and 6 months qualifying service between                                           
3 September 2001 and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to his 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, his annual scheme pension was £8,374.81;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £26,948.36 plus interest at 
3% per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to his remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mr E at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £204,472.45 
which had been reduced by 5% (from £215,234.15) due to the BSPS being in deficit.
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS and PPF was 
as follows:
Scheme At age 57 
based on a 
full 
pensionAt age 57 based on 
a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 
based on a 
full 
pensionAt age 65 based on 
a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS £11,275 £7,868 plus tax-free 
cash of £52,458£18,366 £12,171 plus tax-
free cash of £81,144
PPF £10,148 £8,560.92 plus tax-
free cash of £57,073£14,088 £11,280 plus tax-
free cash of £75,202
Mr E was concerned what the announcement by Tata Steel meant for the security of his 
safeguarded benefits. He initially contacted another business (which I shall call Firm J) for 
advice. However, the pension transfer didnt go ahead at that time. Mr E then contacted 
Wealthmasters for advice.
In December 2017, Wealthmasters recorded the following information about Mr Es 
circumstances:
He was 33, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of 
about £35,000;
His marital status was single;
He and his long-term partner had a financially dependent daughter; 
His non-pension assets totalled £248,000 which included his and his partners 
residential home valued at £145,000, a second property valued at £100,000 and 
cash savings of about £3,000 [in another section of the fact find document this is 
recorded as £300];His liabilities totalled about £145,000 which was the combined, outstanding 
mortgages on his two properties and due to be repaid in 24 years time when he 
would be 57;
Through his employment with Tata Steel, he was entitled to a death in service lump 
sum benefit of four times his annual salary;
He had surplus monthly income of about £800 after paying all his regular bills and 
outgoings;
In addition to his safeguarded benefits, he was building up retirement benefits in the 
Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme and had been since April 2017  he 
and Tata Steel were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into his plan;
His preferred retirement age was age 57 in 2041. His target annual retirement 
income in 2018 terms was a minimum of £12,000 but he desired £20,000. His State 
pension age was stated as 67 [but it was 68 based on Mr Es date of birth]. 
Wealthmasters recommended that Mr E contact the Department of Work and 
Pensions to obtain a forecast of his estimated State pension; and
On a scale of risk profiles described as cautious, moderately cautious, moderate, 
moderately adventurous and adventurous, it was determined that he had a 
moderately adventurous risk profile. 
Mr Es needs and objectives
In its suitability report dated 9 January 2018, Wealthmasters recorded that Mr E had the 
following needs and objectives:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel. 
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 57 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
as you may retire or reduce your hours of work once youve repaid your mortgage 
and you would like to draw pension benefits to supplement your income until your 
reach state retirement age and receive your state pension.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60 (if 
any), you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of income and not have to 
take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make use of any personal tax 
allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your pension income. [the 
reference to 60 was a typo because Mr E wanted to retire early at 57]
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are not married, but you have a long term partner and you have daughter, and 
one of your main concerns is that should you die your partner is not eligible to 
receive any pension benefits and [Mr Es daughter] would only receive a reduced 
dependents pension from the British Steel Scheme.You stated that you will require circa £20,000 per annum (in todays terms) when you 
retire. On that basis based on your current level of provision you are not likely to 
achieve this amount from just the British Steel Pension Scheme pension rights. 
However, as you are now accruing benefits in the Aviva Tata Group Scheme, the 
benefits provided by this scheme will contribute to your required level of income. I 
would recommend that you consider make additional contributions to this pension as 
your budget allows, as you current pension provision may be insufficient for your 
needs and be insufficient to provide the desired level of income for the duration of 
your retirement. This is particularly relevant and important as you will foregoing the 
guaranteed benefits provided by the British Steel pension should elect to transfer 
these pension rights.
Critical yield 
Wealthmasters arranged for a TVAS report to be produced to calculate the following critical 
yield figures based on a transfer value of £204,472.45. The report showed the average 
annual investment return required by the SIPP to provide benefits of equal value to either the 
BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 57 based 
on a full pensionAt age 57 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 6.88% 5.73% 6.00% 5.10%
PPF 5.36% 5.16% 4.52% 4.33%
Wealthmasters only quoted the figure of 6.00% in its suitability report. It stated that a copy of 
the TVAS report was available to Mr E if he requested it.
Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr E
Wealthmasters set out in its suitability report its recommendation that Mr E transfer the value 
of his safeguarded benefits to a SIPP instead of either the BSPS2 or PPF for the following 
reasons:
The scheme [BSPS] is currently in deficit with insufficient funds to cover its liabilities.
The pension scheme trustees have offered a competitive Cash Equivalent Transfer 
Value. 
The Transfer Value Analysis* report we have conducted using our research tool, 
Selecta pension has confirmed that pre-retirement death benefits would be greater 
following a transfer to a money purchase scheme. 
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that post-retirement death 
benefits would be greater following a transfer to a money purchase scheme. 
The Transfer Value Analysis* report has confirmed that both pre and post retirement 
death benefits would be paid as a lump sum rather than an ongoing income which 
suits your personal requirements. 
Your personal circumstances would benefit from the flexibility provided by the 
pension freedom legislation at retirement. You require total flexibility with your pension arrangements both now and at 
retirement and a SIPP plan would meet both your current and ongoing requirements. 
You want to ensure that your partner and daughter receive the benefits from your 
plan in the event of your death by obtaining the best death benefit options available 
and this is one of your biggest concerns as your pension would be retained by the 
scheme upon your demise.
A SIPP would not penalise you or apply a reduction in benefits should elect to retire 
early and take pension benefits from age 57. 
*The Transfer Value Analysis report is generated by our defined benefits research tool, 
SelectaPension, this very technical document is available on request.
The suitability report set out the generic advantages and disadvantages of a pension transfer 
compared to the PPF and BSPS2 options. Wealthmasters recommended that Mr E invest 
the value of his SIPP in line with his moderately adventurous risk profile, as follows: 
Provider Investment type Amount
Brewin Dolphin Discretionary Fund Management 
(DFM) portfolio£156,000
Socit Gnrale Valu-Trac UK 
Defined Return Assets FundInvestment Fund £40,000
SIPP provider Cash £5,972
The costs associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, 
summarised as follows:
Initial charges
SIPP establishment fee  £372 (including VAT)
SIPP annual administration fee paid in advance  £660 (including VAT)
Non-standard asset SIPP fee  £600 (including VAT)
Adviser charge  £2,500
Suitability report  £999 (to be waived on acceptance and implementation of 
Wealthmasters recommendation)
Ongoing annual charges
SIPP annual administration fee  £660 (including VAT)
Adviser charge  0.5% 
Brewin Dolphin DFM charge  0.96% (including VAT)
Socit Gnrale Valu-Trac UK Defined Return Assets Fund  0.5% 
Mr E accepted Wealthmasters recommendation. The transfer value of £204,472.45 was 
later paid into a new SIPP in Mr Es name, to which immediate deductions were made in 
connection with the initial adviser charge of £2,500 and initial annual charges. 
This complaint
In August 2019, the Representative complained to Wealthmasters about the suitability of the 
pension transfer advice it gave to Mr E in January 2018. The Representative stated that 
Wealthmasters was responsible for several failings which resulted in it breaching the FCAs treating customers fairly regulatory principles and providing an unsuitable recommendation 
to Mr E. It stated that Wealthmasters was responsible for several failings, as follows: 
Failing to act in Mr Es best interests under COBS 2.1.1R and to provide a suitable 
personal recommendation in line with COBS 9;
Failing to manage conflicts of interests appropriately by virtue of the inherent bias 
arising from a contingent fee charging structure, which resulted in a fee payable to 
Wealthmasters for the initial pension transfer advice and recurring adviser fee 
income on an ongoing basis;
Failing to consider the FCAs default starting point that a pension transfer is not 
suitable or to consider the option of Mr E maintaining safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS or BSPS2;
Failing to ascertain Mr Es specific circumstances including his future retirement and 
cashflow needs; 
Failing to produce a suitability report for Mr E to enable him to understand the 
reasons why the pension transfer had been recommended;
Failing to disclose to Mr E the impact of adviser charges on the investment 
performance of the recommended SIPP;
Failing to consider the option to make future contributions to Mr Es Tata Steel 
defined contribution plan as part of his wider pension planning strategy; and
Failing to not only consider the suitability of the pension transfer itself but also the 
suitability of the underlying investments into which the BSPS transfer money was 
invested which exposed Mr Es retirement provision to unnecessary and 
inappropriate investment risks. It said that the Socit Gnrale Valu-Trac UK 
Defined Return Assets Fund was high risk and inappropriate for Mr E.
To put things right, the Representative requested that Wealthmasters pay redress to                  
Mr E.
Wealthmasters response to Mr Es complaint
Wealthmasters didnt uphold Mr Es complaint because it was satisfied that its advice to 
transfer to the SIPP was suitable and in line with the FCAs rules and guidance. It appointed 
a third party to provide, on its behalf, a substantial final response letter dated                        
8 October 2019 setting out its position. This can be summarised as follows:
FCA rules and guidance: It adhered to the FCAs rules and guidance in COBS 
2.1.1R and COBS 9 when it provided its personal recommendation to Mr E. This 
included following the guidance contained in the video on the FCAs website 
regarding pension transfers published in August 2019 which supported its 
recommendation provided in January 2018;
Conflicts of interests: It disagreed that a conflict of interest existed in its dealings 
with Mr E. It said that contingent charging had been used in financial services for 
decades. It charged Mr E a fee of £999 for providing a suitability report regardless of 
whether it advised him to transfer or not. It was only when Mr E decided to proceed 
with the pension transfer that the £999 fee was waived and the implementation fee of £2,500 was charged instead.  The ongoing adviser charge of 0.5% of the SIPP fund 
value was clearly disclosed to Mr E before he decided to accept the 
recommendation. The suitability report also informed Mr E of his right to cancel the 
on-going service agreement at any time without penalty. Had Mr E objected to the 
charges then it wouldve have expected him not to accept its recommendation;
BSPS2 and PPF options: It disagreed that maintaining benefits in the BSPS was an 
option for Mr E because that scheme had closed in March 2017. And as for the 
BSPS2 and PPF options, it was evident that Mr E had lost confidence in Tata Steel 
and was worried about the future prospects of his employer and the security of his 
safeguarded benefits  those were his main areas of concern. The BSPS2 and PPF 
options were discussed with Mr E but he rejected them because they didnt enable 
him to achieve his objectives and because it meant he wouldnt get a clean break. 
And it was widely accepted at the time that a transfer to the PPF wasnt the best 
option for most members. Mr E didnt want to suffer the reduction in benefits under 
the PPF and he had genuine concerns regarding the long-term viability of Tata Steel 
and what impact this might have on the BSPS2;
Advice process: It said that before it advised Mr E that he had been advised by       
Firm J to transfer to a SIPP  but the pension transfer couldnt be completed because 
the FCA withdrew Firm Js permissions to advise on pension transfers. So, it believed 
that by the time Mr E approached Wealthmasters, he wouldve already been through 
a fact find, risk profile and suitability assessment process through Firm J before the 
FCA intervened. The fact that Mr E then approached Wealthmasters suggested that 
he still wanted to transfer. Notwithstanding this point, it treated Mr E as a new client 
and started its advice process from scratch. It took care to make sure it provided 
information in plain English and walked him through every step so that he could 
make an informed decision. Its advice was tailored to his circumstances and 
objectives including his retirement income requirements. Mr E made clear that he 
had no intention of maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 because it didnt 
offer flexible income or death benefits in the format he wanted and because he was 
concerned about the long term viability of Tata Steel. It had considered the FCAs 
default position that a pension transfer is not suitable. But Mr E had made it clear that 
he didnt wish to retain safeguarded benefits. Mr E was told that hed relinquish the 
guarantees attached to his safeguarded benefits if he transferred. Overall, it 
remained satisfied that the SIPP met Mr Es objectives and that these wouldnt have 
been met by the BSPS2 or PPF;
Provision of a suitability report: It disagreed with the Representatives statement 
that Mr E didnt receive a suitability report. This was demonstrated by the fact that   
Mr E signed a declaration confirming he had read and agreed with the content of its 
suitability report dated 9 January 2018;
Charges: Contrary to the Representatives claim, the charges associated with the 
transaction  and the impact this would have on the SIPP investment performance  
were clearly disclosed in its suitability report given to Mr E;
Tata Steel defined contribution plan: It disagreed with the Representatives claim 
that it didnt consider Mr Es defined contribution plan as part of its recommendation. 
This was demonstrated by the fact that it had included the value of that plan in its 
income cashflow modelling and also made reference to it in its suitability report 
including a recommendation that Mr E remain a member of the plan and increase 
contributions to improve his retirement provision;
Mr Es risk profile and SIPP investments: Mr E's capacity for loss and attitude to risk was based on the information he provided which indicated that he was a 
moderately adventurous investor. It gave Mr E all the relevant risk warnings and 
talked him through the advantages and disadvantages associated with the pension 
transfer. He gave no indication that he didnt understand the recommendation or that 
he thought Wealthmasters had misunderstood his requirements. The investment 
strategy recommended by Wealthmasters was entirely appropriate taking into 
account Mr Es own priorities and objectives (flexibility and growth), his risk profile, 
capacity for loss and the fact that the investment time horizon was over 20 years until 
his desired retirement age of 57. It also said that the SIPP provider reserved the right 
to approve or reject the recommended investments to be held in Mr Es SIPP. The 
fact that the SIPP provider didnt reject the proposed investment selection was further 
proof that its investment recommendation was suitable;
Information about the changes to the BSPS: In the months leading up to its 
recommendation, the BSPS had provided Mr E with lots of information about the 
changes to the scheme and options available. Therefore, members that had limited 
knowledge or experience in relation to pension matters had the opportunity to gain a 
clearer understanding of the situation, familiarise themselves with the pros and cons 
of the options available before taking financial advice;
Situation surrounding the BSPS: It recognised that the situation surrounding Tata 
Steel and the BSPS meant it was a worrying time for individuals like Mr E. It was a 
unique situation with members forced to make swift and potentially life altering 
decisions. Unfortunately, this led to some unscrupulous advisers taking advantage by 
seeking out and marketing to inexperienced scheme members with the sole aim of 
transferring the value of their safeguarded benefits out of the BSPS. In contrast, it 
never specifically sought BSPS members with a view to advising them. Rather, they 
approached Wealthmasters;
Portrayal of Wealthmasters: It rejected the Representatives criticisms of 
Wealthmasters, portraying it as an unethical business only interested in receiving 
commissions and with no regard to Mr Es individual needs and requirements; 
Media attention: Given the media coverage concerning BSPS pension transfers, it 
believed that a blanket approach was being applied by the FCA and this service on 
such cases and that any adviser who recommended a BSPS transfer is automatically 
assumed to have given unsuitable advice. But it doesnt think this was fair and that 
each case should be assessed on its own merits which is exactly what it did when it 
advised Mr E by providing bespoke advice to achieve his objectives;
Financial loss: It didnt agree that Mr E had suffered a financial loss as claimed by 
the Representative because it had failed to produce any evidence or calculations to 
support this;
Competence of the Representative: It questioned whether the Representative was 
suitably qualified to assess the quality of its recommendation. It held this view 
because if a competent person had read the relevant paperwork, it would be 
apparent that its recommendation achieved Mr Es objectives and was therefore 
suitable. It also questioned whether the Representative had treated Mr E fairly 
because of the way in which it presented his complaint which it believed to be 
contrary to the Solicitors Regulation Authoritys guidelines; and
FCA file reviews: During 2017, the FCA began a focused review on the quality of 
pension transfer advice given to members of the BSPS. As part of this process, the 
FCA requested information from advisory businesses engaged in BSPS pension transfers including Wealthmasters. After reviewing its files, the FCA confirmed that 
no further information or remedial action was required. The FCA made no criticisms 
of Wealthmasters advice or processes and it retained its permission to advise on 
pension transfers. In its view, the lack of FCA action demonstrated that 
Wealthmasters advice process was robust resulting in suitable recommendations. 
This was borne out by the fact that as of January 2019, Wealthmasters had been 
approached by some 65 clients in respect of pension transfer advice and, of those, 
26 clients were advised to transfer and 39 cases were advised to maintain their 
safeguarded benefits. This demonstrated Wealthmasters professionalism, integrity 
and adherence to the FCA's rules and that it treated each client individually and 
advised them in line with their unique circumstances and requirements.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator thought the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to Mr E was 
unsuitable and that this complaint should therefore be upheld. His findings can be 
summarised as follows: 
Importance of safeguarded benefits: Mr Es safeguarded benefits amounted to              
15 years and 6 months pensionable service and so represented most of his 
retirement provision he had built up by that point in time. And so hed likely be heavily 
reliant on the benefits to provide secure retirement income. While he acknowledged 
that Mr E was building up additional retirement provision in his Tata Steel defined 
contribution pension plan and owned a second property which he planned to rent out, 
it was the case that there were no guarantees attached to those assets and that his 
safeguarded benefits would likely remain significant in meeting his retirement income 
need. This meant that he had limited capacity to absorb financial loss in connection 
with the value of his safeguarded benefits;
Mr Es concerns about Tata Steel, BSPS2 and PPF: He acknowledged that Mr E 
clearly wanted to do something about his safeguarded benefits  mainly because he 
had to. But that didnt mean he had to transfer or it was in his best long-term interests 
to do so. He appreciated that there was media attention and uncertainty about the 
future of Tata Steel and the BSPS2. But he thought that Wealthmasters ought to 
have done more to allay Mr Es misapprehensions about the security of his 
safeguarded benefits and explained that, in the worst case scenario, hed still receive 
90% of his pension entitlement if the BSPS2 ended up being transferred to the PPF;
Mr Es circumstances: Mr E was 33 and single but in a long-term relationship. This 
likely meant that the spouses pension offered by the BSPS wouldve been of less 
importance to him at the time. However, his circumstances, including marital status, 
may have changed over the substantial term until he retired which may have 
increased the relevance of the spouses pension. In addition, he had a very young 
daughter that was financially dependent on him and who wouldve been entitled to 
death benefits up to 18 (or 23 if she remained in full-time education). There wasnt 
any evidence that Wealthmasters had recorded Mr Es plans including whether he 
intended to get married or have more children to help support its recommendation 
that it was suitable to relinquish the spouses pension and dependents benefits;
Critical yield: The critical yield figures of 6.00% (at 65) and 6.88% (at 57) on the 
basis Mr E took all his benefits as income were likely unachievable. The required rate 
of investment growth to match the relinquished benefits was higher than the relevant 
discount rate of 4.7% per year for a 32-year investment time horizon to 65 published 
by this service and at the higher end of the FCA's projection rates for pensions. As a result, he concluded that the pension transfer would likely lead to Mr E receiving 
lower overall retirement benefits under the SIPP;
TVAS report: It appeared that the TVAS report didnt include all of the charges 
associated with the pension transfer, specifically the annual DFM charge 0.96% 
(including VAT) that applied to the £156,000 invested with Brewin Dolphin, which 
represented nearly 80% of the total SIPP fund value. As a result, he thought that the 
critical yield figures stated in the TVAS report and suitability report, and upon which 
Mr E made the decision to transfer, were understated;
Tata Steel defined contribution plan: Mr E was building up additional retirement 
provision in a defined contribution plan through his employment with Tata Steel. 
Despite his concerns about Tata Steel, the indications were that he planned to 
remain employed for the foreseeable future and therefore remain a member of the 
defined contribution plan;
Mr Es risk profile: Wealthmasters assessed Mr E as having a moderately 
adventurous risk profile. But our investigator questioned whether Mr E had a more 
cautious risk profile. This was because there were conflicting positions in the fact find 
document and suitability report regarding the impact which loss of money would have 
on Mr Es standard of living  the fact find document recorded that it wouldnt have an 
impact and that he wouldnt have to use additional resources to meet his income 
needs, but the suitability report recorded that Mr Es income need was unlikely to be 
met by the value of his safeguarded benefits and recommended that he pay 
additional contributions to meet this need. It also seemed odd that Mr E was 
recorded as being concerned about the security of his safeguarded benefits and the 
prospect that he would lose 10% of his income under the PPF but was apparently 
content to invest on a moderately adventurous risk basis in the SIPP where his 
money would be exposed a medium to high level of investment risk despite being an 
inexperienced investor. He acknowledged that Wealthmasters provided risk warnings 
to Mr E but commented that the disclosure of this didnt transform an unsuitable 
recommendation not a suitable one;
Mr Es early retirement objective: Wealthmasters didnt produce any comparative 
analysis to support its conclusion that early retirement under the BSPS2 or PPF 
wouldnt have been in Mr Es best interests or that retiring at 57 was indeed realistic. 
Our investigator stated that Mr E was only 33 at the time and most people would 
prefer to retire earlier. But with more than 24 years until his desired retirement age of 
57, during which time his marital status might change, transferring at that time for 
potential earlier access to benefits wasnt a reasonable action to take. If Mr E had 
transferred to the BSPS2 then he wouldve retained the right for a transfer out of that 
scheme at a later date, if then deemed suitable. Furthermore, he noted that Mr E was 
building up benefits in his Tata Steel defined contribution plan which couldve been 
used in the first instance to meet his retirement income need, thereby giving him time 
to delay the decision to draw his safeguarded benefits. Our investigator wasnt 
convinced that Mr E had a genuine need at that time for flexibility and control of his 
safeguarded benefits;
Mr Es death benefit objective: He wasnt convinced that Mr E had an overriding 
desire to secure improved death benefits under a SIPP at the cost of relinquishing his 
safeguarded benefits. This was because he was 33, recorded as being in good 
health and could therefore expect a life expectancy beyond 65. If provision of a death 
lump sum was an objective for Mr E then, through his employment with Tata Steel, 
he was entitled to a death in service lump sum benefit of four times his annual salary. Furthermore, if he required a higher death lump sum, he couldve obtained 
inexpensive life cover for the period until he could retire and revisit his transfer 
options at that time. He noted that under the BSPS2, Mr Es daughter would be 
entitled to death benefits until she reached 18 (or 23 in higher education) and 
potentially for his long-term partner in the event they got married. So, overall, he 
thought it likely that he may have wanted to retain the spouses and dependents 
benefits for a future potential need had he understood how valuable they were; and
Suitable advice: He concluded that suitable advice wouldve been for Mr E to 
transfer to the BSPS2 so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits. He thought it 
more likely than not that had Wealthmasters recommended the BSPS2 that Mr E 
wouldve accepted it. And that there was sufficient time available to provide notice to 
the BSPS of acceptance of the BSPS2 option.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that Wealthmasters carry out a redress 
calculation in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mr E transferred to 
the BSPS2 and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. In addition, he thought that 
the matter wouldve caused Mr E trouble and upset and that Wealthmasters should pay him 
£300 in respect of this.
Wealthmasters response to our investigators assessment
Mr E accepted our investigators assessment. But Wealthmasters didnt and, in its letter of 
12 February 2021, provided substantial comments in response. Some of these comments 
essentially repeated points made in its final response letter dated 8 October 2019. Its 
additional comments can be summarised, as follows:
FCA advice checker: In response to this complaint, it had completed the FCAs 
pension transfer advice checker that indicated its recommendation to Mr E was 
suitable. The advice checker included the statement, If you were always going to 
transfer, no matter what your adviser said about the disadvantages, it is less likely 
that you have a complaint". It stated that, before meeting Wealthmasters, Mr E had 
already been advised by Firm J to transfer and had gone as far as setting up a SIPP. 
So, in its opinion, he was always going to transfer regardless of what it told him. And 
to reflect the work that had already been carried out by Firm J, it only charged Mr E a 
fixed advice charge of £2,500 compared to its usual charge of £6,000;
Tata Steel defined contribution plan: It thought that our investigator had ignored 
the importance of Mr Es defined contribution plan in meeting his retirement income 
need. On the assumption Mr E remained a member of that plan until retirement, the 
projected fund value was greater than £650,000 based on an annual growth rate of 
5.8% over an investment time horizon of 31 years;
Critical yield figures: It stated that, in his assessment, our investigator had 
misquoted the critical yield figures applicable to Mr Es case (he quoted the figures 
on the basis that Mr E took all of his benefits as income). But Wealthmasters stated 
that the correct figures were lower  it was 5.10% at 65 and 5.73% at 57 on the basis 
that Mr E took a reduced pension and maximum tax-free cash. This meant that the 
financial viability of the transfer was likely more achievable than concluded by our 
investigator;
Fact finding: It provided excerpts from its fact find document and suitability report 
that showed Mr E wanted to retire as early as possible and that, since he had already taken advice from Firm J, was familiar with the process and made his mind up that he 
wanted to transfer to achieve his objectives;
BSPS2 option: It was aware of clients who transferred to the BSPS2 and 
subsequently sought new transfer values and were unhappy that these had been 
reduced by 20% compared to the transfer value offered by the BSPS, putting 
members at a significant disadvantage;
Disclosure of risks:  It provided excerpts from the guides it provided to Mr E that it 
said gave a balanced explanation of the advantages and disadvantages of 
transferring compared to maintaining his safeguarded benefits  so it was satisfied 
that he made the decision to transfer from an informed position; and
Mr Es risk profile: It reiterated that Mr Es moderately adventurous risk profile was 
based on information he provided when completing its risk profile questionnaire. He 
was prepared to accept risk with his money to achieve his objectives. It said that it 
warned Mr E in its suitability report that it was unlikely his desired annual retirement 
income need of £20,000 would be met by the value of his safeguarded benefits and 
that hed need to supplement this with his Tata Steel defined contribution pension 
plan, which had a projected fund value in excess of £650,000 based on an annual 
growth rate of 5.8%. It continued that the combined projected fund value of the 
recommended SIPP and Tata Steel defined contribution pension plan was projected 
to be £1,278,000 and wouldve easily met Mr Es retirement income need.
Our investigator considered Wealthmasters additional comments but wasnt persuaded to 
change his assessment of Mr Es complaint. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this 
complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. Having considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusion reached by 
our investigator and for much the same reasons. Ive set out below my reasons why.
The genesis of this complaint
Wealthmasters has rejected the Representatives criticisms of it. 
Im aware that in recent years the FCA identified that many steelworkers received unsuitable 
pension transfer advice and may have made poor financial choices, losing significant sums 
of money as a result. It therefore wrote to individuals, like Mr E, who transferred out of the 
BSPS to encourage them to revisit the advice that they received and to complain if they had 
concerns. The fact that Mr E made this complaint through his Representative doesnt mean 
its without merit, as I think is implied by Wealthmasters, or that hes acted unreasonably. 
Wealthmasters will, I hope, agree that, regardless of how his concerns materialised, Mr E is 
entitled to complain about its advice if hes concerned it was unsuitable.
Mr Es Representative Wealthmasters is unhappy about the way in which Mr Es Representative handled and 
presented his complaint. Its also concerned that the Representative isnt qualified to assess 
the suitability of its recommendation and that the basis of this complaint is therefore 
unfounded.
Id like to assure Wealthmasters that my decision will be based on the contemporaneous 
documentary evidence including the suitability report it provided to Mr E. And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, Ill reach my conclusions on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based 
on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. I hope this eases 
Wealthmasters concerns.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
As set out in the background above, Mr E initially sought pension transfer advice from               
Firm J. But Firm J was ultimately unable to complete the transaction because the FCA 
removed its permissions to advise on pension transfers. Mr E then contacted Wealthmasters 
for advice.
Theres no dispute that the pension transfer advice that Mr Es complained about is that 
which was provided by Wealthmasters. He made the decision to transfer based on 
Wealthmasters recommendation.
Im going to set out below my impartial view on the suitability of Wealthmasters 
recommendation. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this decision isnt to address 
every point raised by the parties. So, if I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its relevant or that it affects what I think is the right outcome. 
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
Wealthmasters advised Mr E but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions 
here.
The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice 
that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the 
case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the 
necessary information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this 
section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a 
fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a SIPP scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out 
of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients 
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and guidance, 
businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing defined 
benefits scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts safeguarded 
benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients best interests. 
The FCA requires businesses to consider alternative, viable options to achieve the clients 
objectives to enable them to maintain their safeguarded benefits.
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in its rules. In my view, 
borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or not  
dont meet the clearly requirement, as required by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude that 
alternative options couldve met Mr Es objectives and enabled him to maintain his 
safeguarded benefits, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs 
default position. Id also like to highlight that the FCA refers to contemporaneous evidence 
in its rules. This means that any further analysis carried out by Wealthmasters after its recommendation in response to this complaint is essentially irrelevant to my consideration of 
the advice given in 2018. In line with the FCAs rule, to determine suitability when the advice 
was given, I must base my decision on the evidence from the period leading up to and 
including January 2018 to decide whether Wealthmasters pension transfer recommendation 
was suitable and clearly in Mr E's best interests.
Mr Es situation
Mr Es situation at the time Wealthmasters advised him was somewhat unusual for the 
reasons set out in the background above. To briefly recap, after the BSPS closed in                    
March 2017, Mr E was given in October 2017 three options regarding his safeguarded 
benefits in that scheme:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to choose which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017. I 
recognise that Wealthmasters advised Mr E in January 2018 which was after the deadline. 
But I understand that there was still time up until March 2018 for Mr E to inform the BSPS of 
his decision.
Based on the above considerations and for the purposes of my decision, Ill work on the 
basis that Mr E had the three options listed above at the time Wealthmasters advised him in 
January 2018. Id like to acknowledge that the FCAs default position that advisers must start 
by assuming the existing defined benefits scheme is suitable didnt quite apply here. This is 
because maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS wasnt an option for Mr E. But he 
could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded benefits in that scheme or opt for the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF.
In line with the FCAs default position, its my view that Wealthmasters shouldve only 
considered a pension transfer to a SIPP if it could demonstrate, on the contemporaneous 
evidence, that it was clearly in Mr Es best interests rather than the alternative options to 
either maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or the guaranteed benefits offered by the 
PPF.
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of the pension transfer advice Wealthmasters gave to 
Mr E.
Critical yield, discount rate and risk profile
The TVAS rules applied at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr E. This required it to carry out 
a transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the proposed 
transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the invested 
transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered by the 
defined benefits scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that the value 
of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal 
retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the safeguarded benefits under defined 
benefits scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. 
The TVAS report isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But a TVAS report has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. So a TVAS report was 
likely useful for a client, like Mr E, that intended to use their safeguarded benefits towards achieving a minimum retirement income objective  in his case, it was recorded that he 
desired annual retirement income of £20,000 (in 2018 terms) from 57. As Ive explained 
below, its my opinion that Mr E would likely be reliant on the value of his safeguarded 
benefits towards achieving this income need.
The critical yield also gives an indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the 
ability to secure comparable benefits on the open market. So, its useful in that regard. 
Wealthmasters recommendation to Mr E was provided to him after the FCA gave 
instructions in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress 
for unsuitable DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount 
rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being 
upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate 
which I'm able to refer to and published by this service for the period before October 2017 
was 4.7% based on Mr E taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65 and 4.6% 
based on taking benefits at 57. Furthermore, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the 
time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 2% per year for 
the lower rate. 
In contrast, using the TVAS rules, Wealthmasters calculated the critical yield figures in the 
table below based on a transfer value of £204,472.45 being invested in a SIPP. There is 
conflicting information regarding the figures because our investigator quoted in his 
assessment figures that Wealthmasters later disputed. So Ive reviewed the TVAS report 
upon which the recommendation and suitability report was based. This showed that the 
average annual investment return required by the SIPP to provide benefits of equal value to 
either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 57 based 
on a full pensionAt age 57 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashAt age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced 
pension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS 6.88% 5.73% 6.00% 5.10%
PPF 5.36% 5.16% 4.52% 4.33%
Wealthmasters quoted the figure of 6.00% in its suitability report so Im satisfied that the 
TVAS report Ive reviewed is the same one upon which its recommendation was based. 
As pointed out by our investigator, it appears that the critical yield figures were understated. 
Ill explain why. The TVAS report included the following charges:
SIPP establishment fee of £310 +VAT
SIPP annual fee of £550pa +VAT
Annual investment charge of 0.5%
Initial adviser charge of £2,500
Ongoing annual adviser charge 0.5%
The TVAS report doesnt appear to include the annual DFM charge of 0.96% (including VAT) 
that applied to the £156,000 invested with Brewin Dolphin, which represented nearly 80% of 
the total SIPP fund value. Instead, the TVAS report assumed that an annual investment 
charge of 0.5% would apply to the entire SIPP fund value. The absence of the DFM charge in the TVAS report meant that the critical yield figures in the table above were understated, 
implying less investment growth was required to match the relinquished safeguarded 
benefits than was the case. I havent seen evidence that the difference between the 
assumed and actual investment charges and the impact it would have on the critical yield 
figures was explained to Mr E before he accepted the recommendation to transfer.
Our investigator mentioned this discrepancy in his assessment. But Wealthmasters didnt 
provide an explanation in response.
Had the additional DFM charge been included in the TVAS report, the critical yield figures for 
the BSPS wouldve been even higher than the discount rates of 4.6% and 4.7%, and the 
mid-growth rate of 5% stipulated by the FCA, implying that Mr E would need to accept a 
medium to high degree of investment risk in the SIPP just to match the relinquished 
safeguarded benefits, let alone exceed them. Wealthmasters assessed Mr E as being a 
moderately adventurous investor, suggesting that he was willing to accept a medium to high 
degree of investment risk with the value of his safeguarded benefits. But at the time he was 
33 and had limited investment knowledge and experience. I acknowledge that he owned an 
investment property. But Im not convinced this meant he was willing and able to tolerate the 
risks associated with the pension transfer.
Im also conscious of the fact that Mr E was building up additional retirement provision in his 
Tata Steel defined contribution plan and the expectation was that this would, over time, grow 
to a significant pot of money upon which he could rely to help meet his retirement income 
need from 57. But by transferring to a SIPP it meant that he would concentrate his retirement 
provision on a defined contribution basis where the benefits received arent guaranteed but 
instead based on investment performance. Had he maintained safeguarded rights in the 
BSPS2 or the PPF, if necessary, hed have received guaranteed income from that source 
and benefitted from a more diversified approach, reducing the overall risk in achieving his 
retirement income need. This blended approach  utilising both defined benefits and defined 
contribution pensions to meet Mr Es retirement income need  doesnt appear to have been 
considered by Wealthmasters, which Ill come on to later in my findings below.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mr E would receive 
benefits from the SIPP of a lower overall value than the alternative option of the BSPS2 and 
even the PPF, if required, at retirement. And it seems Wealthmasters agrees because in its 
suitability report it stated, We have discussed these figures in great detail to ensure you fully 
understand the implications of yield requirement in excess of 6% per annum and the 
likelihood your portfolio may not consistently reach this annual performance level (even after 
taking high investment risks) and therefore not provide you with a comparable annuity 
income at retirement. So, based on this alone, its my view that a transfer wasnt in Mr Es 
best financial interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, 
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or 
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there 
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
Wealthmasters rationale for transferring
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Wealthmasters undertook its fact finding for Mr E and then 
set out its assessment of his circumstances and objectives regarding his safeguarded 
benefits. The latter, as set out in the suitability report, may be summarised as follows:To retire early at 57 without reduction or penalty and to receive a desired annual 
income of £20,000 (in 2018 terms) with the ability to vary the level of income so that it 
could be withdrawn as tax-efficiently as possible; 
To provide a death lump sum benefit to his nominated beneficiaries rather than the 
50% spouses pension provided by the safeguarded benefits because he was 
unmarried; and
To control his safeguarded benefits due to concerns about his future employment 
with Tata Steel and to remove the risk that his benefits might be transferred to the 
PPF.
Therefore, Ive considered Mr Es objectives and concerns as stated in the three bullet points 
above. To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings.
Early retirement, flexibility and income objectives
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Es early retirement, 
flexibility and income needs:
As you intend to retire earlier than expected, you wish to have the facility to draw 
your pension benefits from age 57 without penalty. As you may require your pension 
income sooner than the British Steel pension schemes normal retirement age of 65, 
as you may retire or reduce your hours of work once youve repaid your mortgage 
and you would like to draw pension benefits to supplement your income until your 
reach state retirement age and receive your state pension.
As you cannot accurately predict how much of your income you will need at age 60 (if 
any), you would like to have the flexibility to vary your level of income and not have to 
take all of tax free cash in one go, as you would like to make use of any personal tax 
allowances to minimise the effect of income tax on your pension income. [the 
reference to 60 was a typo because Mr E wanted to retire early at 57]
You stated that you will require circa £20,000 per annum (in todays terms) when you 
retire. On that basis based on your current level of provision you are not likely to 
achieve this amount from just the British Steel Pension Scheme pension rights. 
However, as you are now accruing benefits in the Aviva Tata Group Scheme, the 
benefits provided by this scheme will contribute to your required level of income. I 
would recommend that you consider make additional contributions to this pension as 
your budget allows, as you current pension provision may be insufficient for your 
needs and be insufficient to provide the desired level of income for the duration of 
your retirement. This is particularly relevant and important as you will foregoing the 
guaranteed benefits provided by the British Steel pension should elect to transfer 
these pension rights.
Wealthmasters said that the flexibility to draw varying levels of income and tax-free cash at 
different points in time from 57 onwards without penalty wasnt available through the 
alternative options of the BSPS2 and PPF. And that the only way to achieve this objective 
was by transferring to a SIPP. It said that the lack of penalty free and flexible income under 
the BSPS2 and PPF rendered those options unsuitable.
Im concerned about the way in which Wealthmasters established Mr Es early retirement 
objective and annual income need of £20,000. I say this because its unclear to me how the 
figure of £20,000 was determined. It seems that £20,000 was a notional figure put forward by Mr E rather than being based on a proper analysis carried out by Wealthmasters. Theres 
no reference to this income need increasing in payment to counter the effects of inflation. 
Rather, it appears to be a fixed income requirement. This approach to determining a clients 
income need concerns me because if a clients objective is early retirement, then, in my 
view, its necessary to carry out adequate analysis to establish if this is achievable in order to 
support a recommendation to transfer. 
Many people might want to retire early. But this can only happen if they have the financial 
means to support themselves in retirement. Financial planning generally involves managing 
client expectations and a need for compromises. Mr E may have wanted to retire at 57 and 
be in receipt of annual income of £20,000. But it was for Wealthmasters to establish if this 
was feasible and to manage his expectations and, where applicable, help him modify his 
objectives to reflect the reality of his circumstances. Mr E was relying on Wealthmasters to 
provide expert advice in this regard.
In my view, where a client has a retirement income need at a specific age, the starting point 
is to establish a realistic target income based on the clients likely fixed outgoings, 
discretionary spending plans and excess income for saving. This information would then 
reveal the income required to cover the expected expenditure from the target retirement age. 
But in Mr Es case, Wealthmasters didnt establish how he intended to spend his time in 
retirement or what his expected expenditure was likely to be based on an analysis of his 
outgoings. Rather, the analysis was on the basis that he required a notional annual income 
of £20,000 in 2018 monetary terms. 
The further away from retirement an individual is, the harder it is to establish a realistic 
figure. And in Mr Es case, being 33 at the time of the advice, I think it wouldve been difficult 
to predict with a degree of certainty what his expected expenditure during retirement would 
be  and therefore what realistic level of income he would need from 57 onwards to cover 
this. With such a substantial time horizon until pension benefits could be accessed, it makes 
the case for a pension transfer  for the sake of achieving early retirement  more difficult to 
justify. It may well have been the case that a proper analysis showed that his income need 
was lower than £20,000 and couldve been comfortably met by the estimated income paid by 
the BSPS2 or PPF options in conjunction with his Tata Steel defined contribution plan and 
State pension  thereby rendering a pension transfer, and all the risks associated with that 
option, as unnecessary.
Wealthmasters didnt establish the estimated pension payable by Mr Es Tata Steel defined 
contribution plan or his estimated State pension. It needed to carry out an analysis of Mr Es 
estimated income streams from all sources during retirement so that it could determine what 
level of reliance would apply to his safeguarded benefits. If it was the case that the analysis 
showed that Mr E would be reliant on his safeguarded benefits to meet his income needs in 
retirement, then it would seriously weaken the case for a pension transfer. This is because, 
where there is a need to generate a minimum level of retirement income as there appears to 
be in Mr Es case, its difficult to justify relinquishing benefits that provide a guaranteed, 
minimum level of income in exchange for flexible income that doesnt have any guarantees. 
That is, unless the prospect of an alternatively secured guaranteed income, by way of a 
transfer and then annuity purchase, was likely to have produced a higher level of guaranteed 
income. But as illustrated above, and as also acknowledged by Wealthmasters, this wasnt 
the case here.
Could Mr E retire at 57?
Its my view that Mr Es expectations around his target retirement age and income need 
ought to have been better assessed and managed by Wealthmasters, for the reasons 
explained above.Things would become clearer the closer Mr E got to 57 and his plans could be modified in 
response to this, but at 33 I think it wouldve been difficult to predict with any reasonable 
degree of confidence that hed be able to retire at 57. Due to this uncertainty, I dont think it 
was necessary to consider a pension transfer for the sake of early retirement at that time 
when the option of maintaining safeguarded benefits under the BSPS2 was available, which 
Ill come on to shortly.
But if its accepted that Mr E would retire at 57 and required an annual income of £20,000 
from that point onwards, then I make the following observations, largely on the basis that 
Wealthmasters said no option other than the pension transfer wouldve enabled Mr E to 
retire at 57. But I disagree, as Ive explained below.
Mr E had been an active member of the Tata Steel defined contribution pension scheme 
since April 2017 after the BSPS had closed to further benefit accrual. He and Tata Steel 
were, in total, contributing 16% of his pensionable salary into that plan. Despite concerns 
about the security of his employment, it appears Mr E intended to continue working full-time 
for Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. Wealthmasters recommended that he remain a 
member of that scheme and suggested in its suitability report that he make additional 
contributions to it to help meet his retirement income need from 57. It included the estimated 
value of the plan in its cashflow modelling. So I think its fair to say that the value of Mr Es 
plan should be included in the analysis and what its estimated value would be on the basis 
that he remained an active member until his planned retirement at 57. 
I think Wealthmasters couldve reasonably expected that, based on Mr Es salary, 
contribution rate and 24-year time horizon, about £134,000 in contributions wouldve been 
invested in his plan by the time he reached 57. Considering likely investment growth over 
that time and increases in contributions linked to rises in Mr Es pensionable salary, I think 
its fair to say that the plan value would likely be higher than £134,000 at 57. Wealthmasters 
cashflow modelling at the time indicated that the value of the plan, based on an assumed 
annual net investment return of 5%, would be more than £200,000 so I think my assumption 
is a fair one. And I noted that in response to our investigators assessment, Wealthmasters 
stated that the projected fund value of the plan was greater than £650,000 based on an 
annual growth rate of 5.8% over an investment time horizon of 31 years.
Therefore, based on Wealthmasters own calculations, access to the defined contribution 
plan at 57 would likely cover Mr Es annual income need of £20,000 (or £160,000) for the 
eight-year period to his 65th birthday. Then, at 65, Mr E could take an unreduced pension 
income from either the BSPS2 or PPF. 
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available even allowing for the 10% reduction in the starting 
entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and deferred 
members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal retirement age of 
65. In my view, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for Mr E given that I think he could 
delay drawing benefits until 65, as Ive set out above, and that his marital status may have 
changed during the period before he retired. In terms of what income would be payable by 
the BSPS2 at 65, the following information is relevant.
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS and PPF was as 
follows:
Scheme At age 65 based on a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free cashBSPS £18,366 £12,171 plus tax-free cash of £81,144
PPF £14,088 £11,280 plus tax-free cash of £75,202
At the time Wealthmasters advised Mr E, it was generally known that at 65 the BSPS2 would 
pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS. So the income and tax-
free cash available under the BSPS2 likely fell somewhere between the figures above. I 
think Mr E would likely choose to commute some of his scheme pension in exchange for tax-
free cash. Based on the figures above, I think its fair to say that at 65 he could expect to 
receive from the BSPS2 a reduced pension of about £11,700 (which was broadly between 
£11,280 and £12,171) and tax-free cash of about £78,000 (which was broadly between 
£75,202 and £81,144). 
In my view, he could then use a combination of the annual scheme pension of £11,700 and 
either some of the tax-free cash of about £78,000 or any surplus money in his Tata Steel 
defined contribution plan over the three-year period from 65 to 68 to continue meeting the 
annual income need of £20,000 until he could start drawing his State pension. 
Given Mr Es employment history by 2018, and expectations for the future, I think its fair to 
say that hed be entitled to the full State pension at 68. The full State pension in 2017/18 was 
£8,296.60. It increases each year in line with changes to the CPI. So, in 2018 terms, Mr Es 
combined BSPS2 and State pension would provide total, combined annual income of about 
£20,000  which was broadly in line with his retirement income need. So, it seems probable, 
that his core income need couldve been met from 68 onwards by two guaranteed, 
escalating sources of income. The guaranteed escalation wouldve offered some protection 
against the effect of inflation. The alternative course of action recommended by 
Wealthmasters assumed a fixed annual income of £20,000 for the rest of Mr Es life with no 
account for the effect of inflation or the likelihood that hed need to increase his withdrawals 
to maintain his standard of living.
So, by adopting a blended approach of utilising his Tata Steel defined contribution plan, 
BSPS2 and State pension, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr E couldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and likely met his annual income need of £20,000 
between 57 and 68 and, based on Wealthmasters calculations, probably still retain surplus 
money in his defined contribution plan to meet any additional ad-hoc flexible income or lump 
sum needs. If receipt of the guaranteed and escalating BSPS2 and State pensions provided 
excess income over and above Mr Es income need, this couldve been reinvested for future 
use. Its my view that in the above scenario Mr E would be heavily reliant on the BSPS2 to 
meet his core income needs during his retirement from 65 onwards.
In the event Mr E left the employment of Tata Steel, I think its likely that hed find alternative 
employment, albeit perhaps outside of the steel industry, and, with the legal requirements of 
auto-enrolment, would build up additional defined contributions elsewhere over the period to 
57. So I think its fair to say that at 57 hed likely have access to significant defined 
contribution pension savings which could, in the first instance, be used to meet his income 
need for the eight-year period between 57 and 65.
This alternative course of action Ive set out suggests that Mr E couldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and potentially achieve his early retirement objective. I 
havent seen any evidence that Wealthmasters properly considered this alternative option 
and presented it in a fair and balanced way to Mr E.
The pension transfer was portrayed by Wealthmasters in its suitability report as allowing for 
early retirement without the penalties which would be applied to the BSPS2 or PPF if 
benefits were taken before 65. It stated, The British Steel Pension Scheme administrators 
have confirmed that they will apply a 25.2% total reduction in pension benefits if you retire at age 57 A SIPP would not penalise you or apply a reduction in benefits should elect to 
retire early and take pension benefits from age 57.It is important that you consider the 
effects of the early retirement penalties being applied by the British Steel the scheme, which 
would not be applied to the [provider] SIPP upon transfer.
The reality was of course that the SIPP wouldve had less time to grow if accessed before 65 
and any resulting income would need to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately 
explained to Mr E so he could understand that accessing the BSPS2, PPF or SIPP early 
would likely lead to reduced retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking 
benefits at 65.
In conclusion, its my view that Mr E made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding achieving his early retirement and income objective. Im not satisfied that 
Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in                   
Mr Es best interests to relinquish his safeguarded benefits because it failed to carry out 
adequate analysis of Mr E plans, expected expenditure in retirement and his other sources 
of retirement income to meet his income need. In the absence of this analysis, I think 
suitable advice wouldve been to recommend the BSPS2 because, while the income 
provided was inflexible, it was guaranteed and escalated in payment. The pension transfer 
option offered no guarantees and exposed Mr Es money to inflation, investment and 
longevity risk with no guarantees about how much income it would provide during his 
retirement.
Death benefit objective
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Es death benefits 
objective:
The death benefits offered by the British Steel pension are of key importance to you, 
as you are not married, but you have a long term partner and you have daughter, and 
one of your main concerns is that should you die your partner is not eligible to 
receive any pension benefits and [Mr Es daughter] would only receive a reduced 
dependents pension from the British Steel Scheme.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income 
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred 
under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the 
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the 
transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mr E could draw any benefits from 55 onwards, 
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to 
the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least 22 years.
But Mr E was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect normal life expectancy
into his late 70s or early 80s. The value of his safeguarded benefits represented a significant 
proportion of his retirement provision built up by that time. And as Ive concluded above, I 
think Mr E would be reliant on these benefits to meet his core income needs in retirement. 
Withdrawing money from the SIPP at 57 to help meet his recorded annual income need of 
£20,000 would likely mean that the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is 
more likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
In demonstrating that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in Mr Es best interests, 
Wealthmasters was required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options to meet 
his death lump sum objective. As Ive noted above, Mr E had the alternative option to 
maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 which offered a 50% spouses pension which may have been a valuable feature in the future if he married before retirement. 
Wealthmasters was required to consider this and any other viable options. It said that Mr E 
wanted to leave his partner and daughter a lump sum from his SIPP. But, as Ive noted 
above, its questionable as to what level of death lump sum benefit might be available from 
the SIPP based on his life expectancy and the uncertainty about what money might remain 
on his death bearing in mind his income need.
If it was a genuine objective for Mr E to provide a lump sum on his death, as asserted by 
Wealthmasters, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump 
sum while enabling him to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mr E had 
disposable income available every month after paying his bills which couldve been used to 
pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a defined term 
is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mr E given he was 33 and 
recorded as being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that Wealthmasters 
adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that 
Wealthmasters quantified Mr Es death lump sum need, over what term, how this might 
change over time, how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover 
quotes to him to enable him to make an informed decision.
Its my view that Mr E had no health issues at the time Wealthmasters advised him which 
might reasonably have prompted him to relinquish the guarantees attached to his own 
retirement income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for his partner and daughter. So 
Im not convinced there was any real merit in Mr E transferring to a SIPP at that time to 
provide a lump sum death benefit. Theres no real evidence that a death lump sum was 
required for Mr Es partner and daughter.
But, in any case, I note that through his employment, Mr E had life cover based on a multiple 
of four times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £140,000 would be paid in the event 
he died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his 
safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a SIPP. In addition, the value of his 
Tata Steel defined contribution plan would be paid as a lump sum to his nominated 
beneficiary(ies)  and Wealthmasters estimated the value of that plan to increase 
significantly over the term until Mr E retired. So, it seems to me that in the immediate future, 
certainly while Mr E remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum of at least £140,000 
would be paid on his death. This contrasted with his liabilities which totalled about £145,000. 
So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mr E remained 
employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled 
Wealthmasters and Mr E enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover 
so that he could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with Wealthmasters view that the 
only way to achieve Mr Es death benefits objective was by transferring to a SIPP at that 
time. 
Mr Es concerns about the PPF
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect 
members of defined benefit schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of 
benefits. The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on 
transfer to the PPF, Mr E could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, 
although this would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This 
contrasted with a SIPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits payable. In 
its 2016/17 annual report, publicly available at the time of Wealthmasters recommendation, 
the PPF stated that its overall financial position as at 31 March 2017 remained robust, with an increase in its surplus funds to £6.1bn. There wasnt any reason at that time to question 
the financial viability of the PPF to provide benefits in the future.
Wealthmasters stated the following in its suitability report regarding Mr Es objective to 
remove the risk that the value of his safeguarded benefits might ultimately be transferred to 
the PPF:
You are a deferred member of the British Steel Pension Scheme (Final Salary) and 
you wish to review the benefits options of the scheme and you are also concerned 
about the stability of the scheme going forward, in light of the proposed sale of the 
British Steel business by its parent company Tata Steel. 
We fully discussed the new Tata funded pension offering called the British Steel 
Pension 2, which is a defined benefits option. However, you stated you do not wish to 
consider this option as this scheme does not offer the flexibility you desire at 
retirement, death benefits for your family and more importantly you are concerned 
about the long term future of the scheme given the current outlook for the Tata 
business and the steel industry in the UK.
In other sections in the suitability report it stated that Mr E had grave concerns that all of 
his options relating to control and flexibility would disappear if the value of his safeguarded 
benefits were transferred to the PPF.
Had Wealthmasters advised Mr E to transfer to the BSPS2 he wouldve maintained 
safeguarded benefits and retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date, if then 
deemed suitable, when he could immediately access benefits and, crucially, determine his 
retirement income and lump sum needs with greater accuracy than at 33. A transfer to the 
BSPS2 wouldve also removed any immediate concerns Mr E had about the PPF. After all, 
the whole reason the BSPS2 was conceived was to provide a new long-term defined 
benefits scheme for former members of the BSPS. And if it was the case, in the future, that 
the BSPS2 was at risk of being transferred to the PPF, then I think it likely that, similarly to 
the BSPS, members would be given the opportunity to transfer out to a private plan before 
any transfer to the PPF occurred. So I dont think that there was any immediate concern 
about options disappearing for Mr E or that there was an urgency to transfer to a SIPP at 
that time to avoid a transfer to the PPF.
In my view, Mr E was reliant on Wealthmasters to provide a fair and balanced assessment of 
the PPF and to act in his best interests in this regard. This ought to have involved discussing 
with Mr E the features, risks and benefits of the PPF and allaying his misapprehensions. But 
I dont think Wealthmasters did this given the lack of reassuring comments in its suitability 
report and instead allowed him to continue to believe that the PPF was an outcome to avoid 
at all costs. 
If Mr E was apparently concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the 
PPF which would result in him losing 10% of his income, then I have to also question why he 
would accept the risk of transferring to a SIPP which exposed him to unlimited downside 
risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. It seems odd to me that Mr E 
wasnt prepared to accept the 10% reduction of his benefits under the PPF yet was 
apparently content to accept the unlimited downside risks associated with the pension 
transfer. This suggests to me that he didnt have the knowledge and experience to 
understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. He 
was relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert advice on this point. But I think it failed to do 
this.Its therefore my view that Wealthmasters failed to adequately allay Mr Es 
misapprehensions and that he therefore made the decision to transfer from an uninformed 
position regarding the PPF.
What should Wealthmasters have done  and would it have made a difference to Mr Es 
decision? 
During 2017, the situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to 
Tata Steel and the BSPS at the time Wealthmasters advised Mr E  and I fully acknowledge 
this. Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr E. But 
this only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice where a regulated advisory business 
was appointed. Any concerns Mr E had about the security of his benefits shouldve been 
addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the transaction, 
Wealthmasters.
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mr E. And that the value of his 
safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw fit. However, he was 
relying on Wealthmasters to provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into 
account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could then make an 
informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial 
advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or 
pension scheme, but, as the professional party, Wealthmasters was tasked with rationally 
addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available 
options.
Wealthmasters believes that a pension transfer was necessary at that time and that it fulfilled 
Mr Es wishes. Financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, its incumbent upon 
them to explain this  and why. 
I acknowledge that this may misrepresent Wealthmasters position, and it was referring to   
Mr Es expressed objectives, in that it wouldnt be up to an adviser or indeed this service to 
tell Mr E that he shouldnt have the aim of, for example, retiring early. That aside, however, it 
was nevertheless the responsibility of Wealthmasters to explain to Mr E why he didnt need 
to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable safeguarded benefits at that time 
and that consideration of a pension transfer was a decision that could be delayed until                     
his plans and expected expenditure in retirement could be determined with greater clarity 
than at 33.
As Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS2 entering the PPF, which 
wouldve ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, the indication was that the BSPS2 would 
be successfully implemented. Ive also thought very carefully about whether the service 
provided to Mr E was a balanced appraisal of the options available to him, coupled with a 
robust and candid discussion about his own concerns relating to the BSPS. 
Mr E, amongst many others in a similar position, may have been concerned by 
developments relating to his employment and the BSPS, but he was nevertheless entitled to 
an impartial review of his options. And looking at those options, one of the key recorded 
objectives  early retirement  was, in my view, likely achievable by maintaining safeguarded 
benefits in the BSPS2. For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of 
flexibility and control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2, 
and Im satisfied that Mr Es income need likely couldve been met by a blended and well-
planned access to his different types of accrued benefits by the time he came to retirement. The available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility 
wouldve been sufficiently compelling reasons for Mr E to relinquish valuable benefit 
guarantees  especially at 33. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mr Es concerns about the BSPS2 couldve 
been successfully allayed, such that he appreciated the important guaranteed benefits, even 
under the PPF, which he would be relinquishing for the sake of income flexibility which he 
simply didnt need or could in any case access in other ways, such as through his defined 
contribution plan, and a future pension which would be entirely dependent upon investment 
returns  rather than being partially dependent upon them as would otherwise have been the 
case through the defined contribution plan. 
Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS2, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the SIPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think these shouldve 
been a more important consideration than Mr Es own retirement guarantees which hed be 
relinquishing through the transfer. 
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
Notwithstanding my comments about the critical yield figures in Mr Es case likely being 
understated due to an incorrect assumption about the underlying investment charges, the 
critical yield was in any event higher than the discount rate and the mid band growth rate set 
out by the FCA, I think it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match 
the relinquished safeguarded benefits. This position is supported by Wealthmasters own 
analysis at the time. The justification for transferring was that it was nevertheless suitable in 
view of Mr Es stated objectives and the concerns about the BSPS2. And whilst I accept that 
the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider when weighing the suitability of a transfer, 
Im unconvinced by what Wealthmasters considers to have been the overriding justifications 
for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given above.
Wealthmasters view is that Mr E was intent on effecting the transfer, particularly since 
another business, Firm J, had advised him to transfer before it met him. But he was relying 
on Wealthmasters to provide expert advice and advise him what to do. I think the 
advantages of Mr E maintaining his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 coupled with his 
misapprehensions about the PPF being suitably assuaged, wouldve persuaded him to do 
just that.
Wealthmasters said that it gave Mr E all the necessary risk warnings and that he was 
required to take responsibility for his decision to transfer. I accept that Mr E was given risk 
warnings and was more likely than not capable of understanding them. But its important to 
note that disclosure isnt the same as suitability. If the recommendation to transfer was 
fundamentally unsuitable then the provision of risk warnings doesnt transform it into a 
suitable one. I dont disagree that properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be 
able to take that kind of responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer 
their safeguarded benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter involving 
many factors with which Mr E, as a layman, wouldnt have been familiar  hence his reliance 
on a professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced 
advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mr E simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility. 
His decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial 
viability of the BSPS2, but as Ive said above, this was due to the absence of a detailed and 
balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and prospects in the advice process. 
Taking account of Mr Es circumstances, risk profile, objectives and the guarantees provided 
by the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, my view is that Wealthmasters shouldve advised against the pension transfer. And I think that, had this happened, Mr E wouldve 
followed that advice and likely transferred to the BSPS2.
Conclusion
In its final response letter to this complaint, Wealthmasters said that the pension transfer 
was the only option available to meet Mr Es objectives. I disagree. For the reasons 
explained above, Im not satisfied Wealthmasters demonstrated, on the contemporaneous 
evidence, that it adequately considered alternative options to meet Mr Es early retirement or 
death benefits objectives or why it was clearly in his best interests to relinquish his 
safeguarded benefits to achieve these. Im also concerned that it appears to have 
misrepresented the true critical yield figures to match the relinquished benefits which meant 
Mr E made the decision to transfer from an uninformed position, further undermining the 
case for a pension transfer.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options to 
achieve Mr Es stated objectives, likely understatement of the true critical yield required to 
match the relinquished benefits, the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the value 
of Mr Es safeguarded benefits compared to the recommended pension transfer, exposing 
his significant retirement provision to more risk than he was likely willing and able to tolerate 
 all of which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 
19.1.6G, 19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this 
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair 
compensation. I asked both parties to this complaint to provide any further comments or 
evidence that they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. I gave the parties 
until 29 March 2022 to respond.
The Representatives response to my provisional decision 
Mr Es Representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. It said that the only 
query it had was the proposal for compensation to be paid into Mr Es SIPP rather than as a 
cash payment to him. It asked that I reconsider this and direct Wealthmasters to pay any 
compensation due as a cash payment to Mr E. 
Wealthmasters response to my provisional decision 
Following issuance of my provisional decision, our investigator contacted Wealthmasters on 
1 and 29 March 2022. It responded on 1 April 2022 to acknowledge receipt of my provisional 
decision. It said that it intended to provide a full response but was reliant on its legal advisers 
to draft the response and for its professional indemnity insurer to then approve it. Taking 
these factors into account, I agreed an extension to 19 April 2022 for its response. But it 
didnt respond by that date. Our investigator chased Wealthmasters on 6 May 2022 and told 
it that I planned to issue my final decision shortly based on the available evidence. It 
acknowledged receipt of that chaser but failed to give any indication when this service would 
receive its response or the reason for the continued delay.
Mr E and his Representative were kept up to date regarding Wealthmasters response to my 
provisional decision. They expressed their frustration about the delay and concern that 
Wealthmasters was unnecessarily delaying matters. 
As at the date of this final decision, Wealthmasters full response to my provisional decision 
hadnt been received by this service.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to be fair to both parties to this complaint. Wealthmasters has had since                                    
28 February 2022 to respond to my provisional decision, a period of about 10 weeks. 
Despite acknowledging receipt of my provisional decision, Wealthmasters didnt give our 
investigator any indication when this service will receive its response setting out any further 
comments or evidence that it wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. I 
consider that Ive treated Wealthmasters fairly by giving it about 10 weeks to respond. I dont 
think its appropriate to have an open-ended situation waiting for its response. So, in line with 
what Wealthmasters was told by our investigator on 6 May 2022, Ive decided to make a final 
decision based on the available evidence.
Since Wealthmasters didnt provide further comments or evidence for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional decision of 28 February 2022 to uphold Mr Es 
complaint. The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this 
final decision. 
I acknowledge the Representatives request that any compensation due be paid as a cash 
payment to Mr E rather than into his SIPP. However, my aim is to put Mr E, as closely as 
possible, into the position hed be in but for Wealthmasters unsuitable advice. And, given 
that reinstatement of his safeguarded benefits isnt possible, paying compensation into his 
SIPP most closely fits that requirement. But as noted below, if that isnt possible then the 
compensation should be paid to Mr E as a cash payment.
Putting things right
Wealthmasters should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how 
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is aligned with that of our investigator in that, had Mr E been properly advised, he
wouldve opted to transfer to the BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why.
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for
early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax free cash
entitlement were also more favourable than the BSPS2. And so, on the basis of prospective
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly
advised, Mr E wouldve envisaged accessing his Tata Steel defined contribution plan in the
first instance to make up any income shortfall in the period between 57 and 65 before
starting to take his safeguarded benefits, which could then have been deferred until normal
scheme retirement age of 65 (or as close as possible to 65, reducing the impact of an early
retirement reduction). In terms of death benefits, if it later became relevant for Mr E, under
the BPSP2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death,
and this would be calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken at retirement. And so its the 
benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes.
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation on the basis Mr E 
takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. Wealthmasters may wish to 
contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then 
be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the 
impact of leaving the BSPS on Mr Es SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss
should if possible be paid into Mr Es SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should
be paid directly to Mr E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mr Es likely income tax
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the future loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mr E within 90 days of the date
Wealthmasters receives notification of his acceptance of this final decision.
Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year
simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of
that 90 day period, that it takes Wealthmasters to pay Mr E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Wealthmasters to pay Mr E the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the 
compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Wealthmasters 
to pay Mr E any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation 
amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Wealthmasters to pay Mr E any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I recommend that 
Wealthmasters pays Mr E the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr E.
In addition, I agree with our investigator that this matter will have caused Mr E trouble and
upset. So I direct Wealthmasters to pay £300 to Mr E in respect of this.
If Mr E were to accept this final decision on the above basis, the determination and money
award would be binding on Wealthmasters. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on 
Wealthmasters. Further, its unlikely that Mr E could accept this final decision and go to court
to ask for the balance. Mr E may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept this final decision.
The loss assessment calculation must be provided to Mr Es Representative in an easy to
understand format.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Wealthmasters Financial Management Ltd must redress Mr E as Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman