DRN-3188270
The complaint
Mr R through a claims management company (CMC) has complained that ReAssure Life 
Limited (ReAssure) allowed him to transfer his personal pension to an overseas scheme 
when it shouldnt have done. He believes that ReAssure didnt carry out the required due 
diligence at the time and had it done so he would not have transferred.
What happened
Mr R held a personal pension with Old Mutual Wealth. This was subsequently taken over by 
ReAssure.
In May 2016 Mr R was cold called by a firm called Capital Facts Limited (CFL) and was 
offered a free review of his pension. CFL was a firm not authorised by the FCA. He was 
subsequently recommended to transfer the pension he held with ReAssure to the Harbour 
Retirement Scheme (the scheme) which was a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension 
Scheme (QROPS). The CMC hasnt provided the name of the firm involved in 
recommending the transfer to Mr R but when Mr R spoke to our investigator he said the firm 
was First Review Pension Services (FRPS).
ReAssure didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint so it was referred to this Service where it was 
assessed by one of our investigators. She was of the view the complaint should be upheld. 
ReAssure didnt provide TPRs scorpion leaflet /insert to Mr R making him aware of the risks 
of transferring his pension. She also felt ReAssure didnt carry out further detailed due 
diligence as required by TPR and other guidance at the time and so had failed to ensure the 
transfer was in Mr Rs best interests.
ReAssure didnt agree with the assessment. It responded by affirming it had carried out the 
correct due diligence checks at the time the transfer request was made. It also stated 
ReAssure should not be responsible for the funds once they were reinvested.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What principles, rules and guidance apply to this case?
As Mr Rs policy was a personal pension, ReAssure was regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA, preceded by the FSA) in its operation. Both The Pensions Regulator (TPR) 
and FSA had issued a number of warnings on their websites during 2011 and 2012 about 
the dangers of pension liberation  where consumers might be cold-called by unregulated 
advisers and encouraged to release cash from their pensions ahead of their intended 
retirement age. 
As a result, ReAssure would (or should) have been aware that there was a problem in the 
industry by February 2013, when TPR published new guidance (the Scorpion campaign) 
including an Action Pack for ceding schemes to carry out due diligence on pension transfers.
Although this Scorpion guidance had been directed at the occupational schemes which TPR 
regulates, it was endorsed by the FSA at the time  and it was the only such guidance until 
March 2015 when a broader piece of guidance initiated by the whole industry (TPR and FCA 
regulated firms) was published: the Pension Scams Industry Group (PSIG) Code of Practice 
(the Code). TPR began referring to the Code in its Action Pack. 
So, I consider ReAssure should already have been familiar with using the Scorpion guidance 
over the several years prior to Mr Rs transfer. This guidance didnt change significantly, 
apart from rebranding in July 2014 to make clear that the concern was about scams and not 
just liberation, and the main warning signs for both were largely the same. This meant that a 
ceding scheme that was confident that there wasnt a risk of liberation (and the associated 
tax charges), might not have been as sure that there was no risk of a scam.
The definition of a pension scam has been expanded in more recent years, but TPR broadly 
said in a press release at that time that this was the risk of consumers being scammed 
into moving their retirement savings into unregulated high-risk or bogus investments that 
could result in them losing their entire pension pot. It said these were often overseas and 
unregulated. Home visits from introducers, offers of free pension reviews, claims about 
legal loopholes and unusual investments like overseas property, storage units or biofuels 
are all used to fool members into thinking theyre being offered a legitimate pension transfer.
Im not going to set out the March 2015 update to TPRs Action Pack or Version 1 of the 
Code (March 2015) in full detail here as Im aware both parties should have copies of these.  
The Code stated that it didnt override existing regulatory guidance, but as its a relevant 
indication of good industry practice at the relevant time, Im going to take it into account 
alongside the Action Pack. I will summarise the key points of both below:
The Code made clear that A strong first signal of [a scam] would be a letter of 
authority requesting a company not authorised by FCA to obtain the required pension 
information; e.g. a transfer value, etc. Ive taken this into account.
Both the Action Pack and the Code said that a 2-page leaflet (or insert) produced by 
the Pensions Advisory Service (TPAS) should be sent directly to the policyholder 
whenever a transfer pack was requested, even by their representative. The March 
2015 leaflet included a pictorial highlighting the risks of cold-calling, pension access 
before age 55, overseas transfer of funds, convincing marketing of returns over 
8%pa, couriered paperwork and proposals for a single investment. Ive also taken 
this into account. 
The Action Pack included a checklist for businesses to follow if a policyholder was 
asking for a transfer, involving questions of the policyholder and receiving scheme. 
All the questions had equal prominence in the checklist. As each transfer presents 
different risks, its reasonable to say businesses had some discretion as to how much 
of the checklist to complete before being satisfied that the scam risk was sufficiently 
low to proceed.  The Code contained an initial analysis stage to better assist businesses in 
determining how far their enquiries should go. Two ways of fast tracking a transfer in 
this initial stage were where the receiving scheme was a member of an accepted 
club or group, or had been whitelisted after prior investigation.
Im not persuaded there are grounds here for a transfer to the Scheme to have been 
fast-tracked for either of those reasons.  In particular the risk of a scam inherent in a 
QROPS depends largely on what investments the consumer is making, so further 
questioning about the wider circumstances would always have been needed.
Beyond this, it was also possible under the Code for a transfer to have been fast-
tracked if it passed some initial consumer questions. These addressed the risk of 
liberation as well as scams, but as there is no issue in this complaint of Mr R 
receiving an incentive or accessing their pension early, Ive focused on the other 
scam questions. These were broadly the same in the checklist, so Ill summarise 
them as:
- Did the consumer receive an unsolicited offer of a pension review or investment 
opportunity by cold call, email or text?
- Were they told they could obtain a higher tax-free cash sum by transferring? (This 
question is only present in the Code)
- Were they promised a specific or guaranteed rate of return, particularly over 8%pa? 
(The checklist also highlights where the marketing material alludes to new or unusual 
investment techniques)
- Did the marketing or discussions about the investment involve transferring funds 
overseas?
The Action Pack used the same pictorial as the leaflet, adding two warning signs for 
the business to look out for. These signs werent specifically in the Codes initial 
analysis questions, but I think whether they were present in the transfer should have 
become apparent as a result of asking the questions above in any event:
Putting the transfer proceeds into a single investment: In most circumstances, 
financial advisers will suggest diversification of assets. 
Paperwork delivered to the consumer by courier that required an immediate 
signature. (This is also a question used at a later stage in the Code)
If this questioning process flagged up concerns about Mr Rs transfer, the Code 
clearly indicates that a transfer shouldnt have proceeded without full due diligence 
into the receiving scheme and what Mr R had been told about that scheme.
This is an indication of where the remaining questions in the checklist might need to 
be asked, in proportion to the risk present in the transfer request. PSIG itself said the 
further questions it provided in the Code were examples, alternatives could be used 
and there is flexibility in the evidence you require. Ill set out in my findings below 
what further enquiries I think were required.
If B considered there were material risks of a scam at the conclusion of its enquiries, 
the Action Pack expected it to contact the member to establish whether they 
understand the type of scheme theyll be transferring to and send them the pension 
scams booklet. And (for example) to direct them to TPAS to discuss the potential 
consequences of the transfer, including tax repercussions
Booklet here refers to a 7-page TPAS guide for consumers, which included the 
same pictorial as in the Action Pack (and the shorter factsheet); an example of an 
overseas property scam in a UK-based pension scheme; links to FCA online material 
about scams and checking if an adviser was regulated in the UK; and how to contact 
TPAS for guidance. 
If Im persuaded that ReAssure should have communicated further with Mr R about 
the risk of a scam, Im mindful that there are different ways of broadly meeting the 
same guidance  but I can look to the booklet as an indication of the type of message 
expected.In considering what ReAssure should have done above and in my findings below, Ive borne 
in mind that it was also bound to adhere to the ever-present Principles and Rules set out by 
the FSA/FCA. These include that it must take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively with adequate risk management systems; and must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ive also taken into account that regarding QROPS, the Code said in 2015: Reported scams 
include cloned QROPS, and promising extraordinary rates of return through unusual 
investment opportunities, typically offered via arrangements such as SIPPs and SSASs. It 
didnt set out detailed steps to follow for QROPS as a result: assuming the QROPS had not 
been cloned, the instruction was to follow the guidance similar to that for a SSAS.
The Action Pack also didnt specifically mention QROPS but said: Pension scam models are 
also changing. Many scammers are directing members to transfer into single member 
occupational schemes in an attempt to escape scrutiny. So, I think its fair to say that 
(genuine) QROPS werent thought of as the most likely route for pension scam activity in 
2015. 
Did ReAssure act in line with these rules and principles
ReAssure has said it can find no evidence that it sent the scorpion insert so has conceded it 
wasnt sent. But under TPR guidance sending the insert was a requirement of both the 
scorpion guidance and the Code at the time Mr R requested the transfer of his pension.
So there is a clear failing by ReAssure in this respect.
ReAssure did check the scheme was recognised by HMRC as a recognised overseas 
pension scheme and has provided the letters it sent to HMRC but when considering the 
guidance from the time issued by TPR  this wasnt enough and this wasnt all ReAssure had 
to do in relation to transfer requests in 2016.
There is no evidence ReAssure followed any of TPRs further guidance at the time which it 
should have done. 
The March 2015 scorpion action pack asked the transferring scheme to do the following:
If a member is asking for a scheme transfer use the checklist  (on the next page) to find out 
more about the receiving scheme and how the member can make the request.
The checklist asks transferring schemes to find out about how the member came to hear 
about the receiving scheme , the registration of the receiving scheme, what investments 
were going to be made, whether the pension was going to be accessed before the age of 55, 
amongst other things.
The action pack also points out how transferring schemes can address some of the items on 
the checklist and for many of the items the suggestion is to contact the member. The 
scorpion guidance goes on to then say:
Next steps if you have concerns:
Contact the member to establish whether they understand the type of scheme theyll be 
transferring to and send them the pension scams booklet available at www.pensions-
scams.com.
Speak to the member at risk  over the phone, via email or letter. It could help establish 
answers to more of the questions in the checklist.I know ReAssure knew the scheme was on HMRCs list of recognised overseas schemes 
and so it would have had some comfort the scheme had not been identified as posing a 
threat of liberation or a scam, but the risk of a scam shouldnt have been discounted without 
ReAssure getting further information irrespective of how credible the receiving scheme might 
have seemed. 
Also there is no guarantee the scheme wouldnt be removed from the list at any point. Also 
ReAssure would have known Mr R was moving his pension overseas despite still being a 
resident of the UK. This was unusual and so ReAssure should reasonably have suspected 
Mr R was being guided through the transfer process by unregulated entities rather than FCA 
regulated financial advisers. It would also have been a reasonable assumption that Mr Rs 
actions were designed to facilitate investing overseas  a common vehicle for scam activity. 
So ReAssure should still have had some concerns about what Mr R was intending to do. 
And had it contacted Mr R, as it should have done under TPR guidance, it would likely have 
also been concerned about M R being cold called by an unregulated firm.
So given this and with the FCA principals in mind I think ReAssure should reasonably have 
taken some of the next steps outlined in the scorpion guidance rather than just checking the 
status of the scheme with HMRC. 
As well as following TPR scorpion guidance ReAssure should also have followed the PSIG 
code; as mentioned above this worked alongside TPR guidance for pension transfer 
requests.
Under the Code, certain transfers wouldnt have needed further due diligence  for instance 
those coming from an accepted club (such as a public Sector Transfer Club). But because 
those conditions dont apply in this complaint ReAssure would have had to conduct further 
due diligence into Mr Rs transfer.
The QROPS section of the Code is relevant here. This included various steps for the 
transferring scheme to follow, including:
Checking HMRCs list of QROPS on the date of the transfer;
Verifying the transfer is being paid to the scheme on the HMRC list and not a scheme 
with a near-identical name (a clone scheme);
Establishing whether the QROPS was an occupational or personal pensions;
Considering the rationale for moving funds offshore;
Ensuring the transferring member has lodged a completed APSS263 form.
As already mentioned the receiving scheme was on the HMRC recognised list at the time of 
the transfer and I am satisfied payment was made to the scheme. I have also seen 
information about the scheme  its terms and conditions and documents explaining how the 
scheme worked, the overseas transfer forms and the APSS263. I cant be sure these were 
obtained by ReAssure but they exist, and I think Mr R received them. 
But as ReAssure didnt follow the guidance in the code I know it didnt consider the rationale 
for Mr R moving his funds abroad. Which in my view is an important failing.
Furthermore, the Codes initial analysis section suggests the transferring scheme contacts 
the member to answer a number of questions about their transfer and their reasons for 
requesting it:Will you be receiving any cash payment, bonus, commission or loan from the 
receiving scheme or its administrators as a result of transferring your benefits.
Did the receiving scheme/adviser or sales agent/representatives for the receiving 
scheme make the first contact (e.g. cold call). 
Have you been told you can access any part of your pension fund under the 
receiving scheme before the age of 55 other than on the grounds of ill health?
Have you been told you will be able to draw a higher tax free cash sum as a result of 
transferring?
Have you been told you will make a specific/guaranteed rate of return.
Have you been informed or an overseas investment opportunity?
A yes to any of these questions listed about would have been a potential warning sign. And 
clearly that applied here  Mr R was cold called and was transferring to an overseas fund.
These questions contained in the initial analysis section of the Code are the first step in 
analysing a transfer  it is not an optional extra that can be ignored depending upon the 
outcome of other due diligence. And whilst the Code leaves room for discretion it doesnt 
seem to me that the questions above could have been answered properly without contacting 
the member.
So contacting Mr R was always likely to be an important step for ReAssure to have taken at 
this point in time whatever comfort it feels it could have drawn from its other due diligence -
namely only checking the scheme was a QROPS. And this is a relevant consideration in 
terms of the outcome of the complaint because the act of contacting the member and asking 
questions about their transfer can in itself prompt a member to change their mind  the Code 
is very clear about this possibility:
it is possible that during the due diligence process the member will withdraw their transfer 
request. This could be because the awareness information you have supplied and the 
questions you have asked have led the member to realise that the transfer is possibly 
connected with a pension scam and it is not in their best interests to proceed.
In other words, ReAssure had to do more than just establish whether there was a risk of a 
scam and check the registration of the scheme. It had to engage further with any member to 
find out more behind the transfer and also it had be aware that its contact with the member 
could potentially help that member in his decision making.
Given its failure to contact Mr R and its failure to send the scorpion leaflet and follow the 
required TPR and PSIG guidance I am satisfied ReAssure has fallen short of all that was 
required of it at the time.
Would this have made a difference to Mr R?
As part of the investigation process we asked Mr R some questions about the transfer and 
the circumstances surrounding it. He has told us that:
He was cold called out of the blue by CFL and up to that point he wasnt looking to do 
anything with his pension. He was offered a free pension review and was led to 
believe this was a service being offered to clients of ReAssure. 
He confirmed he was visited at home and had to sign the paperwork while the 
adviser waited for it, so he felt somewhat under pressure and wasnt given a lot of 
time to read the paperwork he signed. He wasnt told he could access his pension 
early or offered any type of incentive. He wasnt in any financial difficulty at the time and had no need to access his pension 
before his original planned date. 
He was told he would have a diversified portfolio and he would make significantly 
more returns than if he left with pension with the business.
No mention was made of FRPS being regulated or not but because they were talking 
about his pension and advised him to transfer it he trusted that what they advised me 
him to do was best for him. 
Had they mentioned that they were not regulated he stated he would not have 
agreed to anything. 
No mention was made to him of the risks involved or anything about pension 
liberation or general pension scams. 
He didnt have doubts at the time and trusted the adviser as hes said he had no 
reason not to.
I have no reason to question these comments from Mr R and in fact I find them persuasive. 
Its also worth bearing in mind that the scheme made eight calls to ReAssure over a short 
period of time to get progress information on the transfer. I think this is excessive and 
should have been another trigger for ReAssure to undertake thorough due diligence.
In my view had ReAssure done so Mr R would have been concerned enough about the 
types of question ReAssure would have been asking him and the information he would 
have been provided with to have changed his mind about transferring his pension. There 
seems to be no reason for him to transfer his pension or access it early to warrant the 
transfer. And while he was attracted by the potential to increase the value of his pension 
I think understanding the risks around transferring his pension would have outweighed this 
and he would have made a different decision about the transfer.
In summary ReAssure didnt carry out the correct due diligence expected of it under TPR 
scorpion guidance. It failed to send out the scorpion leaflet that was designed to alert 
pensions savers like Mr R to the possibility they could be involved in a pensions scam. 
ReAssure also failed to engage further with Mr R or follow the PSIG guidance which it also 
should have done at the time. And I consider had Mr R received the leaflet he would have 
sought further guidance and not gone through with the transfer. Its also very likely that had 
ReAssure obtained better understanding of Mr Rs circumstances and the transfer it would 
have had concerns about the transfer and this would also have caused Mr R to not proceed 
with the transfer.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr R should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if ReAssure had treated him fairly.
The Harbour Pension Scheme only seems to have been used in order for Mr R to make an 
investment that I dont think he would have made but for ReAssures actions. So I think that 
Mr R would have remained in his pension plan with ReAssure and wouldnt have transferred 
to the Harbour Pension Scheme.
To compensate Mr R fairly, ReAssure must compare the actual value of the Harbour 
Pension Scheme with the notional value if it had remained with ReAssure. If the notional 
value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss.
Actual valueThis means the actual amount payable from the Harbour Pension Scheme at the date of 
my final decision.
My aim is to return Mr R to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
ReAssure. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily 
sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That may be the case with 
some of the investments in the Harbour Pension Scheme. Therefore as part of calculating 
compensation:
ReAssure should agree an amount with Harbour Pension Scheme as a commercial 
value for any illiquid investments, then pay the sum agreed to Harbour Pension 
Scheme plus any costs, and take ownership of those investments. The actual value 
used in the calculations should include anything ReAssure has paid to Harbour 
Pension Scheme for illiquid investments. 
Alternatively, if ReAssure is unable to buy those investments from Harbour Pension 
Scheme it must give them a nil value as part of determining the actual value. Its 
also fair that Mr R should not be disadvantaged while he is unable to close down 
the Harbour Pension Scheme and move to a potentially cheaper and more strongly 
regulated arrangement. So to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that 
ReAssure also covers five years worth of future administration fees at the current 
tariff for the Harbour Pension Scheme as part of the compensation, to allow a 
reasonable period of time for the Harbour Pension Scheme to be closed.
Any outstanding administration charges yet to be applied to the Harbour Pension Scheme 
must also be deducted from the actual value.
Incentives
An upward adjustment may be made to the actual value to allow for any indirect cash 
benefits (including loans) Mr R was paid as a result of the transfer and/or any payments 
the Harbour Pension Scheme made to him before the age of 55 that it should not have 
been allowed to make (together, the incentives). Mr R is expected to evidence to 
ReAssure the total amount of any such incentives paid as soon as possible, otherwise he 
will not be able to benefit from any reimbursement or indemnity regarding unauthorised 
payment charges caused specifically by these incentives (covered below).
Where it applies, this adjustment for incentives involves calculating what larger, gross 
amount would ordinarily need to have been withdrawn from the pension over the course of 
Mr Rs retirement, to leave him a net amount equal to the total incentives. Here, its 
reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 20% assuming he is 
entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. As a result his net benefits would equal 
85% of the gross benefits. So the total incentives (if any) should therefore be grossed-up 
by dividing them by 0.85, then they should be added to the actual value at the date of my 
final decision.
Notional value
This is the value of Mr Rs investment had it remained with ReAssure at the date of my final 
decision.
Any pension commencement lump sum or gross income payments Mr R received directly 
from the Harbour Pension Scheme which would have been permitted under the tax rules (and are therefore not being treated as incentives above), should be treated as notional 
withdrawals from ReAssure on the date(s) they were paid, so that they cease to take part in 
the calculation of notional value from those point(s) onwards. 
Payment of compensation
There doesnt appear to be any reason why Mr R needed a pension arrangement that wasnt 
privately held, administered by an established insurance company and under FCA 
regulation. So I dont think its appropriate for further compensation to be paid into the 
Harbour Pension Scheme.
ReAssure should reinstate Mr Rs pension plan as if its value on the date of my final decision 
was equal to the amount of any loss (and it performs thereafter in line with the funds Mr R 
was invested in). 
ReAssure shouldnt reinstate Mr Rs plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance  but my understanding is that it will be possible for it to reinstate a pension it 
formerly administered in order to rectify an administrative error that led to the transfer taking 
place. If ReAssure doesnt consider this is possible, it must explain why. 
If ReAssure is unable to reinstate Mr Rs pension and it is open to new business, it should 
set up a new plan for a value equal to the amount of any loss. The new plan should have 
features, costs and investment choices that are as close as possible to Mr Rs original 
pension. Its payment into the new plan should allow for the effect of charges and tax relief (if 
applicable). ReAssure shouldnt set up a new plan if it considers that its payment will be 
treated as a member contribution in excess of Mr Rs annual allowance, and  ReAssure is 
unable to process the amount in excess of the annual allowance. 
If its not possible to set up a new plan either, ReAssure must pay the amount of any loss 
direct to Mr R. But if this money had been in a pension, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore compensation paid in this way should be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
To make this reduction, its reasonable to assume that Mr R is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so a 75% portion of his pension would be taxed at 
20% assuming he is entitled to take the remaining 25% portion tax-free. This results in an 
overall reduction of 15%, which should be applied to the compensation amount if its paid 
direct to Mr R.
Reimbursement, indemnity and undertakings
In addition, ReAssure must reimburse Mr R for any unauthorised payment tax charges that 
have been levied against him personally by HMRC arising out of the funds transferred here. 
And it must also indemnify Mr R against any such charges arising in future as a result of 
unauthorised payments deemed to have been made before the date of my final decision.
The reimbursement or indemnity does not apply in respect of any incentives (as defined 
above) that Mr R does not promptly give details of (including their amounts) to ReAssure at 
the date of my final decision.
If illiquid investments are being left in the Harbour Pension Scheme, ReAssure may ask 
Mr R to provide an undertaking in return, to account to it for the net amount of any payment 
he may receive from those investments in future. ReAssure will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking. If ReAssure asks Mr R to provide this undertaking, payment of 
the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of ReAssure receiving Mr Rs 
acceptance of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment. 
This interest is not required if ReAssure is reinstating Mr Rs plan for the amount of the loss 
 as the reinstated sum should, by definition, mirror the performance after the date of my 
final decision of the funds in which Mr R was invested.
Details of the calculation must be provided to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I direct ReAssure Life Limited to pay Mr R the redress as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman