DRN-4215268
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the service provided by EFG Private Bank Limited (EFG) 
during the process of arranging ISA transfers to Mr and Mrs Hs new portfolio management 
service (whom Ill call S). They say EFG was responsible for delays during the transfer to S 
which caused them a great deal of financial anxiety due to the length of time taken to start 
the process and how long it took for the transfer to complete. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held three portfolios with EFG  one each in their own names and one 
together in joint names. The following timeline briefly summarises what happened when 
Mr and Mrs H decided to transfer their portfolios:
9 April 2022  EFG received an email from Mr H saying that the accounts were being 
transferred within the next 30 days.  
13 April 2022  Mr H emailed EFG to find out if the transfer process had started and who 
was dealing with it.
28 April 2022  EFG emailed Mr H to say it didnt have the necessary information to be able 
to transfer the accounts and requested details and instructions.
6 May 2022  Mr H told EFG that his new accounts were being opened and his portfolio 
manager would be in touch.
10 May 2022  in a letter to EFG, Mr and Mrs H set out their transfer request, identified S as 
their new provider and gave contact details.
11 May 2022  EFG received transfer instructions from S for the transfer of all three 
portfolios belonging to Mr and Mrs H. Holdings were to be transferred in specie (so in their 
currently held form, without the need to convert the asset to cash) together with any cash 
balances.  
12 May 2022  EFG initiated internal closure requests to start the transfer process for the 
three portfolios.
29 May 2022  EFG actioned the closure requests. 
1 June 2022  this is the date S said it first received contact back from EFG.
10 June 2022  EFG emailed Mr H and advised it was still waiting for re-registration details it 
needed from S and it chased for these again.
23 June 2022  EFGs Asset Transfer Team issued an update in relation the status of the 
transfers.
 All equities that S can receive will be settled by tomorrow.
 All funds that S can take have been instructed and we have started to see settlement.
14 July 2022 - EFG said a number of assets showed as awaiting settlement or were awaiting 
the counterparty to set up an account with their Fund Managers. 
15 July 2022  EFG chased S for updates on the remaining transfers.
From this point on, EFG said it continued to chase and told us that some of the reasons 
recorded for the ongoing delays it encountered included the following: 
REJECTED INSTRUCTION AS INCORRECT. E-MAILED (S) FOR CORRECT ONE
COUNTERPARTY SETTING UP THEIR ACCOUNT AT FUND MANAGER. 
AWAITING THEIR UPDATE
INSTRUCTION PENDING TOO LONG. EFG TO RE-INSTRUCT
Over the next few months, transfers continued to complete on a piecemeal basis. 
At the end of November 2022, EFG was able to tell Mr H that significant progress in the 
previous 10 days meant it had: completed 94.54% of the transfers and settled 87 out of 
90 lines. All that remains are 3 lines all related to the one fund .We are working closely 
with (S) to unlock this last transfer and then we will be complete
EFG said it had booked follow up calls with S to ensure progress continued.
12 December 2022  all the remaining transfers from EFG were finally completed.
EFG didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the way it had handled their transfer 
request. It said it didnt receive an actionable request from S until 11 May 2022, which had 
caused some confusion when it went direct to EFGs Asset Transfer Team. EFG said the 
problem was compounded by S sending a number of follow up emails. This resulted in EFG 
not sending all the necessary paperwork to S for another 12 working days, which EFG said 
wasnt an undue delay. EFG said it had acted diligently at all times to process 
Mr and Mrs Hs transfers in a timely manner and that there had been no detriment as this 
was an in specie transfer  in other words, Mr and Mrs H had remained invested throughout. 
As the transfers werent yet completed at the time, EFG assured Mr and Mrs H it would 
continue to liaise with S as it opened relevant accounts to receive the transferring assets.
Mr H didnt feel this was enough to resolve things and he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. He thought that EFG needed to do 
more to put things right and recommended it should pay Mr and Mrs H £150 compensation 
to reflect the trouble and upset caused by EFGs delay of around one month at the start of 
the process.
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and said the brevity of his report meant he had failed to 
focus on a number of stressful events during a period of eight months. In brief summary, 
Mr H mainly said that:
there were significant other ongoing issues with EFG which were costing him money 
and causing him great concern 
he felt EFG was disinterested in engaging with the transfer process and treating him 
with disdain 
his client relationship manager at EFG hadnt known about/temporarily lost a 
significant amount of money that was held in Mrs Hs account 
Mr Hs letter to EFGs chief executive hadnt produced a satisfactory response and 
EFG wasnt acknowledging his emailshe was concerned about how EFG was operating and worried there might be 
compliance issues
an amount of £150 didnt reflect the stress and time he had devoted to achieving a 
resolution and justice.  
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I can appreciate how strongly Mr H feels about this complaint. HMRC guidance says that 
none of these transfers should have taken longer than 30 calendar days. So its completely 
understandable that the length of time taken for these transfers all to complete was a source 
of such frustration and anxiety for Mr and Mrs H.
We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way we 
approach complaints. Its part of my role to identify and concentrate on the issues I need to 
address in order to reach a fair outcome. This means I wont necessarily mention everything 
Mr H has brought to my attention and Ive expressed some of his concerns in my own words. 
But I will comment on everything that makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Hs core complaint concerns the length of time it took to complete their transfer 
requests. So I must decide whether there is sufficient evidence to conclude that EFG failed 
to process a properly completed transfer within a fair and reasonable timescale. I will take 
into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best industry practice. I can tell 
EFG to pay compensation or take other steps to put things right if I am satisfied that EFG 
did something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably and this led to Mr H suffering some 
detriment and/or financial loss. 
Delays occurred at the outset when EFG was waiting to hear from S. Although Mr H had 
alerted EFG to the fact that he and his wife intended to transfer their portfolios, I think it was 
reasonable for EFG to expect to receive a transfer request and take things from there. The 
onus was on S as the acquiring business to start the transfer process and, in any event, 
EFG needed information Mr H didnt provide until 11 May 2022. But I think EFG could have 
explained this to Mr and Mrs H when they first got in touch about the transfer and, had this 
happened, its possible things might have moved on more quickly. 
Mr and Mrs H were entitled to expect EFG to handle the transfer request within a 
reasonable timescale. I've taken into account that EFG says the process initiated by S for 
the transfer was incorrect. But I dont think its reasonable for EFG to say that it wasnt 
responsible for delays arising as a result of S initially making contact with its Asset 
Transfer Team rather than Mr Hs client relationship manager. As far as I can see, all three 
initial letters from S to EFG (one for each portfolio to be transferred) included the name of 
Mr and Mrs Hs client relationship manager as addressee and only one was also 
addressed to the Transfer Team. In any event, there doesnt seem to me to have been 
any particular reason why the requests shouldnt have been promptly redirected internally 
by EFG to the appropriate person to be actioned. Its unsurprising that S was sending 
follow-up emails when it didnt get a prompt response and I dont consider that what EFG 
has said about this satisfactorily explains why it took EFG longer than I think its 
reasonable to expect to respond to the transfer requests. The time taken for this to happen 
was unduly excessive in my view.  
Whilst it turned out that this delay of 12 days or so didnt ultimately impact significantly on 
the overall time taken for the transfers to complete, it meant that, right from the start, Mr and Mrs H had reason to be concerned about the way EFG was dealing with the 
matter. I think this goes some way towards explaining why they quickly became 
increasingly anxious and frustrated as matters appeared to drag on. 
EFG blamed delays towards the end of May 2022 on the fact that S kept sending multiple 
emails which caused confusion, particularly as it said these didnt include enough detail for 
EFG to identify that they related to Mr and Mrs H. EFG also said it was short staffed 
around this time. I can understand all these things wouldve made it harder for EFG to 
handle the transfer effectively. But ultimately, Mr and Mrs H were entitled to expect a 
reasonable level of service and I consider that EFG fell short of providing this around this 
time. 
After this, its much less clear to me exactly why the transfers took so long to complete. 
EFG needed information from S that it says wasnt forthcoming - for instance, when it was 
waiting for re-registration details in mid-June. Some progress was being made throughout 
 in July a number of assets were showing as awaiting settlement and/or the next step 
was for S to set up an account and EFG chased things up with S around this time.
Mr H told us that in August 2022, Mrs H instructed EFG to sell 8 holdings as she was 
concerned about markets and some of the holdings that couldnt be transferred. I can 
completely understand why she did that. But I think its possible this change of instructions 
wouldve involved additional work and may have contributed to some further delay whilst 
these holdings were taken out of the transfer process and actioned differently.   
And Ive kept in mind that these were high value portfolios involving multiple transfers  not 
all of which were straightforward. For example, it appears that S was unable to accept all 
holdings, so this necessitated additional work and added extra time to the overall transfer 
process. Mr H was aware in October 2022 that there had been an issue settling some 
holdings with the custodian, which had delayed the transfer of that holding. In another 
instance, he held a restricted share class with EFG, so further work had been necessary to 
allow the transfer and switch of the restricted share class. 
I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve had a better understanding of why matters werent 
progressing as smoothly or as quickly as they hoped if only EFG had kept them better 
informed - as they were entitled to expect. Mr H became so upset by the ongoing delays in 
relation to the remaining transfers and the difficulty he was having obtaining information 
from EFG about what was happening that he wrote direct to the most senior person he 
could identify at EFG seeking his intervention. I dont think it was fair that Mr H had to 
chase EFG continually in order to find out information and get updates on progress that he 
was reasonably entitled to expect EFG to have provided. I find this poor communication 
over the many months it took the transfers to complete was a serious failing in terms of the 
customer service Mr and Mrs H were entitled to receive from EFG  irrespective of the fact 
that they were transferring their investment business elsewhere. 
Looked at overall, I find, on balance, that:
EFG could and should have done more on occasion to action Mr and Mrs Hs 
transfer requests on a timely basis, in particular in April 2022 when it was made 
aware of Mr and Mrs Hs transfer intentions and in May 2022 when S made contact
the reasons EFG put forward to explain the delays on its part dont mitigate its 
responsibility to provide a reasonable level of service to Mr and Mrs H, but there 
appear to have been wider reasons for the transfers taking so long overall and 
I havent been provided with enough information to be able to say that the main 
reason it took around 6 months for matters to complete was primarily due to error on the part of EFG or EFG having acted unfairly or unreasonably
EFG could and should have been clearer and more proactive in its communications 
with Mr and Mrs H and kept them better informed about what was happening 
during the transfer process.  
For these reasons, I am upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
So I have thought about what EFG needs to do to put things right. I havent seen any 
information showing that Mr and Mrs H suffered any loss of investment opportunity or that 
they are worse off in money terms due to the transfer not happening as quickly as it should 
have done. So Im not proposing to make any award for financial loss.
But I consider it is fair to make an award to reflect the frustration, stress and anxiety that 
Mr and Mrs H were caused as a direct result of the shortcomings I have identified on the 
part of EFG. 
I can understand why this was such an anxious time for Mr and Mrs H  there was a 
significant amount of money at stake, the transfers took a lot longer than they reasonably 
expected and they struggled throughout to find out information from EFG about what was 
happening. 
I think the £150 our investigator suggested is insufficient redress. I consider that £300 is 
fair compensation. 
I appreciate this amount falls a long way short of the amount Mr H feels is appropriate but 
its in line with the level of award this service would make in similar cases and I consider it 
fairly reflects the extent and impact on Mr and Mrs H of the delays and shortcomings in the 
service EFG provided to them on this occasion. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs H have raised several different complaint points over the course of this 
matter and when responding to the investigators view, I have dealt here just with what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of their complaint about the transfer 
delays. 
I believe Mr H is aware already that if he feels he has further cause for complaint (that goes 
beyond the scope of the original complaint he brought to us), then he should first tell EFG 
what his concerns are, so it has an opportunity to respond. 
If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a new complaint to this service. 
I cant award redress for any complaint where the financial business hasnt first been given a 
chance to put things right. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done helps Mr and Mrs H to understand how I've 
reached my conclusions and even though the outcome may not be all they hoped for, that 
they will at least feel that this complaint has been fully considered by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr H said he has nothing further to add and he will accept my decision.EFG has also 
accepted my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision. Given that Ive not received any further 
evidence or comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional decision.Putting things right
EFG should pay Mr and Mrs H £300 to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct EFG Private Bank Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H, as set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman