DRN-2742333
The complaint
Ms As complaint is about the way Crowdstacker Limited presented an investment 
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. She feels information about the company she 
invested in was misleading and Crowdstacker failed to perform sufficient due diligence 
on this.
What happened
At the time of Ms As complaint, Crowdstacker provided a loan-based crowdfunding facility 
through a peer-to-peer platform in which investors could lend to borrowers in return for 
interest. Crowdstacker provided information regarding investment opportunities by way of 
investment brochures which investors could read before selecting which loans they wanted 
to invest in.
Ms A invested a total of £1,500 into a loan with Company A through Crowdstackers 
platform in June and July 2018. The investment brochure explained the following:
Company A would use equity or subordinated debt to fund 30% of each 
acquisition, with the loaned money being used to fund the remaining 70% of the 
purchase price.
An independent valuation from a Royal Institution of Charted Surveyors 
(RICS) qualified surveyor would be obtained for each property prior to the 
purchase, confirming the value of the property at the time of purchase as well 
as the Expected Market Value (EMV) of the property.
The loan would also be used to fund 100% of the refurbishment costs of each 
pub, providing that the total amount of funding did not exceed 70% of the EMV 
of the pub after refurbishment.
The pubs would be operated by a separate company which Ill call 
Company B, which had some of the same key management as Company 
A.
Interest on the loan would be paid by way of cash flow generated from the 
operating pubs and lenders would be paid back their capital at the end of the 
three-year loan term by one or a combination of the following ways:
oThe accumulated profits of Company A
oSales proceeds of some or all of the property assets of Company A
oThe sale of the business of Company A
oRefinancing of the loans
The investment brochure also explained the following security would be in place for the loan:
Each freehold property purchased would be secured by way of a first ranking 
legal charge registered at the Land Registry.
The loan would be secured by way of a first ranking debenture over all the 
assets of Company A and the guarantor (one of Company As subsidiaries).
The guarantor, who was responsible for operating the non-tenanted pubs 
owned by Company A, would give a guarantee for Company As obligations 
under the loan.
Independent valuations would be carried out to ensure the Loan-to-Value 
(LTV) would not exceed 70% of the purchase price and EMV of the properties 
after refurbishment. Annual valuations on the portfolio of pubs would also be 
carried out and if the outstanding loan was greater than 70% of Company As 
assets then the shareholders could procure a further cash injection or sell 
property to realise any excess capital uplift. The loan would be secured by way 
of a first ranking debenture over all the assets of Company A and the guarantor 
(one of Company As subsidiaries).
The loan would be held in Company As bank account, where Crowdstacker 
would be a joint signatory allowing it to authorise the release of the funds for 
the purchase of each property.
In October 2018, Crowdstacker emailed investors to explain an additional review of 
Company A had been triggered as Company B had gone into administration. Following this, 
in March 2019, Crowdstacker wrote to investors to explain Company A had also been put 
into administration.
Ms A raised a complaint to Crowdstacker in September 2019 as she had a number of 
concerns regarding the information presented about Company A. In summary, Ms A 
said:
The information brochure was misleading as it overstated the extent of controls 
which would be applied by Crowdstacker meaning the loan was much riskier 
than it appeared. 
The administrators obtained a valuation for the pubs which valued them at £3 
million which significantly below the loan amount raised of £6.4 million. Based on 
this information, its impossible that the loan was used solely for purchasing and 
refurbishing pubs, as set out in the information brochure.
She didnt believe that any checks were carried out to ensure the average 
purchase price (in addition to the LTV) and average refurbishment costs of the 
pubs were in line with the figures provided in the information brochure. 
She didnt believe that regular checks on Company As bank account were made 
by Crowdstacker, including checking substantial withdrawals, to ensure this 
remained in line with the information given to investors.
Crowdstacker didnt uphold Ms As complaint. In summary, it said:
Its not responsible for the decision making of the directors operating Company A 
and risk warnings were given to Ms A regarding not lending unless she was 
willing to entrust all aspects of conducting the business to the directors and senior 
management of Company A.
It signed off each purchase involving independent solicitors to ensure 
independent valuations were in place and the required equity/sub-ordinated debt 
was advanced by the directors for each purchase  as outlined in the information 
brochure. 
The most recent valuations were conducted on a red book basis. 
The valuations were potentially lower because the actual revenue of the 
refurbished and opened pubs was less than expected given the amount that was 
spent on the refurbishment work, as well as refurbishment carried out and not 
completed on three of the pubs which werent opened at the time of Company A 
going into administration.
Whilst the information brochure stated the typical costs expected for each pub, 
the  independent valuation reports indicated a fair purchase price and it ensured the LTVs of 70% were never exceeded. 
Ms A remained unhappy and so she brought her complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into Ms As complaint, but he didnt uphold it. In summary, he said:
Its not his or Crowdstackers role to assess whether the loan to Company A 
was a good investment opportunity or not, he just needed to be satisfied it 
was promoted fairly and clearly. 
He didnt think the information brochure suggested that it was a risk-free  
investment opportunity and it made it clear that the pub industry was 
struggling.
He was satisfied Crowdstacker did take out the security detailed in the 
investment brochure.
The pub valuations were conducted by RICS qualified surveyors and so it was fair 
for Crowdstacker to rely on these.
There was no commitment made to ensure that the purchase price of pubs would 
be in line with the average price given in the information brochure. He said the 
property market could be extremely volatile so he didnt think it would be unusual 
for the average value to change over time. Nor was there a commitment to spend 
the average amount referred to in the investment brochure on refurbishment 
costs. 
He also hadnt seen any evidence to suggest the LTV exceeded 70%.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators opinion. She agreed that the investment opportunity 
carried some risk, however, she felt the level of risk was misleading due to inconstancies in 
the promotion about the use of funds. Ms A said the How it Works section of the 
investment brochure said the money lent would be used to purchase and refurbish pubs, 
but the Two Minute FAQs section also included operating the freehold pubs as use of the 
funds. She said this understated the level of risk and overstated the level of security for the 
loan by not highlighting that an unspecified proportion of the loan would be used to cover 
running costs.
The investigator considered Ms As additional point but didnt change his opinion. He said 
that whilst he agreed the investment brochure could have been potentially a bit clearer on 
how the funds were going to be used, he said it wasnt his role to punish Crowdstacker for 
not producing the perfect document. Instead he had assessed the investment brochure and 
determined that it fulfilled the regulatory obligations to be fair, clear and not misleading.
As Ms A remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the
investigator. I understand this will come as a disappointment to Ms A, but Ill explain my
reasons why.
Id first like to reassure Ms A that Ive read all the correspondence in the file when deciding 
the complaint. I hope she wont take it as a discourtesy that I havent commented on every 
specific point raised but its not because Ive failed to take it into account. Ive instead 
concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the key factors in reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome.Ms A has raised concerns regarding the information Crowdstacker presented to her about 
the opportunity to invest in a loan with Company A. The key issues centre around the risk of 
loan, the security in place (including the valuations of the purchased pubs and the LTV) as 
well as the actual use of the funds.
Regulatory framework
When considering the above points, Ive taken into account the regulatory obligations placed 
upon Crowdstacker at the time. The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Principles for 
Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all authorised firms are 
required to comply with. The most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading.
Crowdstacker is also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the FCAs 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As promotional material, Crowdstacker needed to satisfy 
itself that the campaign itself was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be 
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A, 
it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the promotional material itself, Crowdstacker would need to carry out reasonable
checks. What these reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given
case, is something which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary
according to the particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to
provide a set of tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
Taking the above into account, Ive firstly considered the risk warnings provided to Ms A at 
the time of investing in Company A.
Risk WarningsI understand Ms A accepts that there was some risk involved in investing in the loan with 
Company A but says Crowdstacker overstated the extent of controls which would be applied, 
meaning the loan was much riskier than it appeared. I will address the extent of the controls 
later in my decision but before doing so I will cover what risk warnings were given to Ms A at 
the time of investing. 
Ive looked at the information displayed on Crowdstackers website at the time she invested 
and can confirm that the following risk warning was prominent on the website:
Your capital is at risk if you lend to businesses.
This included a link to Crowdstackers full risk warning which explained the following:
1. Loss of capital
All investment in businesses involves an element of risk. Past performance of any 
company, including those with good cash flow and a healthy balance sheet, may not 
be a good guide to their successful performance in the future. Lending to businesses 
can lead to a loss of your capital as a lender if they default. You should not lend more 
money than you can afford to lose.
So Im satisfied the general risk warning presented to Ms A on Crowdstackers website made 
it clear that any investment into loans through the platform could result in a loss of capital.  
Crowdstacker also provided a Risk Factors section in the investment brochure for the loan 
which clearly highlighted the specific risks involved. The risk warning included the following 
regarding the future performance of Company A:
No assurances can be given as to the future performance of [Company A] and 
whether [Company A] will continue to achieve its business objectives. Prospective 
lenders should be aware when considering the past performance of [Company A]  
that past performance is not necessarily indicative of future results. There can be no 
guarantee that [Company A] will be profitable in the future. Performance depends on 
many facts including the value of the assets, market conditions, any related costs, 
the timing and management of the transactions, all of which may change over time.
There was also a risk warning provided regarding the security for the loan to Company A:
If [Company A] were to become insolvent, there is a risk that (a) the [Company A] 
Loans will not be repaid in part or in full and (b) some or all of the interest due on the 
[Company A] Loans will not be paid in part or in full. There is no certainty or 
guarantee that any realisation of assets or the security will be sufficient to enable 
[Company A] or as the case may be, the Security Trustee, to repay the [Company A] 
Loans or [Company A] liabilities thereunder.
Taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied Crowdstacker made it clear that whilst 
security may be in place for the loan it may not be sufficient to cover any outstanding loan 
repayments. 
Security and LTVs
Its clear Ms A feels strongly that Crowdstacker gave her misleading information about the 
extent of the controls which were in place for loan to Company A. As Ive explained above, 
Crowdstacker had a regulatory obligation to ensure that the promotion of the loan to 
Company A was fair, clear and not misleading, which included ensuring that any security 
mentioned in the investment brochure was actually in place.Page 13 of the investment brochure explained what security would be in place for the loan to 
Company A. The first security listed was legal charges over property:
Your Loan will be secured on each property purchased by the Company, by way of a 
first ranking legal charge over the property, in favour of the Security Trustee on 
behalf of the Lenders. Each charge will be registered with the Land Registry.
I can confirm that Ive seen copies of the title deeds for each property showing that a first 
ranking legal charge was registered for each property with the HM Land Registry.
The investment brochure also explained the following regarding the portfolio of pubs being 
independently valued:
An independent valuation of the properties will be carried out to establish the value 
prior to purchase and an Expected Market Value after refurbishment. The Loan to 
Value (LTV) will not exceed 70% of the purchase price on purchase and 70% of the 
Expected Market Value of the properties after refurbishment.
A further independent valuation on the portfolio of pubs will be carried out on an 
annual basis. If the outstanding Loan is greater than 70% of the Company assets, the 
shareholders take the following actions:
Shareholders may procure that further cash is injected into the Company by issuing 
shares or subordinated debt. Company may choose to sell a property in order to 
realise any excess capital uplift.
Ive seen copies of the independent valuations carried out on each property. Having done 
so, Im satisfied that these were sufficiently detailed to establish the prices prior to purchase 
and the expected market values. I can also confirm they were carried out by a RICS qualified 
surveyor and so it was fair for Crowdstacker to rely on these to ensure Company A met the 
LTV requirements. Ive also seen evidence of the amount Company A contributed to the 
purchases, as well as completion statements which support that the LTV requirements were 
adhered to. 
As part of Crowdstackers further review of Company A, following Company B being put into 
administration, it decided to also seek its own independent red-book valuations for the pubs 
to determine a prudent value for the pubs. The valuation was delivered at the beginning of 
December 2018 and showed a shortfall in values. Some of the shortfall was attributed to the 
closed pubs, as three of the seven pubs were still in the process of being refurbished prior to 
Company A going into administration. Ive seen no evidence which shows that any of the 
pubs that remained under refurbishment had breached the individual property conditions as 
set out in the investment brochure.
Crowdstacker has also explained that four pubs had been opened by the end of 2017. From 
the information supplied, the pubs, on balance at that point, had traded well and had been in 
line with forecasts post-refurbishment at the time under Company As ownership. One of the 
pubs had traded ahead of target and this led to a revised valuation. Two of the pubs, were 
being refurbished and were recorded on the balance sheet at cost and not at EMV. 
Crowdstacker has also confirmed that an additional £1,400,000 raised was spent on the 
continued refurbishment of these two pubs, as well as purchasing an additional pub. This 
additional pub was purchased for around £446,000 with an EMV of £1,600,000 post 
refurbishment. Again, I can confirm that Ive seen evidence which supports these valuations.
Ms A has questioned whether Crowdstacker ensured each purchase price and amount spent on refurbishment was in line with the average prices provided in the investment brochure. 
However, I dont agree that Crowdstacker had such an obligation to do so. The investment 
brochure simply outlined the average spend for purchasing and refurbishing a pub, but it 
didnt make any guarantees that this would be how much Company A would spend. The only 
guarantee around this was the LTV and EMV measures which Ive explained were followed. 
On a final note on the security in place for the loan, I can confirm that Ive also seen 
evidence to show that Crowdstacker were appointed as a security trustee over Company A 
and its guarantor, and that a first ranking debenture was registered over the assets of both. 
And that Ive seen evidence that Company As subsidiary gave Crowdstacker a guarantee of 
Company As obligations under the loan. 
Use of the funds
Ms A has pointed to inconsistencies in the promotion about the use of funds. Ive thought 
carefully about Ms As comments and whilst I acknowledge the promotion could have 
made it clearer that the use of the funds would include operating the pubs, I dont think this 
renders the entire promotion misleading. As an example, the investment brochure  
included details of the operational costs in the Two Minute FAQs section, rather than being 
mentioned earlier and being more prominent. However, Im conscious that it was Ms As 
decision to proceed with the investment and that decision ought to have been made on the 
basis of all the information presented to her in the investment brochure. Also, this use of 
the funds wasnt buried away in the investment brochure, rather it was under the clear 
question of How will your loan be used? in the Two Minute FAQs section. Whilst I agree it 
could have also been mentioned under the How it works page, there is a point on that 
page which explains that the pubs would be managed using Company As extensive 
knowledge and experience to reduce operational costs, increase probability and optimise 
the portfolios asset value. As such, I think its reasonable to assume that there would be 
some costs associated with managing the pubs and so including these costs in the use of 
the loan allowed Company A the flexibility to draw on the funds in order to increase profits 
in order to repay the loan. 
Even if I were to make the finding that the promotion was misleading due to Crowdstacker 
not making it clear that funds could be used for operational costs, I dont think it would 
have made a difference to Ms As investment decision. I say this Ms A was happy to 
proceed with the investment despite it already being a high-risk investment. I think Ms A 
ought to have known the investment opportunity was high-risk not only because of the risk 
warning provided to her but also due to the very nature of the opportunity.  She was being 
asked to lend money to a business in a sector which the investment brochure described as 
having gone through a structural decline. Also, the opportunity was incredibly speculative 
with no information given regarding which pubs Company A would be purchasing and 
refurbishing or even how many would be included. 
I understand Ms A says any costs associated with operating the pubs were unsecured as 
the LTV and EMV conditions were in place to preserve the value of the security of the 
properties only. Whilst I appreciate her point here, Ive also considered that the investment 
brochure made it clear that the security may not be enough to cover the loan repayments 
in the event of Company A defaulting. Furthermore, the investment brochure gave a 
number of ways in which investors could be repaid the funds borrowed and so it was clear 
to Ms A that the chance of her being repaid wasnt based solely on the security of the 
pubs. 
Finally, Ms A has also raised concerns regarding the checks Crowdstacker made on 
Company As withdrawals from the joint signatory bank account. However, the investment 
brochure only mentioned that Crowdstacker would sign off the release of the funds for the purchase of each property and no guarantees were made regarding withdrawals for 
operational cost purposes.
So having considered everything, Im not persuaded Crowdstacker has acted unfairly in the 
way in which it presented the investment opportunity to lend to Company A and Im satisfied 
it performed sufficient due diligence before doing so and throughout the loan term.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022. 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman