DRN-3237186
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about the way in which Metro Bank PLC dealt with their application 
to port their mortgage to a new property. They want Metro Bank to pay their costs in relation 
to the application process and refund the early repayment charge (ERC) that they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F had a buy-to-let mortgage with Metro Bank. They redeemed the mortgage on 
23 March 2021, and incurred an ERC as they were still within the fixed product period.
Under the terms of the mortgage they had 90 days from the date of redemption to port the 
mortgage. This gave them until 21 June 2021.
Mr F contacted Metro Bank about the porting process on 27 May 2021. He wasnt happy 
with the service he received and asked his broker to take matters forward. But the broker 
needed to re-register with Metro Bank in order to do this. 
Once the re-registration was complete the broker started the application process on the 
system on 2 June. And he emailed the post contract variation team on 3 June. Unfortunately, 
some of the necessary information was outstanding and this was provided on 4 June. After 
this information had been reviewed by Metro Bank it then told the broker that there wouldnt 
be time to process the application within the 90 day window. 
Mr Fs broker went on to submit a new mortgage application on 14 June 2021 but this was 
rejected by Metro Bank on the basis that the application didnt meet its lending criteria.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Metro Bank. But Metro Bank didnt uphold their complaint. It 
said, in summary, that although the level of service which was provided during the process 
could have been better, it was unable to uphold the complaint and refund the ERC charge as 
the proposed scenario would not have been acceptable to it irrespective of the extremely 
short timescale to complete the purchase transaction. 
Our investigator didnt think that Metro Bank needed to take any further action. He said, in 
summary:
A business is entitled to decide its own lending criteria. So he didnt think that Metro 
Bank had done anything wrong by declining the application on the basis that the 
property didnt meet its criteria;
He appreciated that Mr F had explained that had he known sooner he would have 
arranged for the mortgage to be ported to another property instead. But he couldnt 
see that Metro Bank were aware of the details until 14 June 2021, and by that point it 
was already too late to be able to port the mortgage to another property.
Mr and Mrs F dont agree with our investigators view. They say that they should have been 
provided with information about Metro Banks lending criteria when Mr F first contacted it 
about porting, and would then have been able to port the mortgage onto one of their other 
properties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs F have raised a number of issues. Ive considered everything they have to say 
but have concentrated my decision on those issues which I find to be central to their 
complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments Ive not been persuaded to 
uphold this complaint. I realise that this will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs F so Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage product switch offer issued to Mr and Mrs F in December 
2018. This provides, at clause 10, that an ERC applies in the first five years of the mortgage. 
And it goes on to say:
What happens if you move house?
If you move house you may be able to transfer the amount outstanding on your mortgage to 
another property provided you still meet our lending criteria at the time of application for the 
new mortgage.
Fees may be charged when you transfer your mortgage. If you transfer your mortgage within 
the period when Early Repayment Charges are applied, you may not have to pay the Early 
Repayment Charges if the purchase of the new property completes within 30 days of the 
discharge of this mortgage and the new mortgage is for an amount equal to or more than 
this mortgage. For full details of terms and conditions please see section 18 of the Mortgage 
Conditions headed Transferring your Loan to another property.
Ive also seen a copy of the latest Mortgage Conditions. These extend the term to complete 
the purchase of the new property to 90 days. And they reaffirm that the new mortgage will be 
subject to Metro Banks normal lending criteria at the time.
When Metro Bank considered Mr and Mrs Fs application it was identified that it didnt fit 
Metro Banks lending criteria due to the level of rent. I appreciate that Mr F says that this 
means that Metro Banks lending criteria had changed since they took out the previous 
mortgage but, as set out above, the product switch offer and mortgage conditions made it 
clear that the new mortgage would be subject to Metro Banks normal lending criteria at the 
time of the port. 
As our investigator has explained, Metro Bank is entitled to set its own lending criteria. And 
Im not persuaded that it made an error when it applied its criteria in this case.
I understand that Mr F is dissatisfied with the service he received when he called Metro 
Bank. He has explained that this is why he asked his broker to deal with the application. And 
Metro Bank has accepted that the level of service it provided could have been better. But Im 
not persuaded that the level of service affected the outcome of Mr Fs application. I say this 
as, even if Mr F had been informed sooner that the new property did not satisfy the lending 
criteria, this would have been too close to the 90 days deadline for him realistically to find 
another property. 
I note that Mr and Mrs F say that they could have ported the mortgage to another property 
that they already owned if they had been told about the lending criteria sooner. But, although 
Ive considered what they have to say I dont agree. The mortgage conditions make it clear that the port must be to a new property, and Metro Bank has confirmed it would not have 
agreed to port the mortgage to an existing property. So this does not change my decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman