DRN-1090109
 
The complaint
Mr L complains that American Express Services Europe Limited ("Amex") will not refund his 
credit balance after he closed his credit card account.  
What happened
In April 2019 Mr L requested to close his credit card account with Amex. He asked for the 
credit balance of £2,267.65 to be refunded. He said Amex asked him for proof of payment of 
the balance which Mr L thought didn't make sense. He said he had made cumulative 
payments to his Amex card so his account was in credit. He said the balance due back to 
him was the net amount after he'd used his card. He said Amex calculates his account 
balance so it must have received the payments or it would not have updated his account 
statement. He provided Amex with copies of his credit card account statement evidencing a 
record of the credit which was paid into his account. 
Mr L said Amex continued to ask for evidence of the bank account transaction used to make 
the payment into the account. He thought this was inefficient and illogical and was making it 
difficult for him to access his money. He said he did not have access to the bank account 
statements. 
In its final response Amex said it required  proof of original payment, such as a copy of Mr 
L's bank statement showing the payment, including sort code and account number, in order 
to validate the refund. On receipt of this it said it would refund within 10 days. 
Mr L wasn't satisfied, so he brought his complaint to this service. Mr L said that for some 
reason Amex didn't understand that its own records show that it received the payment in 
question and adjusted his account balance accordingly. He said Amex control the account 
balance yet it is asking him to prove it's accurate and this indicates Amex is making it difficult 
for him to get his credit refund. He said this is a poor business practice. Mr L asked this 
service to stop Amex from doing such activity and penalise it. He understood this to by the 
type of activity that the Financial Ombudsman service was created to look into and stop. 
The investigator did not believe Amex had done anything wrong. She said the process Amex 
has to follow when processing a credit balance refund requires proof of payment. She also 
said that per its terms and conditions Mr L's bank keeps copies of bank statements for six 
years.
Mr L was not satisfied with this so asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He said he 
didn't understand how Amex can say it received his payments as per his credit card 
statements but then months later ask him to jump through hoops to provide evidence he 
made the payment.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr L but, having done so, I won't be asking Amex to do anything further. 
I can understand Mr L's strength of feeling on this matter. He hasn't received money which is 
his, following the closure of his credit card account. I can certainly see why Mr L would be 
frustrated with this. 
It's important to clarify my role in this complaint. Mr L believes we have the power to stop a 
business doing certain practises and to penalise it. 
My role is to resolve individual disputes between businesses and consumers. We have the 
power to get things put right in the individual cases referred to us if we decide a business 
has got it wrong and a consumer has lost out as a result. In this case it's to establish if Amex 
has applied its process fairly and reasonably.
Unfortunately it's not my role to investigate Amex's processes. We are not the regulator, and 
we don't have a role in reviewing the adequacy of a business's processes, in this case the 
process for Amex to refund credit balances. I also dont have the power to tell a business 
how it should treat all consumers, how it develops its internal policies or to penalise a 
business. These are matters for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
Regulated financial businesses such as Amex are obligated to have risk based processes in 
place to comply with anti money laundering regulations and legislation. I consider it 
reasonable for those processes to cover any balance refunds. I've seen a copy of Amex's 
process for refunding credit balances. For requests of £500 and above it requires the card 
member to provide proof of payment, such as a copy of their bank statement. The statement 
must show the card member's name, sort code and account number. Mr L's refund due 
is £2,267.65 because, he said, he would typically put credit on his card accounts to avoid 
him missing a payment, especially with charge cards. 
It's clear Amex doesn't need evidence of receiving the money as, as Mr L has pointed out, 
this is evidenced by its own statements. But Amex is requesting the corresponding evidence 
to establish where the money came from. This is its process and I'm satisfied Amex has 
applied it appropriately. I'm also satisfied Amex is not rejecting the payment ever happened.
Mr L has said Amex received a payment of £2,999 in July 2018. He said it was fine with this 
overpayment and was so for many months. He said by its own actions Amex has clearly 
accepted that payment was properly received and there were no issues with the 
overpayment or credit balance. He said it was only after he closed the account that it took 
the position that there were issues with the credit balance. He said had he not cancelled the 
account Amex would have continued to use the credit balance until it was used up. So he 
concluded this behaviour to be odd and suspicious. 
I do understand what Mr L is saying and I agree that had he kept the account open Amex 
would have continued to use the balance. But the process that Amex has followed is one it 
has in place for when a card holder specifically requests a refund. While I do understand this 
process may be inconvenient to Mr L I'm satisfied it has been applied fairly, and I won't be 
asking Amex to do anything further. 
As the investigator has pointed out, Mr L's bank should be able to provide the statements he 
needs as the transaction occurred less than six years ago. Mr L has said if Amex cannot adequately deal with a such a transaction from a longstanding 
client then this should be a matter for the FCA. If Mr L continues to be concerned about 
Amex's processes he is free to take these concerns to the FCA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman