DRN-4374175
The complaint
Mrs O complains about her second charge mortgage (secured loan) with Blemain Finance 
Limited trading as Together. Shes unhappy that she still owes more than she borrowed and 
that the loan is not on track to be repaid by the end of the term. 
What happened
Mrs O took out her loan in 2008, borrowing around £13,000 over a term of 25 years. Over 
the years the loan has fallen into arrears from time to time.
In 2022, Mrs O asked for a redemption figure, and Blemain told her shed need to repay 
around £16,000 to clear the loan balance. Mrs O didnt think that was right and complained. 
She said shed had the loan for 14 years and paid over £20,000, so she didnt understand 
how the balance could still be more than shed borrowed in the first place.
Blemain said that periods of past arrears had led to fees and charges being added to the 
loan balance. And when Mrs O had missed payments, that meant the balance hadnt 
reduced as expected  and in turn that meant more interest had been charged. That extra 
interest also increased the balance, which meant further interest was applied. The result of 
the fees and charges, and the additional interest, meant that the overall balance was 
considerably higher than it ought to have been at this stage of the loan. As things stood, 
Mrs O was not on track to repay the loan by the end of the term.
Charges added to the loan included arrears and legal fees, including for a suspended 
possession order in 2014. There were also charges for buildings insurance because, 
Blemain said, Mrs O hadnt shown it that shed insured the property herself.
Mrs O brought her complaint to us. She said the monthly payments were increasing and 
were more expensive than her main mortgage. She said she found the situation very 
stressful  which was made worse by being given contradictory information at different 
times. She didnt think it was fair that her loan balance had increased so much or that 
Blemain wouldnt agree to reduce it so she could pay it off.
Blemain said it had responded to a similar complaint in 2018. And it said that in any event it 
didnt agree to us looking at anything that had happened more than six years before Mrs O 
first complained. 
Our investigator said that we couldnt consider anything covered in the 2018 final response, 
as that hadnt been referred to us within the six month time limit. He said that meant we 
could consider the fairness of the outstanding balance itself from 4 April 2018 onwards. He 
also said that we could consider whether Blemain had fairly communicated with Mrs O about 
her balance for the six years leading up to her complaint. He said Blemain had offered £500 
compensation for failing to communicate with her about the outstanding balance, particularly 
before 2018, which he thought was a fair offer.
Mrs O didnt agree with the investigator and asked that an ombudsman review her 
complaint. Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision, in which I said we cant consider 
anything about the balance of the loan before 4 April 2018, though we can consider how 
Blemain communicated with Mrs O since April 2016. Having set that out, what follows is my 
decision on the parts of Mrs Os complaint we can consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive said that I cant consider the fairness of anything that happened with Mrs Os loan 
balance before April 2018. But nevertheless its important to understand what actually did 
happen, as context for the part of the complaint I can consider.
Mrs O was in arrears from 2011 to 2017. In 2013 Blemain took court action and obtained a 
suspended possession order. When payments are missed, that means the loan balance 
doesnt reduce as fast as it was planned to do. And, because the balance is higher, that 
means more interest is charged too  which also increases the balance. As a result, the 
monthly payments agreed at the start are no longer enough to clear the loan balance by the 
end of the term.
As part of the suspended possession order in 2013, Mrs O agreed to pay around £15 per 
month to clear the arrears. Blemain didnt ask Mrs O to pay any more than the regular 
monthly payment plus the extra amount set out in the court order. She largely stuck to that  
with occasional missed payments  and the loan was out of arrears by 2017. But the effect 
of the period of arrears, and the additional interest that resulted, was that the balance was 
higher than it would otherwise have been. 
By the time I can consider, from 2018 onwards, Mrs O had cleared the arrears. She was 
reducing the balance month by month, though the loan was not on track to be repaid in full 
by the end of the term.
In situations like that, I would expect a lender to keep an account under review, including 
checking whether the borrower could repay the loan by the end of the term or within a 
reasonable time, and if not whether there were any additional measures it could offer to 
assist in bringing things back on track.
Mrs O was in touch with Blemain on a few occasions after April 2018. In December 2018 she 
asked for a redemption statement. She said she was looking to re-mortgage and repay this 
loan, though in fact no re-mortgage went ahead. In August 2019 and again in February 
2020, she called as she was having technical difficulties in making a payment. In April 2020, 
she asked for and was given a coronavirus payment deferral. In July 2020, as part of the 
review of the payment deferral, she again said she was considering re-mortgaging or selling 
the property and didnt anticipate having this loan for more than another year. In March 
2022, she complained about the level of the balance, and agreed an increased payment 
arrangement to ensure it would be paid off by the end of the term in 2033.
As I say, I cant look at the fairness of what happened to the balance before April 2018, and 
it was in that period that the problems which led to the increased balance happened. But Im 
satisfied that the balance reflects what Mrs O owes, taking into account the impact of the 
historic arrears and the additional interest that resulted. 
And Im satisfied that, in the particular circumstances of this case, I wouldnt expect Blemain 
to take further action. Mrs O does owe the sums shes being asked to pay. Shes agreed an 
affordable payment arrangement that will result in the loan being cleared by the end of the 
term  so this is not a situation where theres no prospect of the loan being repaid within a reasonable time compared to the original term, or where the borrower has no prospect of 
getting things back on track. 
In those particular circumstances, theres nothing more I would currently expect Blemain to 
do. But it will need to keep things under review, and if at any point in the future the loan 
becomes unaffordable for Mrs O, it will need to consider what forbearance and assistance it 
can offer to help her at that time.
Ive also looked at how Blemain communicated with Mrs O about the increased balance and 
the steps she would need to take to bring things back on track. Its agreed that prior to 2018 
it didnt make things clear to Mrs O. But I can see that from 2018 it included clearer 
information on its annual statements, it set things out in its 2018 complaint response, and it 
has discussed the higher than expected balance and the reasons for it with Mrs O since. 
Blemain has offered compensation of £500 for the earlier shortcomings in its communication 
with Mrs O, and Im satisfied thats a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Blemain Finance Limited trading as 
Together has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this complaint, and should pay 
Mrs O £500 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman