DRN-3494396
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the service they received from U K Insurance Limited when 
Mr B claimed on the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have the benefit of travel insurance via their package bank account. As this 
complaint relates to a claim Mr B made, Ill mainly refer to him in my decision. 
Mr B was on holiday in November 2020  he was in a country Ill refer to as A. He became 
unwell and needed treatment. UKI agreed to cover the claim and Mr B received treatment. A 
few months later Mr B contacted UKI again because there was a complication following the 
treatment hed received. UKI arranged to repatriate Mr B to the UK. 
Mr B is unhappy because he had to wait a long time for treatment on the NHS and UKI 
wouldnt pay for private treatment. In their final response letter UKI did acknowledge that 
there had been failings in the service they provided to Mr B including delays in settling Mr 
Bs claim, responding to his emails and getting medical information from the treating team in 
A. They paid Mr B £250 compensation for what had gone wrong but maintained their 
decision to repatriate him was reasonable. Unhappy, Mr B made a complaint to our service. 
Mr B told our investigator he was effectively dumped on the NHS and spent several months 
waiting for treatment. During that time he says he was experiencing a lot of pain and 
discomfort. He said that he should have been seen by a surgeon in A rather than being sent 
back to the UK. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
UKIs decision to repatriate Mr B was reasonable and said that the policy wasnt a private 
medical insurance policy. He thought £250 fairly compensated Mr B for the customer service 
issues. 
Mr B didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that he was 
left in considerable pain because of the first operation in A and hed needed to access 
emergency treatment in the UK on a number of occasions. Mr B also said that the surgeon in 
A would have operated further to sort the problem out and if this had happened the trauma 
he experienced in the UK over a period of nearly six months wouldnt have happened. So, I 
need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that UKI has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr B had treatment in A  he says that this led to the later complications he 
experienced. But UKI isnt responsible for the standard of medical treatment in a 
hospital. If Mr B had raised concerns about the treatment he was receiving then Id 
have expected UKI to respond appropriately. Based on the evidence I have Mr B 
didnt raise concerns about the standard of care, so I dont think UKI had the 
opportunity to address this at the relevant time.  
I appreciate that Mr B feels that it would have better for him to have the further 
treatment in A, rather than being repatriated to the UK. But, under the policy terms 
and conditions, UKI has the discretion to authorise treatment abroad or to repatriate 
a policyholder to the UK. Ive considered the available medical evidence and I dont 
think UKI acted unreasonably by deciding to repatriate Mr B to the UK for treatment. 
I think they exercised their discretion reasonably. UKI referred Mr Bs medical report 
to their medical team who advised that the surgery was not emergency surgery and 
there was no guarantee it would relieve Mr Bs symptoms. I think it was reasonable 
for UKI to rely on that advice and I note that they upgraded Mr B to ensure his 
comfort on the flight. 
Mr B also told UKI that he didnt want to have more surgery in A during one of the 
calls where his repatriation was discussed. Having listened to the call Mr B seems to 
have been pleased to hear that he was returning home and that UKI were looking at 
business class seats. In summary, he said he was aware he didnt need to rush 
home and he needed a bit of time to pack up the accommodation he was staying in 
as it would take a few days. So, based on the available evidence, I dont think Mr B 
was asking UKI to have the surgery in A at the time.  
Travel insurance isnt the same as private medical insurance. Theres no cover under 
Mr Bs travel insurance policy for private medical treatment if there are delays in 
accessing treatment on the NHS following repatriation. Im sorry that Mr B 
experienced a lot of pain and discomfort during the months he was awaiting 
treatment on the NHS, but I dont think thats something UKI was responsible for. Im 
satisfied they reasonably fulfilled their obligations as set out in the contract of 
insurance.
UKI acknowledged that there were delays in responding to Mr Bs emails, delays in 
getting the medical information and delays in handling the claim. I think the £250 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr B during this time. In 
reaching that conclusion Ive taken into account that Mr B was able to access 
treatment in A within a reasonable time frame and that he was successfully 
repatriated to the UK by UKI within a reasonable timeframe. So, I think the £250 UKI 
has paid Mr B is fair. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman