DRN-3064496
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G  say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
The mortgage and MPPI policy were originally sold by Cheltenham and Gloucester (C&G) 
but Lloyds has responsibility for the sale, and for this complaint. So, Ill refer to Lloyds in this 
decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out their mortgage. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. I know this will be disappointing for 
them, so Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say that they didnt know that MPPI had been taken out when they applied for 
their mortgage, so it mustve been added without their consent. They say that they only 
became aware of the MPPI much later.
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the sale, only information about the 
type of policy that was sold  but this isnt unusual for a sale that took place so long ago. 
And businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. 
I understand that this is frustrating for Mr and Mrs G, as they would like to see paperwork 
that shows that MPPI was discussed, and that they consented to take out the policy. But Im 
afraid this isnt possible. And because of this, I dont have enough to say that Mr and Mrs 
werent given a choice in taking out the MPPI policy  so I cant uphold their complaint for 
this reason.
Lloyds says that it wouldve recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G  so it wouldve 
needed to take extra steps to make sure that the policy it was selling was right for them. And 
it seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time and taking in to account the alternative means they had of making repayments should 
they be unable to work due to sickness or unemployment. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr and Mrs G dont appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their circumstances it looks 
like the policy couldve been useful to them. So, I dont think that better information wouldve 
made a difference.  
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including what they have said about 
the monies that Lloyds has put aside to compensate people for mis-sold PPI policies, and 
that all mis-sold PPI policies should be compensated for. Of course, there have been lots of 
PPI policies that were mis-sold, but each case is looked at individually, and I havent found 
that their MPPI policy was mis-sold. So these points dont change my conclusion
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive
seen these dates dont apply to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage account so these rules and 
guidance dont apply
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman