DRN-2057663
The complaint
Miss M complains about the settlement offered by Advantage Insurance Company Limited 
(Advantage), following a claim made under her motor insurance policy. 
A representative has brought Miss Ms complaint to this service on her behalf. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to both Miss M and her representative as Miss M. All references to 
Advantage include its agents. 
What happened
Miss M was unfortunately involved in a car accident in February 2020. Advantage decided 
itd be written off and offered to pay her £4,535 less any excess. Advantage said this figure 
reflected the market value of her vehicle from the date of loss. 
Advantage said it reached this figure after referring to the motor trade guides. Itd reached a 
value of £5,668 but deducted 20% from this due to Miss Ms car previously being written off 
prior to the loss. 
Miss M wasnt happy with the valuation Advantage provided and felt itd acted unfairly by 
making a 20% deduction. She said Advantage shouldve deducted 20% off her insurance 
premium given the risk was lower, as it wouldve always paid out 20% less than what she 
thought her car was worth. 
Miss M disputed the valuation and provided adverts and value ranges from an online motor 
guide. She said Advantage should increase its offer so shes able to replace her car with a 
like-for-like replacement. As it didnt agree to do this, she brought a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She used the motor trade guides and 
found Advantages offer was fair and reasonable based on what shed found. She said she 
didnt think Advantage acted unfairly by deducting 20% from the settlement due to the 
vehicles history. 
Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. She remained of the view Advantages offer for the 
market value was unfair. So she asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is Miss Ms policy. The terms and conditions say, in the event of a 
total loss claim, Advantage will do one of the following: 
Pay for any necessary repairs 
Replace your car 
Pay the Market Value of your Car immediately before the loss. 
In this case, Advantage decided to settle the claim by paying Miss M the market value of her 
vehicle. The policy defines market value as: 
The cost of replacing your Car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not 
necessarily be the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your 
insurer may use publications such as Glasss guide to assess the Market Value and 
will make any necessary allowances for the mileage and condition of your Car and 
the circumstances in which you bought it. 
This means Advantage is required to pay the policyholder the amount the vehicle was worth 
at the time the loss occurred. It can also reduce the settlement figure if it thinks the mileage, 
condition or vehicles history impacts on the market value. 
Its important to explain that my role isnt to provide what I consider to be a fair market value 
at the time of loss. My role is to decide whether I think Advantage has applied the policy 
terms when reaching its valuation figure and if it has done so in a fair and reasonable way. 
Based on what Ive seen I think it has. 
This type of complaint is common, and this service has a well-established approach to 
considering them. We start by looking at the motor trade guides. I find these guides more 
persuasive than other methods of valuing vehicles  such as online adverts. This is because 
the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely selling prices, as opposed to 
a sellers asking price. 
Advantage used the motor trade guides during the process of providing Miss M with a fair 
market value of her vehicle under the policy. Our investigator was able to produce three 
valuations from the motor trade guides. She discounted one of these as its only relevant 
where the event happened within the last three months. Im in agreement with this approach. 
Having considered the guides, she found Advantages valuation to be within the range of the 
valuations provided by the guides. So, I dont consider Advantage acted unfairly in reaching 
the value it has. 
Miss M provided online adverts of vehicles she considered to be similar to hers. Ive given 
these a lot of thought and note these adverts ranged between £6,800 to £7,795. I also note 
these vehicles ranged in terms of mileage and are lower than Miss Ms mileage from the 
time of loss. Online adverts are based on a sellers preferred asking price which can often be 
inflated to allow an amount for negotiation, whereas the guides provide extensive research 
of likely selling prices. Therefore, I place more evidence on the motor trade guides for these 
reasons. 
Advantage deducted 20% from the settlement as Miss M was aware when she got the car as 
a gift, that itd previously been written off. Ive carefully considered this, and based on what 
Ive found, I dont think Advantage acted unfairly by deducting 20%. This is because as Miss 
Ms vehicle was previously written off, this can affect its value. I understand Miss M received her vehicle in good condition as a gift, but shes said both she and the person who 
purchased it were aware of its history. 
Miss M said Advantage shouldve deducted 20% from her premium given the deduction 
made from the total loss settlement. She said the deduction means Advantage took on less 
risk when insuring her vehicle. But I dont agree here as there are many other risk-based 
factors Miss M was on cover for in the event she required to make a claim. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied on balance Advantages settlement offer for the 
market value of Miss Ms vehicle at the time of loss was fair according to our approach and 
the policys terms and conditions. So, I dont require Advantage to increase this. I know this 
will disappoint Miss M but my decision ends what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Advantage  can do for her.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman