DRN-3256901
The complaint
Mr G has complained about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim under a 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Gs tenants reported that water had entered a flat that he owned. The agent who 
managed the flat for Mr G reported this to Aviva. Aviva accepted the claim. Aviva also told 
the managing agent that the policy provided cover for loss of rent.
Mr Gs tenants left the property. Aviva reviewed Mr Gs claim for loss of rent, it realised that 
the policy didnt cover this. So, it said it wouldnt cover any loss of rent.
Mr G complained to Aviva about a number of issues with the claim. When Aviva replied, it 
said it had made a mistake when it advised that loss of rent would be covered. It had asked 
Mr G for evidence of what action he took as a result of this advice, but no substantiating 
evidence had been received. It offered £200 by way of apology for any loss of expectation. 
Aviva also, separately, paid Mr G £692.30 to cover four weeks loss of rent as a gesture of 
goodwill.
So, Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. She said 
Aviva should pay £750 under the alternative accommodation part of the policy to cover a 
five-week period. This included any money already paid as loss of rent. She said the 
carpets, council tax and service charges werent covered by the policy, so Aviva didnt need 
to pay for these. However, she said Aviva should cover trace and access costs, if applicable.
As both Aviva and Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 11 November 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Aviva accepted that it made a mistake when it said that loss of rent was covered under the 
policy. When it realised this, it offered £692.30 as a gesture of goodwill for loss of rent and 
£200 for loss of expectation. Ive thought about whether this was reasonable and whether 
Aviva should have covered any further costs under the terms of the policy.
Having read the policy documents, Im satisfied that there is no cover for loss of rent under 
the policy. So, what Im considering is the consequence of Aviva mistakenly saying the 
policy included this cover. Aviva asked Mr G for evidence of what action he took as a result 
of it providing incorrect advice about loss of rent. Mr G didnt provide Aviva with a response 
to this while it was considering his complaint. However, Mr G later said he told his tenants 
they could leave the property early as he believed the rent would be covered.
Aviva said it would normally pay loss of rent from when a property became uninhabitable to 
when it became habitable again. It initially offered Mr G £375 for lost rent on the basis that it 
was likely to take two weeks for the property to dry. Mr G said he thought Aviva should cover 
four weeks lost rent, which took into account the date of the damage to the likely date that 
the drying would be complete. Aviva agreed to this and paid Mr G £692.30. This discussion 
took place before the drying was complete. The drying actually seemed to be completed five 
weeks after the damage first happened. So, on that basis, I currently think Aviva should 
cover the five-week period. Using the same basis to calculate this as Aviva seems to have 
used to calculate four weeks, I currently intend to say that Aviva should pay £865.38 to cover 
five weeks rent.
Ive also thought about whether Aviva should pay beyond the date on which the drying was 
completed. I havent seen anything to show that the property remained uninhabitable once 
the drying was complete, although Im aware that work still needed to be carried out to return 
the property to its pre-loss condition. By this point Mr G knew the policy didnt cover loss of 
rent and that after the drying was complete Aviva was likely to think the property was again 
habitable. 
As part of thinking about this, Im mindful of the somewhat unusual circumstances of what 
happened. But, even if there had been loss of rent cover under the policy, Mr G would have 
had to find new tenants if he wanted to continue to receive a rental income once that cover 
no longer applied. I havent seen anything that suggests to me Mr G tried to find new tenants 
to move into the property for when the property either became habitable or the work was 
complete. Im aware that Mr G has since told this service that he later decided to sell the 
property because of the issues he experienced. But, Im not currently persuaded that Aviva 
needed to continue to pay for loss of rent beyond the first five-week period. 
Ive also thought about whether Aviva should pay anything under the alternative 
accommodation part of the policy. Aviva has said that the part of the policy only applied to 
the policyholder or Mr G as the leaseholder and didnt extend to the tenants. Having thought 
about this in the context of what happened, I dont currently think Aviva is liable to pay 
anything under this section of the policy. This is because, regardless of who was covered by 
this part of the policy, there were no costs for alternative accommodation. This part of the 
policy isnt an allowance. It is a way by which additional costs for alternative accommodation 
can be reimbursed. There were no costs for alternative accommodation because neither Mr 
G or his tenants moved to alternative accommodation. So, Im currently of the view that this 
part of the policy doesnt apply and that I dont need to consider whether the cover extended 
to Mr Gs tenants, as it isnt relevant in the circumstances of this claim.
Ive also thought about whether the carpet should have been dealt with as part of the claim. 
The policy was for buildings only. Carpets are normally dealt with as contents. Im also 
aware that the carpet actually belonged to the tenant. Its my understanding that the tenant 
didnt have any contents insurance so was unable to make a claim for it. Having considered 
this, Im currently on the view that it was reasonable for Aviva not to deal with the carpet as 
part of the claim.
Mr G has also suggested that the carpet could have been dealt with under the part of the 
policy about the removal of tenant content debris. However, Im currently of the view that this 
didnt apply in this case. This is because while the tenant still lived at the property, the carpet 
got wet and needed to be removed in order to allow work to be carried out. In the 
circumstances, I dont think that because Mr G dealt with removing the carpet rather than the 
tenant that this meant it was debris.
Mr G also said Aviva should cover the council tax and service charges for the property. 
However, Im satisfied that Aviva doesnt need to refund them under the terms of the policy.
Mr G has also said that Aviva should pay some trace and access costs. Mr G provided Aviva 
with an invoice for the emergency plumber. Aviva said it wouldn't cover these costs because 
they were to find the source of the leak, which wasnt covered by the policy. Following further discussions with Mr G, Aviva agreed to pay £100 of the £150 bill, as some of the costs were 
for water removal. I think that was reasonable in the circumstances. Mr G has also provided 
an invoice which said it was for work that took place a few months after this claim was made. 
Aviva has said it will look at those costs as part of a separate claim it is considering. I think 
that is reasonable in the circumstances and I dont currently intend to require Aviva to do 
anything further in relation to trace and access costs as part of this claim.
Ive also thought about compensation. Aviva offered Mr G £200 compensation for the loss of 
expectation because it mistakenly said loss of rent would be covered. Thinking about 
everything that happened, I think that was reasonable and I dont currently intend to require 
it to pay anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 9 December 2021.
Mr G provided a range of comments, which in summary were:
It was untrue to say Mr G provided no evidence of the action he took as a result of 
Avivas incorrect advice nor that he told the tenants they could leave the property early. 
The tenancy was ended because the tenants couldnt stay in an uninhabitable property 
and, because loss of rent cover was in place, them leaving was the most suitable way 
forward.
Aviva initially offered £375 towards lost rent. This was at the three and a half week stage, 
so Mr G requested four weeks payment with finalisation to follow.
It was incorrect to say drying was complete five weeks after the damage. It was 12 and a 
half weeks with a further five and a half weeks of significant remedial work.
Aviva didnt refer to five weeks because this was the drying out time but because this 
was the period for which it gave assurance that loss of rent would be paid, saying it was 
the period from which the property was uninhabitable to when it again became habitable. 
After five weeks, Aviva said there was no loss of rent cover.
The property was uninhabitable for a significant period after it had dried out. The 
property wasnt habitable until other works had taken place, such as replacing the 
skirting board, redecorating and replacing some flooring.
Mr G accepted Aviva wasnt liable after the property became habitable, but this period 
hadnt been claimed for. He didnt try to find tenants at that point, as Mr G decided to sell 
the property.
If alternative accommodation had been provided, the tenancy could have continued.
The carpets belonged to Mr G, not the tenants.
Debris removal did appear to be covered under the policy and seemed to include the 
carpets.
Although carpets might usually be defined as contents, Mr G still thought the policy 
wording covered it.
For trace and access, this service had said it was covered and Mr G had provided an 
invoice to this service to support his claim. Aviva had also indicated that it wasnt willing 
to look at the trace and access as part of the other claim.
Mr G was unclear how the loss of rent amount had been calculated.
Mr G also asked if I could consider whether Aviva should have deducted the excess from 
him. He was aware this service had already told him that should be a new complaint.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision. But I asked it some further questions 
following Mr Gs comments, which it replied to. These said:
Mr Gs timeline of events was in some ways correct, but it was the second leak that 
meant the issues continued. The second leak was a separate claim.The property should have dried out within five weeks. It was the second leak, which 
meant that it didnt and caused further damage to the property.
Whether the carpet was buildings or contents, and therefore part of the claim, would 
depend on how it was installed. If it was installed by grippers, it would be contents and 
not covered as part of the claim.
The trace and access costs related to the second claim and Aviva thought it had been 
dealt with as part of that claim, which had now been closed. Aviva later clarified that it 
hadnt considered the trace and access costs as part of the second claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in part and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr G has made, along with the 
responses from Aviva, even if I dont comment on them here. However, Im not persuaded to 
change my view about how this complaint should be dealt with.
When I made my provisional decision, I was aware there were two claims at the property. 
The incorrect advice about the loss of rent issue was given at the start of the first claim. The 
work at the property, and the amount of time it took to complete, didnt all fall within the first 
claim. Mr G also made his complaint, and Aviva responded to it, before the second leak had 
been found and a new claim was opened. Whilst I understand that Mr G might regard all that 
happened as the continuation of the same issue, concerns about the second claim and the 
leak that led to it need to be dealt with outside of the complaint that Ive been looking at. This 
means Mr G needs to raise this as a separate complaint with Aviva, if he hasnt done so 
already. In my view, Ive addressed all the issues that fell within the scope of this complaint. 
Im aware this means not all of Mr Gs concerns in his timeline have been addressed but, as 
Ive explained, he needs to raise the outstanding issues with Aviva directly.
However, I will clarify some of the points Mr G raised in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr G said the carpet belonged to him not his tenants. Avivas notes said the carpet belonged 
to the tenants. Following Mr Gs comments, I looked again at this point. Ive no reason to 
doubt what Mr G has said, despite Avivas notes saying otherwise. During the claim, I can 
see Aviva specifically checked how the carpet was secured and confirmed it was by gripper 
rods. I also checked the policy wording. I remain of the view that Aviva didnt need to deal 
with the carpet as part of the claim, as it wasnt covered by the terms of the policy.
I calculated the amount that should be paid for loss of rent by taking the monthly rent and 
calculating what this would be in total for a year and dividing that amount by 52 and then 
multiplying it by the number of weeks the loss of rent should cover. This gave me a total of 
£865.38. I remain of the view that this is the amount Aviva should pay.
In terms of the trace and access, I remain of the view that the costs already covered by 
Aviva as part of this complaint were reasonable. Aviva said to this service it would look at the 
other trace and access costs as part of the second claim. Im aware Aviva has now said it 
closed that claim and didnt consider those costs. Mr G needs to raise those costs directly 
with Aviva, if he wants it to consider them. But, to be clear, I have no view one way or the 
other on whether Aviva should pay those costs or on whether it should have closed the 
second claim before considering them. Mr G would also need to raise the excess point with 
Aviva.Putting things right
Aviva must pay a total of £865.38 for the consequential loss as a result of the misadvice 
about the loss of rent and pay interest on any of that amount that is outstanding. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr G a total of £865.38 for the consequential loss as a result of him being 
misadvised about loss of rent cover. Any payments already made for loss of rent can be 
deducted from this amount.
Pay 8% simple interest on any outstanding amount for loss of rent from the date of the 
claim to the date on which payment is made.
If Aviva considers its required by HMRC to take off income tax from the interest it has 
paid, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman