DRN-2544271
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as G complains that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under Gs business protection insurance policy.
Mr B who is a director of G brings the complaint on Gs behalf.
What happened
G holds a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds. Mr B made a claim on that 
policy to cover Gs losses arising from its closure as the result of the national government-
imposed lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said G didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming for as 
COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr B didnt agree. He said he thought 
the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for specified illnesses meant that Gs claim 
should be covered.
G complained to Lloyds but Lloyds explained that, although Gs policy would provide cover 
in the event of certain specified diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the 
named diseases. Mr B wasnt happy with this response so brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered Gs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
while he sympathises with Mr Bs situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mr B didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
G is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in declining Gs claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy G took out. 
Mr B has told us that G closed its doors in March 2020 due to the government-imposed 
lockdown, which meant it wasnt allowed to remain open. Hes said hes been buying 
insurance for over 30 years to provide peace of mind and hes also said that the wording of 
the policy has now changed to exclude COVID-19, showing it wasnt excluded previously. 
However my role is to consider whether Lloyds has acted fairly in declining this claim, based 
on the wording of the policy in place at the time of the insured event. And having considered 
the wording of the policy, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Mr B purchased an extension to the policy for infectious diseases. The policy states that it 
provides cover for business interruption in consequence of closure of the Premises or part 
thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local authority as a result 
ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person whilst 
at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
The policy provides a definition for the term Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list. COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the 
policy was entered into so I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list. But there are other 
policies on the market that provide cover for the present pandemic  usually policies that 
cover all notifiable diseases, which are set out and updated on a Government defined list. 
Whereas Gs policy sets out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered by the policy. 
And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any 
new illnesses which might emerge. 
Lloyds has also explained that the wording of the policy was reviewed in 2016, when it 
commenced its relationship with the underwriter. Following this, the process for adding any 
new diseases to the specified list would include approval by a senior underwriter and a new 
version of the policy being produced to show the amended list of specified Diseases. So, I 
think Lloyds has deliberately set out a list of the specific illnesses it intended to cover.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation (WHO) has also confirmed that while related, the two 
viruses are different and it said that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
the two diseases are the same.
Mr B has highlighted some information on the WHO website which discusses some of the 
reasoning behind the name given to the new disease. However, this doesnt change my 
decision as, based on the information above, the World Health Organisation also clearly 
explains that the two viruses are different and that COVID-19 is a new disease.
So while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the government-imposed lockdown had 
on G, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of the 
policy, I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly in declining Gs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman