DRN-2376463
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his business S (a limited company) about what Society of 
Lloyd's (Lloyds) did after S made a claim on its professional indemnity insurance policy.
All references to Lloyds include its agents.
What happened
S holds professional indemnity insurance with Lloyds. In May 2017 Ss broker contacted 
Lloyds and provided notification of a claim under its policy. It said a system it had designed 
for a water treatment works contained incorrect calculations which left them with no option 
but to redesign and refabricate large sections of the plant. Some of the issues have been 
corrected under contractual duress and others will be corrected over the coming weeks. 
Lloyds asked a number of questions including about the dates, liability and whether a claim 
was likely to be made against S.  S subsequently clarified in August 2017 that it had 
identified the problem on site in April and carried out repair work following on from that. In 
September 2017 an employee at S dealing with the matter left which caused difficulties in 
providing further information. A loss adjuster was appointed who produced a report in 
January 2018. Following that Lloyds decided to appoint a local agent to investigate further. 
On the basis of the information Mr K provided to that agent Lloyds said it had concerns 
about whether some of these issues arose prior to the policy renewal date (and so should 
have been declared at that time). Mr K said hed provided the wrong dates to the local agent 
and the problems werent apparent until April 2017. 
In July 2018 Lloyds turned down the claim. It said it was difficult to draw firm conclusions 
about the timing or commencement date for the works. But it said in any case the policy 
required S to obtain the insurers prior written consent before carrying out any remedial 
works. That hadnt been done in this case so S was in breach of that condition. 
Our investigator agreed S hadnt obtained prior written consent for the works. And she was 
also satisfied Lloyds had shown its position had been prejudiced because that hadnt been 
done. She accepted it had no ability to judge whether the work carried out was proportionate 
and reasonably priced. She thought it was fair of Lloyds to have turned down the claim. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said S had told its broker about the issues with the contract and didnt 
think it was fair for the claim to be turned down. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate theres been considerable debate over when S first started work on this contract 
and when it became aware of the problems with what had been done. I note in his written 
statement to the local agent Mr K was clear that he first started to move equipment on site in 
January 2016 and the problems had arisen in April 2016. 
And that and the other dates in the statement do in themselves appear to match up together. 
I also note he reviewed and amended his statement following its initial submission but made 
no change to these dates. Equally I can see that in other correspondence Mr K has 
consistently said April 2017 was when he became aware of the problem and hes provided 
considerable supporting evidence in support of his position on that. He says he got the dates 
wrong in his statement. 
Ultimately I dont think its necessary for me to reach a definitive finding on this because I 
dont think the start date for the contract or when the problem became apparent is the key 
issue in deciding whether the claim S made is covered by its policy. I think the more 
important issue is what the terms say in relation what the policy actually covers and whether 
or not S has met the requirement to obtain prior approval for remedial works set out in those 
terms. 
I can see the policy contains a number of insuring clauses which set out the cover it 
provides. Of those I think only two could potentially apply to whats happened here; clause 
one which relates to Indemnity and clause four Mitigation costs and expenses. 
The indemnity clause provides cover in certain circumstances for any liability incurred in the 
ordinary conduct of Your Professional Business and arising from any Claim first made 
against You during the Period of Insurance for damages. And that includes a claim made for 
breach of Professional Duty including any duty to warn. 
The definition of Professional Duty includes design and/ or specification. This issue 
appears to have arisen from design problems which S was responsible for so this would 
potentially cover what happened here. But the clause is only engaged where a claim has 
been made against S (during the period of insurance) for damages. And in this case no 
claim has been made against S because it agreed to address the identified issues without 
the need for more formal action. So I dont think this section of the policy would cover the 
claim S made. 
However, the policy also covers mitigation costs and expenses. In relation to that it says it 
will cover:
 any amount up to the Limit of Liability for costs and expenses incurred with Our prior 
written consent in respect of any matter that arises and is notified to Us during the Period 
of Insurance in taking steps:
to avoid a claim being made against You; or
to wholly or partially reduce any Loss for which You might be liable in relation to a 
Claim or Circumstance that might develop into a claim, in respect of which You would 
otherwise be entitled to be indemnified by Us under the terms of this Certificate.
In this case the work S carried out after the design problems had been identified might have 
prevented a claim being made against it  and could also have reduced the potential value 
of any claim that was subsequently made. So I think whats happened here could fall within 
this section of the policy. The difficulty for S is that for cover to be in place prior written 
consent is required from Lloyds for any costs and expenses it incurs in carrying out 
mitigation work.
 Mr K said in his initial complaint to us that he was told by the insurer to continue with the 
works and rectify any issues as he went along. But the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
Lloyds did give consent for these works to take place. 
When S first got in touch with Lloyds via its broker in May 2017 it said incorrect calculations 
had left them with no option but to redesign and refabricate large sections of the plant. 
Some of the issues have been corrected under contractual duress and others will be 
corrected over the coming weeks.
That suggests significant rectification work had taken place before Lloyds had even been 
made aware there was a problem. And I can see in June 2017 Ss broker emailed Mr K and 
said we cant see a reason why rectification costs wont be covered as long as the Insurer 
gives written consent before the work begins. Therefore if you could provide answers to the 
Insurers questions as soon as possible then we can seek their approval.
That clearly suggests Lloyds hadnt given any approval for the rectification work at that stage 
either. And the notes of a phone call between S and Lloyds in August 2017 suggest that by 
that stage the repair works had taken place (though a further problem had arisen in relation 
to this). I appreciate there were then ongoing discussions and investigations into what had 
happened but I cant see at any point Lloyds gave approval for the rectification work to take 
place. Of course its possible S may have been given a different message by its broker (or 
someone else) but that isnt something Lloyds would be responsible for. 
So for the reasons Ive explained I dont think S has met the prior approval condition of this 
section of the policy. And Ive gone on to think about whether its fair for Lloyds to apply that 
in the circumstances of this case; it might not be fair to do so if Lloyds hadnt been adversely 
affected (prejudiced) by being told about the work late. 
Lloyds has explained that because it wasnt notified of the works in advance its not had the 
ability to understand the extent of these or independently verify the potential liabilities that S 
might have incurred. Its also not had the opportunity to assess whether the proposed 
solutions were proportionate and reasonably priced.  
I think Lloyds has done enough to show it has been prejudiced. I accept its possible if it had 
been told of the works in advance it would still have agreed to what S proposed. But its also 
possible it would have suggested alternatives that might have reduced any potential liability 
under the policy. S has effectively carried out the work that it thought was appropriate 
without giving Lloyds any opportunity to input into that process and then asked Lloyds to pay 
those costs under the terms of its insurance policy. 
I can understand why S felt in the circumstances it needed to take speedy action to remedy 
the error it had made. But I dont think that would have prevented it from seeking approval 
for those works in line with the terms of its policy. And I accept that not doing so has 
prejudiced Lloydss position. Because of that I dont think it acted unfairly in turning down the 
claim S made.  
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K (on behalf of S) to accept or reject my decision before 
27 February 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman