DRN-3254097
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) hasnt credited money 
to his account that was sent to him from a friend.
What happened
On 6 August 2021, Mr B says his friend, who Ill refer to as Mr L, transferred £1,250 from his 
account into Mr Bs account. Mr B says the money has left his friends account, but hasnt 
been credited to his Halifax account. 
Mr B says the money has gone missing and both banks arent accepting responsibility for 
the missing payment.
Mr B says that as a result of the missing payment, he has gone overdrawn and he didnt 
have enough money to keep up with repayments. He added that he is being charged interest 
on a daily basis.
To put things right, Mr B would like Halifax to find the missing payment and credit it to his 
account.
Mr B complained to Halifax, but they didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr Ls test 
payment of £1 had reached Mr Bs account successfully, but it hadnt received an amount of 
£1,250. It said it wouldnt have blocked or rejected the payment unless there was a block on 
Mr Bs account, but it explained that there wasnt a block on the account and so theres no 
reason why the payment wouldnt have been received. Halifax also confirmed that it doesnt 
have a holding account, and any payment received would have been credited straight to Mr 
Bs account. 
Halifax also explained that there had been faster payment issues with Mr Ls bank.  And 
these took place of specific dates in September 2021 and October 2021.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B, but they didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. The investigator didnt find that Halifax had received the payment Mr B says was 
sent to his account. And so they didnt find that Halifax had done anything wrong when it 
didnt credit his account with the £1,250. 
Mr B didnt agree without our investigator. He said he had provided documents which proves 
that Mr L sent the money to his Halifax account. And he says that the problem is that the 
money is missing somewhere between the two banks. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I wont be upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to him, however I have explained my reasoning for this below. 
In order for me to find that Halifax has done something wrong, Id need to see evidence that 
it had received a payment and not credited it to Mr Bs account. 
Ive looked at the screenshots Mr B sent this service, which he was sent by his friend Mr L, 
to prove that the payment of £1,250 was sent to his account. Looking at these alone would 
suggest that a payment was sent to Mr B. 
But I have also seen statements of Mr Ls account, sent to this service directly from Mr Ls 
bank. The statements dont show that a payment of £1,250 was sent to Mr B on 6 August 
2021  or at any date around this time. Im inclined to place more weight on the statement 
evidence provided by the Mr Ls bank which shows that the payment wasnt sent. This is 
because weve received the original statement document, and I have no reason to doubt that 
this isnt an accurate reflection of the account activity. 
I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed by this. I can understand why he has placed 
weight on the information his friend has given him. But this information doesnt match up to 
the information provided by his friends bank.
Based on what Ive said above, I cant fairly say that Halifax has done anything wrong in not 
crediting £1,250 to Mr Bs account, because I dont think it has ever received this payment. 
So, I wont be asking Halifax to do anything more for Mr B. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman