DRN-3789365
The complaint
Miss A complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) voided her home 
insurance policy, so cancelled it from the start and declined her claim.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So Ill only provide an 
overview of key events here. 
Miss A took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds in December 2020. It provided both 
buildings and contents cover. There was a leak from a radiator in Miss As living room in 
mid-March 2021 that caused damage to the carpet, so she submitted a claim to Lloyds.  
Lloyds said it was unable to assess the damage, and therefore the claim, due to the volume 
of personal possessions and the number of caged pets in Miss As living room. In order to 
facilitate a full assessment, it paid Miss A £2,261 to cover contents storage costs and pet 
boarding. 
Miss A complained to Lloyds about how it was handling various aspects of her claim and two 
of those complaints were brought to this Service. Final decisions were issued in relation to 
both complaints and these are now closed. 
Lloyds loss adjuster visited Miss As home in around July 2021 and Miss A told the loss 
adjuster she had moved into her late fathers property in June 2020. The loss adjuster then 
gathered further information from Miss A, who confirmed she ate, slept and showered at her 
late fathers flat, and spent the rest of her time at her own home.   
Lloyds wrote to Miss A at the beginning of March 2022 and told her it had voided her policy, 
so cancelled it from the start. It said this meant her claim following the radiator leak was not 
covered. Lloyds said when Miss A applied for the policy she was asked a series of questions 
that were used to determine whether or not it was able to offer cover, and if so on what 
terms. It said one of these questions was: 
What is the maximum number of days in a row that the home is left unoccupied?
Lloyds said Miss A answered 0-30 in response to this question, and she also confirmed 
she was the owner / occupier. Lloyds said that after the application was agreed, it sent 
Miss A a statement of insurance, which contained a list of the responses given by her during 
her application. Lloyds said it stated at the top of this document that Miss A should carefully 
check the details and contact Lloyds if any of the information was incorrect. 
Lloyds said that during the course of Miss As claim, it came to light that she had moved out 
of her home and into her late fathers property in June 2020 before she took out the policy. 
Lloyds said Miss A advised she was unable to return to her home given its condition and 
because disability adaptations needed to be carried out. Lloyds also pointed to a policy term 
that indicated Miss A needed to advise it if her home became unoccupied for more than the 
unoccupancy period shown in her policy schedule. 
Lloyds told Miss A that when a policy was voided, it would usually refund premiums in full. 
However, it said Miss A had already received a payment of £2261 from it in relation to the 
claim which she was not entitled to, given the policy had been voided. So, it deducted the 
premium refund from the amount she owed it and said it would not look to recover any 
outstanding amount.
Miss A complained to Lloyds. She said that following her fathers death she needed to 
remove various possessions from his flat, but this was made difficult by the country being in 
lockdown and the councils decision to repossess the flat and restrict her access. So she felt 
forced into making the decision to move into her late fathers flat. Miss A also said the 
kitchen in her own home had flooded prior to her taking out the policy with Lloyds but was 
still wet because remedial works hadnt been carried out. She said she couldnt stay at her 
property while it was in that state because of her various serious health conditions.
Miss A also said she needed her claim to be paid so that repairs could be carried out that 
would allow a stairlift to be fitted. She said she received disability benefit and was unable to 
repair her property herself. Miss A said the delays in her claim had greatly impacted her 
mental health and she accessed psychological services as a result. She said her local 
council were looking to take back possession of her late fathers flat, and if that happened 
she would have nowhere else to live.
Miss A also said her home had never been unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row, as 
she was there every day to take care of her pets, so she didnt think the policy should have 
been voided. Miss A said that prior to the radiator leak in March 2021 she had been staying 
there for one night a week, as the kitchen had dried out by that time. 
Lloyds responded to her complaint in March 2022 and reiterated what it said when it decided 
to void Miss As policy. It also looked into the service it had provided and offered Miss A £75 
compensation as it said there were shortcomings regarding the service it provided.  
Miss A was unhappy with the response and so brought her complaint to this Service. Our 
Investigator looked into Miss As complaint but didnt uphold it. He concluded that Miss A 
had made a misrepresentation at the application stage when she told Lloyds her property 
wasnt unoccupied for more than 30 days in a row. He said Miss A undertook tasks such as 
sleeping, eating and washing at her late fathers home and not the property she had insured. 
Our Investigator said its clear Lloyds wouldnt have offered Miss A the policy if it had been 
aware of this, so it acted fairly when it voided the policy and declined the claim. 
Miss A didnt agree with our Investigators findings. She said she felt discriminated against 
because of her disabilities. She said the issues she had with using the bedroom and 
bathroom in her property were due to the difficulties she had using the stairs, while waiting 
for disability adaptations to be made to her home. Miss A said she does, in the main, stay at 
her late fathers home and this is because it is more accessible for her. 
As Miss A didnt agree with what our Investigator said, this came to me for a decision. I 
contacted Lloyds and was provided with additional underwriting information. 
I issued a provisional decision on 5 September 2022. I said I wasnt intending to uphold 
Miss As complaint as I thought Miss A hadnt taken reasonable care when answering a 
question asked by Lloyds at the application stage, about how many people lived at her 
property, and answered this question incorrectly. I thought Miss A should have told Lloyds 
that no one was living at her home at that point in time. I said the actions subsequently taken 
by Lloyds, when it voided Miss As policy  so cancelled it from the start - declined to deal 
with the claim she submitted in March 2021 and deducted the premium refund from the amount of £2,261 it had earlier paid to Miss A as part of the claim, were fair. I gave both 
parties the opportunity to respond. 
Lloyds responded and had nothing more to add. 
Miss A also responded and provided information that included statements about her health 
and circumstances from two friends, letters from her GP and details of her contact with 
social services. I appreciate the time Miss A has taken to gather this information and while I 
have not made reference to all of it in my decision, I want to assure Miss A that I have read 
and considered everything. 
I am now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to be clear about what I am addressing in this decision. Miss A raised other 
complaints with this Service in relation to how Lloyds was dealing with the claim for damage 
caused by the leaking radiator in her living room, and final decisions were issued that looked 
at those earlier complaints. So I am not dealing with any of the points that have already been 
addressed. What I am looking at here is whether Lloyds acted fairly when it said Miss A 
made a misrepresentation when she took out the policy in December 2020 and subsequently 
voided her policy and declined to deal with her claim.  
In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this Services longstanding approach to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering 
into an insurance contract. 
CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer has 
asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions 
accurately  and whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is determined in the light of 
all the relevant circumstances  it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
Turning to the question of whether or not Miss A made a misrepresentation when she took 
out the policy, I can see that when she applied for the policy in December 2020, she was 
asked questions about who occupied the property and the maximum number of days the 
property would be unoccupied. These questions were: 
How is the property owned and occupied? Miss A chose the option Owner Occupied.
How many adults live at the property? Miss A chose the option 1. 
What is the maximum number of days in a row that the home is left unoccupied? Miss A 
chose the option 0-30 days. 
Lloyds said if it had known that Miss A had moved to her late fathers flat around six months 
before she applied for this policy, and was visiting her own home daily but not sleeping, 
eating or showering there then it would not have offered her a policy. This is because it 
doesnt offer cover under this particular policy if a consumers home is left unoccupied for 
more than 60 days in total. Miss A said that her home was not suitable for her needs when she took out the policy, as it 
was in a state of disrepair, and disability adaptations that needed to be made couldnt be 
made until the necessary repairs were carried out. So Miss A says she moved to her late 
fathers home out of necessity and thinks Lloyds should have given greater consideration to 
this before deciding to void her policy. 
In order to decide whether Miss A made any misrepresentations when she took out the 
policy, Ive first of all looked at what information she was asked to provide at the application 
stage. Miss A cannot be expected to provide information that she wasnt asked for, so I need 
to be satisfied that the relevant questions were clear and unambiguous. 
Ive focused on the question about how many adults live at the property and Im satisfied that 
the question was phrased clearly enough that a reasonable consumer would have known 
what information they were being asked to provide. Having considered all of the available 
information, I dont think Miss A answered this question correctly. 
I say this because I can see that when Miss A applied for the policy, she was not living in her 
own home. From what I can see Miss A didnt consider her house to be habitable at that 
time. Its my understanding that about a year before making the current claim, Miss A made 
a claim with a different insurer about an escape of water in her kitchen, and at the time she 
applied for the Lloyds policy the necessary remedial work hadnt yet been carried out to the 
kitchen. She told Lloyds loss adjuster that she was living at her late fathers property due to 
the kitchen flood. So from what I can see, Miss A didnt have what she considered to be a 
functioning kitchen at her house. 
I understand that Miss A also wasnt able to use the bathroom or bedroom in her house as 
both were upstairs and so were difficult to access. Miss A told this Service that her health 
issues mean she has difficulty with the stairs and is waiting to have a stairlift fitted. She said 
for this to be done the walls need replastering and decorating, and carpet needs to be put in 
place. Miss A also told the loss adjuster that she had been registered as homeless with a 
homeless charity because of the problems with her house. 
So its because of the circumstances outlined above that Miss A was sleeping, eating and 
showering at her late fathers property and was essentially visiting her own home once a day 
in order to take care of her pets. So Im satisfied that when Miss A told Lloyds in December 
2020 that there was 1 person living at her home, there was in fact no one living there, as 
Miss A considered the property to be uninhabitable and had moved into her late fathers flat 
some months before. I think a reasonable consumer, faced with the same circumstances as 
Miss A, would have known they were living somewhere other than their own home, and 
would have known to answer this particular question differently. 
When she responded to my provisional decision, Miss A asked me to take into consideration 
that she often falls asleep during the day while at her own home. She provided a letter from 
her GP, dated 7 October 2022, that confirms she has complained to him of falling asleep 
during the day as well as at night and that she is awaiting a referral to the chronic fatigue 
service. I can see that in the statement provided by one of Miss As friends following my 
provisional decision, she also said Miss A tends to sleep more during the day than during the 
night. Miss A has said that her tendency to sleep during the day means her situation could 
be compared to that of someone working nightshifts. 
Its not clear why Miss A is making this comparison. I think she might be suggesting that if 
someone applying for a policy worked nightshifts, then their particular living arrangements 
would be taken into consideration and wouldnt be looked at unfavourably. But I dont intend 
to compare Miss As situation to a hypothetical situation  each case is looked at on its own merits. Ill just emphasise that the issue here is that Miss As particular living arrangements 
were such that she should have answered the question asked at the application stage about 
how many adults live at the property differently. 
What this means is that I dont think Miss A took reasonable care when answering this 
question, and Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly when it said Miss A made a misrepresentation 
at the application stage about whether she was living at the property. 
I understand the difficult situation Miss A was in at the time and that her medical conditions 
were one of the reasons she wasnt living, and still isnt living, in her own home. And I can 
see, in particular from her response to my provisional decision, that she would rather be 
living in her own home on, as Miss A puts it, a full-time basis. However, when a consumer 
applies for an insurance policy, they have a duty to make sure they answer questions 
correctly and that their answers reflect their circumstances at that point in time. If there was 
any uncertainty in Miss As mind about how to answer this particular question, given the 
condition of her home and the move she made to her late fathers flat, then its reasonable to 
expect her to contact Lloyds to discuss her situation and ensure she is providing the correct 
answer. She is expected to take this level of reasonable care.  
Ive then looked at whether the misrepresentation made by Miss A was a qualifying one. By 
this I mean whether Lloyds would have taken a different course of action, such as offered 
the policy on different terms or declined to offer a policy at all, if it had known that Miss A 
wasnt living at the property. Im satisfied that Lloyds would have taken a different course of 
action and wouldnt have offered Miss A a home insurance policy if it had known she was not 
living at her own property at the time she applied for the policy. 
I say this because Lloyds has provided information that shows the online application form 
completed by Miss A didnt offer the option of saying that 0 people lived at the property. 
Any application could only proceed if 1 or more individuals were selected as living at the 
property. So, in Miss As case, if she had looked to answer this question correctly and enter 
0 people on the application form, then she would have found that she couldnt do that and 
she wouldnt have been able to proceed with the policy application. This means that in 
December 2020 she would not have been able to take out a policy with Lloyds and would not 
have had cover with them when her radiator leaked in March 2021. 
Miss As circumstances didnt change between December 2020 and the radiator leak in 
March 2021, so I dont think theres a later point between those dates when she might have 
been offered a policy with Lloyds. I know Miss A will be disappointed with my decision. But 
Im satisfied Lloyds would never have offered her a policy if it had known she wasnt living at 
her property, and so no cover from Lloyds would have been in place at the time of the 
radiator leak in March 2021. 
Given this, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably when it took steps to put itself back in the 
position it would have been in if Miss A had taken reasonable care to answer this question 
correctly  namely when it voided her policy, declined the claim and refunded the policy 
premium paid. I understand that Lloyds didnt pay the premium refund directly to Miss A. 
Instead it deducted it from the amount owed by Miss A of £2,261 that it had earlier paid to 
Miss A as part of the claim. Lloyds also said it wouldnt look to recover any outstanding 
amount once the premium refund was deducted, and I think it acted fairly when it did this. 
I can see that after her policy was voided, Miss A told Lloyds that she did, in fact, stay 
overnight at her property at least once a week. Lloyds said it wasnt persuaded to accept 
this, as Miss A had had ample opportunity to confirm this during the claims process. I think 
Lloyds acted fairly here. I can see that Miss A had earlier told the loss adjuster that she was 
eating, sleeping and showering at her late fathers home, so I think its fair to say that the more recent statement made by Miss A is at odds with what she told the loss adjuster. When 
differing accounts are provided, I think its fair to rely on the earlier statement, as this earlier 
account was so much closer in time to the event being discussed and so is more likely to be 
accurate. 
Miss A has raised concerns about disability discrimination, on the basis that she said she 
cant live in her own property at the moment because of the disability adaptations that need 
to be carried out before she can move back. She thinks Lloyds didnt give enough 
consideration to her particular circumstances and vulnerabilities before deciding to void the 
policy. 
I would certainly expect any insurer to consider the needs of vulnerable consumers and to 
make any reasonable adjustments during the application process, the claims process and 
during any communications. I know that Lloyds was aware of Miss As vulnerabilities when it 
made the decision to void her policy, so Ive looked at whether it should have done anything 
differently to accommodate her needs. 
I sympathise with the position Miss A finds herself in. I can see that she is in a difficult 
situation financially, that she has a range of health conditions and that this matter has 
caused her a great deal of anxiety. But I dont think Lloyds needed to do anything differently. 
The issue here is that Miss A would not have been offered a policy with Lloyds if she had 
told it back in December 2020  as she should have done  that she wasnt living at her 
home. What Lloyds has done here, in declining to offer Miss A a policy, is make a business 
decision about the level of risk its willing to accept. Having been provided with information 
about the application process and underwriting guidance, Im satisfied Lloyds would not have 
offered this particular policy to any consumer who wasnt living at the property they were 
trying to insure. Miss A clearly feels there were good reasons why she moved into her late 
fathers home, but Im satisfied Lloyds acted fairly when it retrospectively applied its 
underwriting guidance here. 
 
However difficult Miss As circumstances are, it would appear that this particular policy didnt 
suit her needs at the time she took it out. I dont think its for Lloyds to continue to provide 
cover for Miss A when it never would have offered the policy in the first place -  its for Miss A 
to ensure that she is taking out a policy that meets her needs. When dealing with the 
misrepresentation, Lloyds has taken the steps its allowed to take under CIDRA and Im 
satisfied its acted fairly. 
When Miss A responded to my provisional decision, she asked why it had taken many 
months for Lloyds to decide to void her policy  from the time she disclosed information 
about her living arrangements to the loss adjuster in July 2021 to March 2022. Lloyds said it 
requested information from Miss A in September 2022 that wasnt provided to it until January 
2022, and this contributed to delays. Lloyds said it then had to ensure the matter was 
thoroughly investigated before it made the decision to void the policy. Having said that, 
Lloyds did acknowledge a short delay on its part before it reached its decision. 
I can see that, following the meeting with the loss adjuster in July 2021, Lloyds tried to 
arrange a telephone interview with Miss A to clarify and gather more information about her 
living arrangements. When Miss A expressed a preference for communicating in writing, it 
said it wrote to her in early September 2021 to request further information. It then wrote a 
second time in early October 2021. Miss A then told Lloyds several weeks later that all 
requests for information would go through her solicitor. When Lloyds didnt hear from 
Miss As solicitor, it wrote to him in December 2021. Miss A then responded to Lloyds 
request for further information at the end of January 2022. It is, of course, for Miss A to decide how she would prefer to communicate with Lloyds. But 
I think Lloyds acted fairly here when it said the time it took for Miss A to provide it with the 
requested information contributed to delays here. Lloyds wasnt in a position to make a 
decision about the policy and claim until it received the information it requested from Miss A 
at the end of January 2022.
Lloyds said it could have provided Miss A with more information about timescales for 
reviewing all of the information it had, and its because of this, and other shortcomings in the 
service it provided, that Lloyds offered Miss A £75 compensation. I havent seen anything 
that would suggest this amount should be increased, so Im not asking Lloyds to take any 
further action here. 
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman