DRN-3356630
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs G bought a timeshare from Business X in July 2008. The cost of the timeshare 
was £3,795 and that was paid by a deposit of £300 and a loan of £3,795 taken from GE 
Money. The loan was in joint names and set to run for 3 years. Both the deposit and the 
proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business X, but to a different business, Business Y. 
Mr and Mrs G say that, when they purchased the timeshare they were told that the 
accommodation would be exclusive, but have since found that was not the case  which led 
to availability issues when trying to book accommodation.
So, Mr and Mrs G say that Business X misrepresented to them at the time of sale the nature 
of the product. Mr and Mrs G also say that, had they known what Business X had said 
wasnt right, they would not have purchased the timeshare in the first place.
Unhappy with what had happened at the Time of Sale, Mr and Mrs G  using a 
representative  wrote to GE Money in 2018 (the Letter of Claim) to make claims under:
(1) Section 75 of the CCA for misrepresentation; and 
(2) Section 140A of the CCA for an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
GE Money responded to say it didnt have any information on its systems about Mr and      
Mrs Gs loan due to the time that had passed and that the complaint had been brought too 
late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted 
that the loan proceeds had been paid to Business Y and not Business X, so it didnt think 
there was the right type of arrangement in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint. It 
also raised the issue of whether or not the complaint was within our jurisdiction as it felt it 
had been made too late. Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook says we cant look at a complaint made six 
years after the event complained of; or if later, three years from when the customer was 
aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. But GE Money has 
since rescinded this objection and consented to us looking into the complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. 
But as an informal resolution couldnt be agreed, the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
It should be noted that Mr and Mrs G changed their representative part way through the 
complaint process. I will acknowledge this by referring to them as representative and 
previous representative.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs G that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the right arrangement in place for Mr and Mrs G to make a claim under the CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same agreement is needed for the timeshare contract to be considered 
under s.140A CCA. GE Money has said that there was no such agreement in this case, as 
the supplier of the timeshare was Business X, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business Y, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that the right arrangement was in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Gs claim 
under s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the 
service (Business X) and the business that took the payment (Business Y). But it isnt 
necessary to make a formal finding on this point because, even if I did think the right 
arrangement was in place for the claim, I think GE Money has a complete defence to the 
claims under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs G say that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE 
Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would 
be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear 
however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs G may have to bring these claims 
has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if 
GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Gs claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be brought under s.2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued.As Mr and Mrs G made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA, its covered by s.9 
LA  which, means they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to 
make the claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. And in Mr and Mrs Gs case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or a like claim against GE Money. 
I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in July 
2008 as it was at that time that they entered into the agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business X.. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as 
they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued on 27 July 2008. And it was from 
then that Mr and Mrs G had six years from then to bring a claim. But as they didnt try to 
contact GE Money about their claim until August 2018, which was outside of the time limits 
set out in the LA, I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that, when considering s.140A, the time for limitation purposes ran from the date 
that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was made. As 
with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so Mr and Mrs G had to 
make their claim within six years of the end of the loan agreement. As the loan was set to 
run for three years, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, it probably ended in July 
2011  which means they had to make their claim by July 2017. As they didnt do that, I think 
they made their claim too late. And for that reason, I dont think GE Money needs to do 
anything further.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs Gs initial representative said that proper credit checks were not carried out. I 
cant see that Mr and Mrs G have provided much by way of further evidence about this in 
response to the adjudicators view. But, even if I were to find GE Money didnt do all that it 
should have when it agreed to lend, Id still need to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs G and they lost out as a result in order to uphold this part of his 
complaint.
I havent seen any supporting evidence to demonstrate that Mr and Mrs G were already 
struggling financially when GE Money lent to them. And as theres nothing to suggest that 
they struggled to meet the loan repayments, for example, or that they otherwise had financial 
problems during the relevant time, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold 
this part of the complaint.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that  Mr 
and Mrs G may have against the Business X or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs G might have 
against GE Money is likely to have been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And 
for that reason, Im not persuaded that GE Money needs to do anything to put things right in 
this complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman