DRN-3012576
The complaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc has been recording him as missing his 
payments when hes kept to a payment arrangement.
What happened
This complaint is about an HSBC credit card account.
Mr M fell into financial difficulties. With the help of a debt advice charity, he arranged 
reduced repayments.
Mr M has then made regular payments, but HSBC has instead recorded on his credit file that 
he has missed his payments each month. It argues that this is appropriate as he is not 
paying the minimum contractual amount.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. From what 
theyd found, it looked like HSBC had accepted the payment arrangement and Mr M had 
been keeping up with it. So they said HSBC should be recording that Mr M was in an 
arrangement to pay rather than that he was simply missing his payments.
HSBC didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as our investigator, and for 
much the same reasons.
HSBC has not been very clear about what happened here, and has not properly engaged 
with our investigators requests for information. However, from what it has sent us, it looks 
like it did broadly accept Mr Ms payment arrangement. And as far back as it has shown us, 
it looks like Mr M has kept up with that arrangement each month.
HSBC is technically correct that if Mr M is not making his minimum contractual repayment, 
then it can be counted as a missed payment. However, in this case Mr M has been making 
regular payments to bring down the debt. So it does not really reflect whats happening if 
HSBC simply records this on his credit file as a missed payment every month. That could 
potentially signify to lenders that hes failing to deal with the debt or even ignoring it.
In reality, it looks like Mr M has acted in good faith to pay what he can afford and deal with 
the debt. And that should be reflected in the way that HSBC reports things on his credit file.
If HSBC reports Mr M as being in an arrangement to pay instead, it could help signify to 
lenders that Mr M has been making efforts to pay off his debt and is keeping up with his 
arrangement. That could be looked at more favourably, and in any case would be a more 
accurate reflection of whats going on.
Indeed, HSBCs internal notes seem to show that it has realised that arrangement to pay 
markers would be better here. So its unclear why its not adjusted Mr Ms file accordingly.
Im disappointed that Mr M had to come this far to get such a simple issue sorted out. HSBC 
could have  and should have  sorted this out at a much earlier stage. I understand this has 
added to Mr Ms stress during an already difficult time, and has made it more difficult for him 
to repair his credit file. So I think HSBC should pay him some compensation for that.
Putting things right
I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Adjust Mr Ms credit file to use arrangement to pay markers for the months where 
hes been keeping up with his payment arrangement  both for previous months and 
going forward; and to-
Pay Mr M £100 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman