DRN-3211565
The complaint
Mr T complained about an unsatisfactory repair that was carried out on his vehicle by 
Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) under his motor policy.  
What happened
In September 2020, Mr Ts car was driven through some flood water. Mr T made a claim on 
his policy and the car was repaired at an Admiral approved garage.
After the repairs, Mr T drove his car for around for two months without experiencing any 
issues, but then his car broke down again. A car recovery service couldnt repair the vehicle, 
so it was recovered to the dealership where the car was purchased.
The dealership inspected Mr Ts vehicle, but it wouldnt cover the repairs under the vehicles 
warranty. The dealership considered the breakdown to be caused by previous water ingress 
to the engine. The dealership said Admiral hadnt repaired the vehicle properly after the 
initial flooding and the dealership said Admiral shouldve replaced the engine. Later, the 
dealership had tests carried out on oil and fuel samples from the vehicle and concluded the 
engine failed due to the water damage from the initial flooding.
Mr T raised a complaint with Admiral that the repair it did on his vehicle was inadequate. 
Admiral had an independent assessment of the vehicle carried out and concluded the 
problem with the vehicle was a mechanical fault not covered by the policy. It said it didnt see 
evidence water had entered the engine. So, Admiral wouldnt cover any further work to the 
vehicle under the policy.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He thought the test results provided by the 
dealership were more persuasive, so thought flood water was the cause of damage to the 
vehicles engine. He said Admiral should settle Mr Ts claim, refund the finance payments Mr 
T has paid since the car was damaged plus 8% simple interest per annum. He also awarded 
Mr T £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by Admiral for the 
mishandling of his claim. Admiral disagreed, so the case has been referred to an 
ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 29 November 2021. I said:
When Mr Ts car originally broke down, the car was repaired by an Admiral approved 
garage. So, the quality of the repair carried out is the responsibility of Admiral. Admiral has 
said the repair it did was done properly and said the second time Mr Ts car broke down was 
due to a mechanical failure. It said this later repair wasnt covered under the policy. Admiral 
has provided expert reports about the damage to the engine to show why it doesnt think it 
should cover Mr Ts claim. 
Mr T has provided reports from his dealership to substantiate why he thinks Admiral should 
cover his claim. I think both parties have been reasonable in putting forward expert reports to 
support their claims. I have reviewed the reports provided by both parties to determine which 
I think is more persuasive.
Admirals independent expert concluded we are of the opinion that as there is no indications 
of the vehicle having ingested water into the internal workings of the engine, the current 
issue appears to be mechanical failure of one or more components internally. Even though 
the work carried out in September 2020 was water related the methods required were 
external only with electrical components for the spark plugs required, therefore, we would 
advise this not to be an insurable event.
Both parties experts have reported that there is now no trace of water ingestion in or around 
the engine. This is after visually checking all entry points to the engine. However, due to the 
dispute on the cause of the damage and the known flooding issue, the dealership decided to 
do some further tests to understand better if there had been any water issues with the 
engine. I think this is a reasonable approach from the dealership given it was aware of the 
previous claim involving flood water. So, I have looked at what these investigations showed.
Mr Ts dealership took an oil and fuel sample from the engine and had it analysed in a 
laboratory. The report from the dealership included the numerical test readings and a 
summary of the results. Mr Ts dealership concluded that the results provided enough 
evidence to support its original diagnosis that the engine failed due to flood damage. The 
dealership said there was water and sodium in the engine oil which indicated high 
contamination in the engine oil. The dealership said, sodium is found in road salt with water 
present would support the claim for flood water entering the cylinder bores and ending in the 
oil sump. It said, water in the engine oil would result in premature wear of the engine 
component such as the main bearings and the vehicle had completed just over 800 miles 
from the spark plugs and coil pack replacement before the engine failed. If the engine oil 
was contaminated it would take around that mileage for the engine components to suffer 
wear due to poor lubrication.
Mr Ts dealership has provided evidence that goes beyond a visual inspection of the 
vehicles engine. It has carried out tests specifically to identify whether water had been 
ingested into the engine. I think Mr Ts dealership has provided evidence there was water 
ingested into the engine. Given these tests have gone further than a visual inspection, I find 
the results of these tests more persuasive.
I think the tests demonstrate there was water ingested into the engine. So, I think its most 
likely that the car wasnt properly fixed by Admiral. Therefore, I dont think Admiral has been 
fair in declining this claim. I think its more likely that water inside the engine caused it to fail 
rather than a mechanical failure, so I dont think the repair Admiral carried out following the 
first breakdown was effective in resolving the issue with the engine. As I dont think the initial 
repair was done properly, I think Admiral should still responsible for rectifying any issues with 
the car.
Admiral did challenge the validity of the results produced by Mr Ts dealership. However, Mr 
Ts dealership has cross referenced the results of the tests with the job card it raised for Mr 
Ts car, which incorporates his registration number, engine number and chassis number. I 
havent seen any alternate tests or evidence provided by Admiral that would make me think 
these more specific test results provided by Mr Ts dealership arent reliable or conclusive. 
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint; I intend to require Admiral to settle Mr Ts claim. 
Mr T has made finance payments on his car since the date it broke down even though he 
hasnt been able to use it. However, I can see Admiral did mitigate Mr Ts loss of use of his 
vehicle by providing him with a hire car until mid-Jan 2021. Therefore, in order to put Mr T 
back in  the position he wouldve been in if Admiral had acted fairly, I intend to ask Admiral to refund Mr Ts finance payments from the date he lost use of the hire car (mid-January 2021) 
to the date the claim is settled. Given Mr T has been without the use of his car, or without 
this money for this period, I intend to add 8% simple interest per annum to the finance 
payments I have asked Admiral to reimburse.
Mr T has told us how Admiral provided him with a hire car until mid-January 2021. However, 
Mr T has said how he has been inconvenienced since then. Mr T hasnt had access to his 
own car, or a hire car and he said he has been having to use his bike to get around or when 
hes been able to he has borrowed his wifes car. As Mr T has been without his own car for 
such a long period, I think he would have suffered considerable inconvenience. I think Mr T 
will have been distressed during the period of the claim, worrying his claim wouldnt be 
settled leaving him with potentially a significant financial loss. He has spent a lot of time 
trying to get his claim resolved and has needed to push both his dealership and Admiral 
throughout the process to get the right outcome. Given the considerable distress and 
inconvenience Mr T has suffered, I intend to ask Admiral to award £750 in compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr T accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything else to add.
Admiral disagreed with my findings and responded by making a number of the same points 
as made previously, so I wont repeat these. It did question why the dealership didnt carry 
out the specific oil test when it first inspected the vehicle.
Admiral said Mr T had not raised any complaint with us regarding finance payments or the 
fact he was paying them. Had he raised this, it would have been rejected regardless of the 
claim decision as these payments would need to be paid by Mr T regardless of the situation. 
This would be clarified in the terms and conditions he would have been supplied by the 
finance company.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral questioned why the dealership didnt carry out the specific oil test initially on 
inspecting the vehicle. I explained in my provisional decision that the dealership chose to do 
some more specific tests once it was clear there was a dispute with Admiral on the cause of 
the damage to the car. As Ive set out in my decision, I think this more specific test was a 
reasonable step to provide more compelling evidence.
Admiral doesnt think the reimbursement of the finance payments is fair. I dont agree, so I 
wont be changing my decision. Admiral were at fault in not settling the claim and were no 
longer providing a hire vehicle. I dont think its fair to expect Mr T to continue to make 
payments when he didnt have use of a car. So, I think its fair Admiral reimburse these costs 
from the period after it withdrew Mr Ts hire vehicle. 
Given that neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
  
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Settle Mr Ts claim
Reimburse Mr T for the finance payments he has made since he hasnt had access 
to his car or the hire car provided (mid-January 2021) to the date the claim is settled 
plus simple interest at 8% per annum
Pay Mr T £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience the delay in 
settling the claim has caused
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman