DRN-1862604
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc won't calculate the remaining term of his personal 
loan, if he were to make a lump sum payment, until such time as he's made the payment.
What happened
Mr T is considering making a significant lump sum payment towards the personal loan that 
he took out from HSBC in November 2019. He asked HSBC to provide him with a calculation 
of what this would mean for the amount of interest due on his loan and how it would reduce 
the number of payments he was required to make.
HSBC said that it couldn't do this until Mr T had actually made the repayment, as it didn't 
have the facility or tools to do so. What it could provide though was a redemption quote for 
the entire loan.
Mr T wasn't happy with this as he wanted to be sure that it was financially in his best 
interests to repay some of the loan early. And he couldn't be sure of this until he had the 
required calculation. So he complained to HSBC. 
HSBC explained that the interest calculations aren't simple. This is because with this type of 
fixed term personal loan, all the interest is added up front. When repayments start, a 
significant portion of the monthly instalments is interest. This reduces over time. And the 
capital repayments during the latter instalments of the loan are a much higher proportion of 
the repayment. The loan terms provide that if a lump sum repayment is made, then the term 
of the loan will be reduced but the monthly repayments will remain the same. Any refund of 
interest will then be applied to the loan at the end of its term.
Mr T was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this Service. Our investigator 
attempted to help Mr T get the calculation from HSBC. However, she accepted that this 
wasn't possible as HSBC didn't have the facility to provide this pre-repayment. So she didn't 
uphold Mr T's complaint.
Mr T asked for an ombudsman's decision. He said that he needs to be able to check HSBC's 
calculations before paying off a proportion of the loan to be sure that this is the best action 
for him to take. He also thinks it's only fair that he knows in advance how the repayment will 
affect the interest payable. Mr T's also concerned that he only got a two-month payment 
holiday rather than the three months promised. And he can't understand why HSBC's full 
redemption calculation is different to what he's calculated. Overall, he doesn't think 
HSBC are being transparent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm afraid that Mr T will be disappointed to hear that I don't think his complaint should be 
upheld. I'll explain why.I've looked at the details of Mr T's personal loan and what he was told in the terms of the 
loan agreement. I'll start by saying that I fully understand Mr T's frustration. He wants to 
decide whether it's financially beneficial for him to pay part of the loan early. And he can't be 
sure of that unless he is to know what the effect on the interest payable will be if he does.
The difficulty here is that this isn't something that HSBC has the standard capacity to do. 
Unlike a loan where the interest is applied on a daily basis and is added to the account at the 
end of each month, the entire interest on Mr T's loan for the 60-month period is added 
upfront. This was set out clearly in the key terms of the loan agreement. So for a £25,000 
loan, interest of £4,672 is payable.
HSBC has explained that the way the loan repayments work is that a large part of the £494 
odd that's payable each month is interest at the start, and this reduces over time. So the 
longer the loan goes on, the more of the £25,000 capital that will be repaid. For example, for 
the first payment due from Mr T in February 2020, almost the entire amount will have been 
interest. That's because three months' interest had accrued as a result of his initial payment 
holiday.
I understand that the formula applied to this is complicated. And the interest is not 
necessarily applied equally across the term of the loan. So whilst HSBC is able to give an 
annual percentage rate (APR) calculation of 6.7% for the loan, that's not an exact rate as it 
will all depend on when the loan is repaid. And this will be reliant on whether payments are 
made regularly on time and whether there are any payment holidays, like Mr T took at the 
start here.
So having considered this, I can't say it's unreasonable that HSBC don't have the ability to 
provide these calculations easily upfront. I appreciate how Mr T feels about this. But the loan 
agreement is quite clear in its terms and it's not unfair for HSBC to have expected its 
customers to read those. The key terms are included at the start and the agreement does 
say how interest is to be calculated in the event of an early repayment. In particular the 
agreement says:
'Although the amount you borrow and repay is fixed, you can repay the loan, or part of it, 
early. If you repay part of the loan early, the overall cost will usually be reduced. Your 
monthly repayment will stay the same but you may repay the loan faster.'
'If you repay the loan in full, the overall cost will usually be reduced. However, the 
regulations we use to revise the amount of interest you need to pay because of your early 
repayment assume that you repay the loan at a date which may be later than the actual date 
on which you make your early repayment. The formula works as if we charged interest at the 
rate that applies to the loan from the date we gave you the loan to the date which is 28 days 
after you give us notice, plus an additional month if your loan is repayable over a period of 
more than 12 months. For example, if the loan is for 36 months and you give us notice on 1 
September that you want to repay the loan on 14 September, the amount required to repay 
the loan will include interest up to 29 October.'
So, the interest calculation is clearly not as simple as knowing when the payment is to be 
made and then calculating any rebate due. I understand Mr T's concern about the lack of 
transparency in how this works. And I agree that it would be better if HSBC were able to 
provide a detailed calculation for their customers in these circumstances. But I can't say that 
they've acted unfairly in following the procedures that they have in place in Mr T's 
circumstances. If their systems don't allow them to do this, there was nothing more that they 
could do for Mr T here.I would however recommend that HSBC consider whether this is something that it could look 
at putting in place for other customers in the future. People's circumstances do change over 
time and it's not unusual that customers may want to know in advance what the effect of 
making a repayment would be on the interest chargeable for this type of loan.
Mr T has said he's worried that HSBC's redemption calculation is different to what he'd 
calculated. I can't really comment on why that may be as the formula here is clearly 
complicated. But it may have something to do with the additional interest payable as per the 
terms of the agreement I've set out above. The compounding of interest over time may also 
have had an effect. 
Finally, Mr T doesn't think he got the three-month payment holiday that he agreed.  His loan 
was paid into his account at the end of November 2019 and the first payment was to be 
made at the end of February. So that is three months later. Perhaps Mr T thought that as the 
repayment would normally be due at the end of the first month, this would mean his first 
repayment, when delayed by three months, would be in March. But the first repayment date 
is clearly set out as February in the agreement. So I don't think that HSBC has acted unfairly 
in taking the first payment in February when it did.
If Mr T is unhappy with the calculations that he receives if and when he is to make a lump 
sum payment, then it will be open to him to raise that with HSBC. If he's unhappy with its 
response then he may bring a further complaint to this service. But on the basis of what 
HSBC has done to date, and the information about this that it provided to Mr T upfront in the 
loan agreement, I won't be upholding his complaint
My final decision
It's my final decision not to uphold this complaint and I don't require that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
needs to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman