DRN-3855806
The complaint
Miss S complains that the amount esure Insurance Company Limited (trading as Sheilas 
Wheels) offered to settle her motor insurance claim is too low.
References to esure include its agents. 
What happened
In mid-2022, Miss S made a claim under her motor insurance policy with esure, after her 
vehicle was damaged in an accident. 
esure deemed the vehicle a total loss. It initially offered to settle the claim based on a pre-
accident valuation of £7,800, but later revised this to a value of £8,199.
Miss S complained to esure because she didnt think its valuation was fair. However, esure 
maintained its position, so she asked our service to consider her complaint.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied esure had acted in line with the policys terms and its settlement 
offer was fair.
Miss S disagreed with our investigators outcome. She referred to price guides and adverts 
she provided which she felt evidenced that the valuation should be higher. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint.
The policys terms and conditions say esure will not pay more than the market value of your 
car at the time of loss, less the total excess.
Market value is defined as the amount you could reasonably have expected to sell your 
vehicle for on the open market immediately before your accident or loss. Our assessment of 
the value is based on vehicles of the same make and model and of a similar age, condition 
and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based on research from motor 
trade guides including: Glasss, Parkers and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when 
you purchased the car.
esure says it used four industry trade guides to assess the pre-accident market value of  
Miss Ss vehicle. Its provided screenshots of the valuations which are £7,140, £8,622, 
£7,915 and £8,061. esure disregarded the lowest guide price and based its valuation on an 
average of the remaining three.
I think its reasonable for the market value to be assessed as the retail price Miss S was 
likely to have to pay for a comparable vehicle at a reputable dealer. The fairest way of doing 
this is by using the standard industry guides. These are based on extensive national 
research of likely selling prices. They can provide valuations based on the make, model, 
age, condition and specification of a car. 
Miss S has provided screenshots of valuations she completed herself and has asked why 
they were excluded from esures valuation as she believes they would bring up the average. 
However, the screenshots shes provided show a range of values. Although the higher 
figures in each valuation are above the amount esure has offered, the lower figures are 
below it. So, this doesnt persuade me that esures valuation is wrong. 
Miss S says she was unable to source a vehicle with the amount esure offered and has 
provided adverts for similar vehicles. Our service doesnt normally use adverts to decide 
whether a valuation is fair. This is because vehicles can end up being sold for lower than 
they were advertised. And differences in mileage or year of registration can have a big effect 
on the value of the same model of vehicle. 
Miss S has referred to wording on our website which says: you should be aware that more 
recently, weve been told by some trade guides that generally cars are selling at or close to 
advertised prices.
However, our website also explains that were likely to agree with a businesss valuation if 
the amount is in line with the guide.  Our service has completed our own checks using the 
guides available to us, including one of the guides Miss S provided a screenshot for. Having 
reviewed these, Im satisfied esures valuation is a fair reflection of the pre-accident market 
value of Miss Ss vehicle.
Miss S has also commented that esure offering an extremely low price and then slightly 
increasing it seems to be in breach of policy guidelines. However, Ive already explained why 
I think esures second offer was reasonable. And, while its first offer appears to be lower 
than it should have been, the revised offer was made a couple of weeks after Miss S made 
her claim. So, I dont think there was an unreasonable delay in offering Miss S a fair 
settlement.  
I know my answer will be disappointing for Miss S, but overall, I think esure has acted fairly 
and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman