DRN-3833236
The complaint
Mr T complains about the benefit hes been paid by The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited 
(TSFS) for an incapacity claim he made on a personal income protection insurance policy.
What happened
Mr T took out a personal income protection insurance policy in August 2021. Unfortunately, 
in September 2021, he suffered an accident and was signed-off work with resulting back 
pain. He made an incapacity claim on his income protection insurance policy.
TSFS investigated Mr Ts claim. Ultimately, it decided to void the policy from the start, as it 
didnt think Mr T had fully disclosed his medical history to it when he applied for the policy.
Mr T asked us to look into a complaint about TSFS decision to cancel his policy. Our 
investigator didnt think TSFS had fairly voided the policy. Amongst his recommendations 
were recommendations that TSFS should reinstate the policy and assess Mr Ts incapacity 
claim, and that it should pay Mr T compensation. Both parties accepted the investigators 
assessment, and the complaint was settled in June 2022.
TSFS considered Mr Ts incapacity claim. In July 2022, it agreed to accept the claim and pay 
benefit for the period 23 September until 21 October 2021 and it also added interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple to the settlement. However, it didnt think that Mr T had provided 
enough medical evidence to show hed been incapacitated from performing his own 
occupation after that date. It noted too that while it had been entitled to deduct Mr Ts 
backdated premiums from the claim amount and to deduct the sick pay Mr T had received 
during that period, it hadnt done so.
Mr T was unhappy with TSFS decision and so he asked us to look into a new complaint 
about the settlement hed been paid.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. While he accepted Mr T had 
been provided with fit notes from his GP showing that he wasnt fit for work until May 2022, 
he didnt think these were sufficient evidence of continuing incapacity. He noted that after Mr 
Ts initial consultation with the GP in September 2021, there was no evidence of further 
medical review. And he didnt think there was enough evidence to show that Mr T had 
remained incapacitated beyond 21 October 2021. So he thought TSFS had settled Mr Ts 
claim fairly.
Mr T disagreed and Ive summarised his response. An occupational health adviser had 
recommended that as his employer couldnt amend his duties; he should do his own 
exercises and stretch at home. Hed lost his job in December 2021, as well as experiencing 
other significant life events (including the policy voidance), which was circumstantial 
evidence of his incapacity. 
He felt that the fit notes hed provided were evidence of his continued incapacity. And he 
didnt think TSFS had taken steps, such as organising an assessment of his capabilities, to 
assess his incapacity. He felt the decision to void the policy had adversely affected his ability 
to obtain further evidence. He considered that TSFS had placed hurdles in the way to avoid 
paying out and that it should pay compensation for the time it had taken to pay out on the 
claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr T, I think TSFS has settled his claim fairly 
and Ill explain why.
First, its important that I explain that this decision will only consider whether TSFS has now 
settled Mr Ts claim fairly. A complaint about the policy voidance and the impact of it upon Mr 
T has already been considered by our service - settlement was agreed and paid. I 
understand that that settlement included compensation for TSFS decision to void the policy. 
So I wont be looking at anything that weve already considered or thats already been 
settled.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Ts policy and the medical evidence, to decide whether TSFS has settled his 
claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr T and TSFS. Mr T made a claim for incapacity benefit, given he wasnt fit for 
work. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for TSFS to consider whether Mr Ts 
claim was covered by the policy terms. These say that TSFS will pay a monthly benefit if a 
policyholder is incapacitated by illness or injury, and Ive set out the relevant term below:
For the purposes of the contract between you and us, you suffer from an Incapacity and are 
Incapacitated if you are not fit and able to work in your Own Occupation as a result of 
physical or mental injury or illness, provided such physical or mental illness is not excluded 
by paragraph 2.2, or 2.3 below
TSFS has defined what it means by Fit and Able in the policy as follows:
Fit and able. Whether you are fit and able to work in your Own Occupation is a question of 
fact. We will determine this question by reference to the evidence you provide and in 
consultation with any medical and employment advisers who we may choose to instruct. In 
the event of a dispute, the opinion of our advisors will be final.
This means that in order for TSFS to pay incapacity benefit, it must be satisfied that its a 
policyholders illness or injury which prevents them from carrying out their own occupation. In 
Mr Ts case, it means that TSFS needed to be satisfied that his injury prevented him from 
performing his own occupation and if so, how long for.
Its a general principle of insurance that its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. This means it was Mr Ts responsibility to provide TSFS with enough 
evidence to demonstrate that his injury had led to him not being fit and able to carry out his 
own role during the relevant period. While Mr T may have liked TSFS to appoint an 
independent doctor or other specialist to examine him to verify the nature and severity of his 
injury, I dont think it was required to do so in these circumstances.In this case, TSFS backdated assessment of the claim acknowledged that Mr T had 
provided enough medical evidence to show he was incapacitated until 21 October 2021. But 
it didnt think there was enough medical evidence to show Mr T had been incapacitated after 
that date. So Ive gone on to think about whether this was a fair conclusion for TSFS to draw.
Like the investigator, Ive looked carefully at the available evidence, including Mr Ts GP 
records and the fit notes hes provided. Its clear that the GP signed off Mr T off as unfit to 
work with low back pain for several months longer than TSFS considered hed been 
incapacitated for in line with the policy terms. 
The GP notes show that following the accident, Mr T was attended to by paramedics. On 21 
September 2021, Mr T saw his GP, who carried out an examination and prescribed Mr T 
painkillers. But theres no evidence to suggest that Mr T saw his GP again after this date 
with symptoms of back pain; that he was prescribed any further medication or that he was 
ultimately referred elsewhere for other treatment to aid his recovery.
While I think it was appropriate for TSFS to consider the fit notes Mr T provided, I dont think 
it was required to do so in isolation. I think it was reasonably entitled to consider the wider 
available medical evidence and to rely on the clinical opinion of its internal advisors, to 
decide first, if benefit was payable and, if so, for how long. The GP hasnt indicated on the fit 
notes how or why Mr Ts symptoms wouldve left him unfit or unable to work in his own 
occupation. And in the absence of evidence of further GP consultation, examination or 
follow-up during the relevant time, I dont think it was unfair for TSFS to conclude that Mr T 
hadnt shown that he was unfit to work after 21 October 2021. It took into account the 
general expected recovery time of 21 days for such an injury when making its claims 
decision and I dont find theres enough, detailed medical evidence available here to negate 
such a conclusion. 
I appreciate that Mr T underwent a consultation with an occupational health adviser in 
November 2022. But Im mindful that by Mr Ts own account, this assessment took place 
over the phone, which means there was necessarily no actual, physical examination of Mr T 
or his capabilities. And having looked at a copy of the resulting report, it appears the advisor 
concluded that Mr T would be fit to work if he could undertake the administrative side of his 
role for up to a month. Overall, I dont think this assessment provides definitive or compelling 
evidence that Mr T continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity after October 2021.
As such then, in my view, TSFS didnt act unreasonably or unfairly when it concluded that Mr 
T had only demonstrated incapacity in line with the policy terms between 24 September and 
21 October 2021. 
Its clear that Mr T has real concerns that the delay in the acceptance of his claim prejudiced 
TSFS consideration of it. Id like to reassure Mr T that I dont consider this to be likely. Im 
satisfied TSFS relied appropriately on the available medical evidence to assess Mr Ts claim. 
I dont think it was required to arrange an independent assessment for Mr T and nor do I 
think that the initial voidance of the policy precluded Mr T from seeking further treatment 
elsewhere or following-up with his GP if hed felt it necessary. Indeed, it remains open to Mr 
T to obtain further medical evidence in support of his claim from the GP and to send this on 
to TSFS for its consideration should he wish to do so.
I do have a great deal of sympathy with Mr Ts position, as hes told us hes been through a 
difficult and stressful time. But I think the policy makes it clear that TSFS will only pay benefit 
for the period a policyholder is incapacitated. And in this case, I dont think TSFS has acted 
unfairly on relying on the available medical evidence to conclude that Mr T was no longer 
incapacitated after 21 October 2021. Id add too that TSFS was entitled to require Mr T to 
repay any premiums hed been refunded for the period the policy was cancelled and during 
the life of the claim  or to deduct these from the settlement. It decided against doing so. And it also appears that TSFS didnt deduct the sick-pay Mr T was paid by his employer from 
the claim settlement, even though it was contractually entitled to do so.  In my view, this was 
a very fair response from TSFS.
Overall, Ive decided that TSFS doesnt need to pay Mr T anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman