DRN-2958203
The complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) asked inappropriate 
questions.
 
What happened
Mr F had a credit card with Halifax. The balance in February 2021 was £1565 debit. He was 
unemployed. He called Halifax four times on 15 February 2021 to discuss whether the 
interest rate on the card could be reduced or frozen. He was represented by his wife on the 
calls.
Mr F is represented by his wife in this complaint. He complained that Halifax asked 
inappropriate questions into his personal circumstances regarding his finances and health.
Halifax said theyd listened to the calls and said their advisor followed their processes 
correctly. They asked questions about Mr Fs income and expenditure before they could find 
the best solution for him. This can take up to an hour. They couldnt agree to stop the 
interest rate on the credit card without going through this process. They also said that the 
language used by Mrs F on the call wasnt appreciated, accepting that this was a stressful 
time.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Halifax had followed their 
processes  these were common among financial businesses to better understand 
customers circumstances. Only then could they decide to freeze interest on Mr Fs card, or 
not. Hed listened to the calls and while he could understand Mrs Fs frustration, he didnt 
think the questions asked by Halifax were unreasonable and might take a long time. 
Mr F asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint was brought by Mr F. He is represented by Mrs F, and she was also leading 
the calls to Halifax. So  I will refer to Mr F, but the interaction with Halifax was largely with 
Mrs F. I can see that Mr F says that the questions asked by Halifax were too personal and 
intrusive. He says they were illegal. 
Let me say that our service exists to resolve individual dispute, on an informal basis, 
between customers and financial businesses. We are not able to take legal action against 
banks  although our final decisions are legally binding on them if theyre accepted by 
consumers. In general, we are not able to interfere with Halifaxs processes and procedures 
 but we do ensure theyve been used fairly and reasonably. So  my decision should be 
read with this in mind.
Ive listened to all five calls between Mr F (represented by his wife) on 15 February 2021. 
They lasted a total of two hours. Regarding the first call (17 minutes including wait time), 
Halifax acknowledged theyd not dealt with the security questions very well, apologised and 
paid compensation plus the cost of the call  a total of £17. But  I think this did tend to set 
the tone for the next three calls. And the resolution of the first problem took up most of the 
second call of 31 minutes. The third (33 minutes) and fourth calls (41 minutes)  were the 
important calls in the context of this complaint. Mr F asks for a reduction or freezing of the 
interest rate on his card  as he was unemployed since October 2020 and had been getting 
universal credit since January 2021. Between them, Mr and Mrs Fs joint income had gone 
down by 50%. So  they needed help. 
The calls were taken by Halifaxs financial assistance team. At the start of the third call, the 
call handler read out a script which said he would be asking personal questions about Mr Fs 
financial situation and his circumstances  and he needed the answers to these before being 
able to give support. If the questions couldnt be answered, then a solution may not be 
possible. Mr F agreed to this. Halifax asked Mr F about his employment situation  and Mr F 
told them he was clinically extremely vulnerable. Halifax said that it was necessary to get 
that information, as it helped them understand its impact on his financial situation. Mr F 
confirmed it was OK to note this on his file. The call handler also pointed to debt charities 
that might help.
On the fourth call (Halifax called Mr F back), the call handler wanted to go through Mr Fs 
income and expenditure. He said the process might take up to an hour. Mr F agreed that the 
details were to be noted and retained. About halfway through this call, Mrs F became 
frustrated at the length of time the whole process was taking. Eventually, the call handler 
terminated the call and arranged a call from his manager. This took place later that day  
and the manager said the call handler acted appropriately in asking the questions. She also 
said Halifax wouldnt tolerate Mrs Fs behaviour on the call.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration on the call  the whole process did take two hours. 
Clearly he believed that it didnt need to take so long, and that the questions werent needed. 
I could sense Mrs Fs mounting frustration. But equally, Halifax do have a process to follow 
when they are dealing with customers in financial difficulty. They want to ensure they are 
doing the right things for their customers  and unfortunately, this does involve asking the 
questions they did. And  thats what they did here. Mr F considers that the questions about 
his health werent relevant  that it was enough to say what his condition was, and no more. 
But  the call handler was asking if and how this affected Mr Fs ability to deal with his debts. 
I dont see therefore that this aspect of the questioning wasnt appropriate. The calls then 
went onto look at Mr Fs income and expenditure in detail  again, to understand how much 
Mr F could afford to pay  and therefore what Halifax might be able to agree to. And  Mr F 
agreed to go through the questions at the outset, and that the details could be noted on his 
file.
But  as I said, unfortunately, this all led to a high level of frustration on the part of Mr F. But 
Halifax were following their processes, and so I cant say that what they did was wrong. And 
 I found their call handlers to be clear in their communications, and polite. So  I think they 
implemented their processes fairly and reasonably. Mr F had said he thinks the questions 
were illegal  I cant comment on that, because thats for a court to decide, not this service. 
But I do think they were practical and necessary questions to ask from Halifaxs point of 
view.
I sense that Mr F will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not going to ask Halifax to do 
anymore here. 
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman