DRN-4083952
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with the service he received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
while in branch.
What happened
Mr T went in Halifax branch to make a transfer of £60,000 and took with him several identity 
documents to enable Halifax to do so. However, Halifax told Mr T that they were unable to 
complete the transfer because Mr T didnt have his Halifax debit card with him. Mr T wasnt 
happy about this, especially as he had checked exactly what he would need to bring to 
branch beforehand, and he felt that Halifaxs staff were discriminating against him because 
of his nationality. So, he raised a complaint.
Halifax responded to Mr Ts complaint and explained that their branch staff had followed the 
correct process in declining to complete the transfer and so they didnt feel theyd acted 
unfairly towards Mr T as he maintained. However, Halifax acknowledged that they hadnt 
responded to Mr Ts complaint as quickly as they should have done, and they apologised to 
Mr T for this and made a payment of £50 to him as compensation for any upset or 
inconvenience this may have caused. Mr T wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Halifax had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Halifax have acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. Such declarations would 
be for a regulatory body or a Court of Law to potentially make. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Halifax have confirmed that the reason they declined to complete Mr Ts requested transfer 
was because their high-value transfer process includes that verification of an account 
holders signature is required  which Halifax werent able to do because they didnt hold a 
signature on file for Mr T. This meant that Halifax were unable to verify the signatures on the 
identity documents that Mr T presented to them. And it was for this reason that Halifax asked 
Mr T to present his Halifax debit card to them  which would allow Halifax to verify Mr Ts 
signature using the signature on the back of the debit card.
It isnt for this service to instruct a bank such as Halifax to amend or bypass its operational 
processes. But it is within the remit of this service to assess whether its felt the following of 
an operational process has led to an unfair outcome. 
However, in this instance, I dont feel that Halifaxs following the process that it did, which 
resulted in it declining to complete Mr Ts transfer request, has led to an unfair outcome. And 
this is because I feel that the rationale behind the process that Halifax followed  which is in 
place to ensure the safety of an account holders money and to prevent potential illegitimate 
persons from accessing an account and moving money out of it  should reasonably take 
precedence over any inconvenience and frustration that Mr T may have experienced.  
Mr T may argue that the identity documents he took to branch should have been sufficient 
for Halifax to confirm his identity. But its for Halifax to set the parameters of what they 
require to verify a persons identity to their own satisfaction. And, given the increasing 
sophistication of attempted scams and fraudsters, I dont feel that it would be reasonable for 
this service to tell a bank such as Halifax that members of its staff should have made an 
exception to one of its own processes which is designed to protect Halifaxs customers 
money as well as Halifaxs own liability against potential illegitimate payments  such that its 
staff should have handled a particular instance of attempted identity verification differently.
Additionally, while I appreciate Mr Ts frustration at not being able to complete the transfer as 
he wanted while in branch, he was able to complete the transfer via his online banking over 
three tranches in the following days. And so, Im satisfied that there was no detriment to Mr T 
beyond the inconvenience he incurred by not being able to complete the transfer in branch, 
which, as explained, I dont feel was unfair because of the importance of the process that 
Halifaxs staff were following.
Mr T notes that he checked Halifaxs website before going into branch and took documents 
with him in line with Halifaxs requirements as stated on their website, including his Halifax 
bank statement. But Halifax dispute this point, and their branch staff recall that Mr T had 
brought his bank statement and debit card from another bank, which Mr T explained to them 
he used as his primary account for everyday banking. However, I feel this is largely a moot 
point because I remain satisfied that it was within Halifaxs remit to require the verification of 
Mr Ts signature to their own satisfaction, as Ive explained above.
As alluded to previously, this isnt to say that Mr T wasnt inconvenienced by what happened 
here, and I accept that he was. But it is to say that I dont feel that the inconvenience or 
frustration that Mr T encountered should be considered as unfair or unreasonable. Rather, I 
feel that it was unfortunately a necessary inconvenience, given Halifaxs reasonable 
requirement for a signature verification in light of the large nature of the payment that Mr T 
wanted to make. 
Finally, Mr T feels that, in acting as they did, Halifaxs staff discriminated against him 
because of his nationality. I appreciate that Mr T may feel this way. But having looked at all 
the evidence I dont think Halifax have done so. One reason I say this is because I feel, 
given that Halifaxs staff were following a set process, that Halifax would have acted in the 
same way towards any customer  regardless of nationality  if they couldnt verify that 
customers signature to their satisfaction, as was the case here. I hope it helps Mr T to know 
that someone impartial and independent has looked at this aspect of his complaint.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but it follows from all the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Halifax to take any further action. I hope Mr T 
will understand, given everything Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman