DRN-3503574
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that when Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) transferred her 
pension to a new provider, the transfer value paid was that on the day the transfer had been 
requested, not the value on the day the funds were actually transferred. 
What happened
Mrs P had a self invested personal pension (SIPP) with Aviva. She requested a transfer 
value in May 2020 which was £158,808.08. Mrs P subsequently decided to transfer her 
pension fund to a new provider. Aviva received the transfer request on 27 October 2020 
from the receiving scheme via the Origo system. 
Mrs Ps Aviva arrangement had protected tax free cash which would be lost on transfer. 
Aviva had to write to Mrs P to make sure she knew that. Avivas letter of 13 November 2020 
gave a current (as at 12 November 2020) fund value of £180,450.45 with protected tax free 
cash of £52,732.49. The letter said that value was subject to change as the fund value 
fluctuated. And that Aviva would proceed with the transfer if it didnt hear back from Mrs P 
within two weeks. Mrs P didnt contact Aviva during that period and Aviva processed the 
transfer request on 24 November 2020. Aviva wrote to Mrs P to confirm that £165,404.91 
had been transferred to the new provider. 
Mrs P was unhappy that the transfer value was about £15,000 less than shed been 
expecting and when Avivas letter of 13 November 2020 about the protected tax free cash 
had quoted a fund value of £180,450.45. 
Aviva didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. It said the value from the request date is used to 
make sure the customer doesnt receive less than they were expecting if the value drops. 
But Mrs Ps value had increased between the date the transfer request was received and the 
date of the transfer which had led to her being disappointed with the amount paid. Aviva did 
agree there was room for improvement in the letter sent to Mrs P on 13 November 2020 and 
that, in future, the letter should contain both the current value and the transfer value that 
would be paid. As it had taken Aviva longer than eight weeks to response to the complaint a 
cheque for £100 was sent to Mrs P. 
Mrs P remained unhappy and referred her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary he said using the valuation as at 
the date the transfer was requested meant there was no loss between then and the transfer. 
And Aviva had a process to deal with any significant difference between the amount 
requested by the receiving scheme and the amount actually transferred. Aviva had to write 
to Mrs P about the protected tax free cash and then wait a minimum of two weeks before 
going ahead with the transfer. Aviva had said that its letter couldve been clearer and 
couldve shown the actual transfer value. But Aviva had advised Mrs P about the potentially 
higher tax free cash that would be lost on transfer and had applied their normal terms and 
conditions by using the transfer value on the date the transfer request was received. 
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators view. She said Aviva had misled her in three ways: 
first, by not writing to her to confirm the transfer had been requested by the new provider and 
saying what the transfer value was going to be and that it was frozen unless she cancelled 
the transfer; secondly, the website continued to show her plan value was going up and down 
in line with stock market movements; thirdly, the letter about the protected tax free cash 
amount confirmed the fund value she was seeing via the website. Mrs P said, if shed been 
given the correct information, shed have been able to make a decision about if the transfer 
should proceed or not. She said Aviva shouldve written to her confirming the transfer value 
was fixed and what it was; ensured that the website showed the fixed value; and the letter 
about the protected tax free cash shouldve been based on the fixed transfer value. 
The investigator made some further enquiries of Aviva before writing to Mrs P again, setting 
out his further findings. He explained that the transfer was instigated by the receiving 
provider via Origo  an industrywide system used in transferring funds from one provider to 
another and aimed at saving paperwork and administration. Aviva were effectively just 
administrators, completing the request to transfer the funds. Had Mrs P contacted Aviva for a 
quotation all the relevant information wouldve been provided. 
Aviva did have to contact Mrs P about her protected tax free cash. The price on the previous 
day was used. The letter didnt show what Mrs P would actually get, just that the tax free 
cash entitlement exceeded 25%. And Mrs P could see her fund value fluctuating on the 
online portal which led her to believe shed get a higher value than she did. But that went 
back to the same issue  that Aviva wasnt obliged to tell her that as they were just 
administering the Origo transfer request. A locked in value for transfers was used throughout 
the industry and protected consumers against falling markets while the transfer was being 
processed. Had Mrs Ps fund value fallen, shed have got the higher value. Aviva wouldve 
made the locked in value clear had Mrs P contacted them. And, if an independent financial 
adviser had been dealing with the transfer, theyd also have explained the process. 
In response Mrs P said, ignoring the impact of the Origo system, after the transfer had been 
initiated, Aviva had continued to provide her with information about the value of her pension 
fund which changed daily. The information was wrong and didnt reflect the fact that the fund 
value had been fixed. She made decisions on the basis of the information provided by Aviva 
and ultimately lost money as a result.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and although I can understand why Mrs P is aggrieved, I agree with the 
views the investigator expressed and the reasons he gave as to why he didnt think Mrs Ps 
complaint should be upheld. 
Aviva has explained that it uses the earliest viable date for the transfer  the date Avivas 
requirements are complete. Here that was the day Aviva received the transfer request  
when the provider requesting the transfer supplied all the information Aviva needed to action 
the transfer. As the transfer value was within 10% of the value indicated on the transfer 
request and the valuation Mrs P had received earlier that year there was no need for Aviva 
to contact Mrs P to make sure that she still wanted to go ahead.   
But Aviva did have to warn Mrs P that, if she transferred, shed lose her protected tax free 
cash entitlement. And, during the period between Aviva having received the transfer request and writing to Mrs P about her protected tax free cash, there was an unusually large fund 
value fluctuation and Mrs Ps fund value showed an substantial increase. Which she didnt 
get the benefit of when the transfer was later completed. I can understand Mrs Ps 
disappointment. And why she considers she wasnt in a position to make an informed 
decision about whether to proceed with the transfer. But, although what happened in Mrs Ps 
case was unfortunate, I dont think its the case that Aviva misled her. 
The transfer was undertaken via Origo. That system aims to streamline transfers, cut down 
on paperwork and administration and avoid delays. If Mrs Ps transfer had gone through 
within a few days or so of Aviva receiving the transfer request via Origo then thered have 
been no issues. And if the transfer value had fallen then Mrs Ps position wouldve been 
protected too. 
As the investigator explained, the transfer was initiated by the receiving scheme and Aviva 
was simply administering the transfer. And, because Mrs P didnt initiate the transfer with 
Aviva, she didnt get all the information that Aviva wouldve provided as to how the transfer 
would be processed etc. As things stood, Aviva was unaware of what the receiving scheme 
may have told Mrs P about the transfer and how it would work. As Aviva has pointed out, 
thered be little point in using the Origo system if the transferring scheme (here Aviva) had to 
contact the consumer to verify all the details and explain everything.   
Ive considered very carefully the letter Aviva sent to Mrs P on 13 November 2020 about her 
protected tax free cash. I can see why the letter may have caused Mrs P some confusion 
and/or raised her expectations about the transfer value that Aviva would be paying. The 
letter enclosed an up to date fund value. The letter didnt make it clear that the transfer value 
had already been set, based on the fund value as at 27 October 2020, the date that Aviva 
received the transfer request and all Avivas requirements were met. 
I note that in its final response letter Aviva accepted that there was room for improvement 
with the letter  Aviva said it should contain both the current value and the value that would 
be paid if the transfer went ahead. I think if thats possible that would be helpful and would 
prevent further cases such as this where the fund value increases in the interim and the 
customer doesnt get the higher transfer amount. I bear in mind too that, although the 
transfer wasnt instigated by Aviva and its role was largely administrative, warning Mrs P 
about the loss of her protected tax free cash if she transferred was Avivas responsibility and 
exactly what the letter said and what information it contained was down to Aviva. 
But I accept that the letter was only supposed to be a guide. And it set out what Mrs P would 
be entitled to in terms of protected tax free cash had she remained with Aviva and not 
transferred away. So logically the higher fund value was used. The same is true of the online 
portal  it continued to show the up to date fund value and Mrs Ps entitlement with Aviva. I 
dont agree that, after the transfer was initiated, Aviva provided Mrs P with incorrect 
information about her fund value. The information Mrs P had wasnt incorrect  the online 
portal reflected the up to date value of her fund and Mrs P wouldve been entitled to that 
value had she not transferred away from Aviva. Although I accept that it wasnt clear that 
Aviva would use a different, earlier, value if the transfer actually went ahead. 
On balance, I think the information Aviva provided was adequate, taking into account its role 
in the transfer and how the Origo system operated and even if Avivas letter about the 
protected tax free cash couldve contained more information. 
Given my findings Im not going to say that Aviva needs to pay any compensation to Mrs P. 
But Id point out that her claim  for the difference between what was quoted to her and what 
was actually paid  isnt the basis on which wed usually award compensation. Where wrong 
or incomplete information is given wed look at what the consumers position wouldve been, had they been given all the necessary information. In some circumstances, even if we think 
there was a failing by a business, we might say that the consumers position wouldnt have 
been any different or that they hadnt suffered any financial loss. 
Mrs P says she wasnt put in an informed position to decide if she wanted to go ahead with 
the transfer. And that she wouldnt have proceeded if shed have known the transfer value 
was substantially lower than the current fund value. I bear in mind that shed apparently 
decided that she wanted to move away from Aviva. I think its likely shed have ended up 
transferring anyway. The timing of any later transfer cant be ascertained. Timing a transfer 
to maximise the value available wouldve been very difficult. And I dont know if, longer term, 
the increase in fund value wouldve been sustained or if the fund value wouldve fallen back 
again. And, if the new arrangement has outperformed the Aviva SIPP, any losses may have 
been made up so that, overall, Mrs P hasnt suffered any loss anyway. 
I do have sympathy for Mrs P. But on balance for the reasons Ive explained Im not 
upholding her complaint. If she has any concerns about what she was told or not told about 
how the transfer would operate, she may want to raise these with the receiving scheme. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman