DRN-1270103
 
The complaint
Miss H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) took the wrong 
amount from her bank account when she wanted to clear her credit card balance.  
What happened
Miss H phoned Barclaycard to make a payment to clear her credit card balance. But the 
bank only took £1 from her bank account, rather than the full amount she owed. 
Miss H didn't realise what had happened until the following month. By that time she'd spent 
the money in her bank account. Miss H says it will cause her financial difficulty if she now 
has to pay what she owes. She considers Barclaycard should write off the balance.
Barclaycard accepted it had made a mistake by taking the wrong amount from Miss H's bank 
account. It offered £50 for the inconvenience caused, and £28.72 to cover the interest Miss 
H had been charged. Barclaycard also told this service it had waived interest on Miss H's 
credit card account for July and August 2019. The bank also offered £10 for the delay in 
dealing with Miss H's complaint.
Our investigator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. He considered it 
would've been reasonable for Miss H to realise Barclaycard hadn't taken the full amount 
from her bank account. The investigator was satisfied the compensation offered by 
Barclaycard was reasonable, and he didn't think the bank had to do anything else.
Miss H disagreed with the investigator's conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H has explained that her monthly income isn't always steady, so it wasn't obvious to 
her that she had more money in her bank account than she should've done. She says 
she relied on Barclaycard's confirmation that she'd paid what she owed. I've noted 
everything Miss H has said.
But like the investigator, I think it would've been reasonable for Miss H to know how much 
was in her bank account before she made the payment. And despite what she's told me 
about variations to her income, I still think it would've been reasonable for Miss H to monitor 
her account and be aware of the likely balance once the payment had been made.
So I don't think would be fair or reasonable for me to ask Barclaycard to write off what Miss 
H owes. But if paying the balance now causes financial difficulty for Miss H, I would remind 
Barclaycard of its obligation to treat her positively and sympathetically in helping her find a 
suitable means of repayment.
Barclaycard has accepted it made a mistake and it's offered compensation to reflect that. 
When I take account of awards by this service in complaints of a similar nature, I think the 
amount the bank has offered is reasonable. 
To settle this complaint Barclaycard should pay the compensation it's offered to Miss H if it 
hasn't already done so. But I won't be asking it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman