DRN-2376159
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined a claim made under
their Buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs B made a claim to UKI for water damage to their home. They
said theyd noticed some signs of damage six months before but it had got worse, so they
had appointed a plumber to investigate. They discovered extensive damage and
Mr and Mrs B wanted to claim for this. But UKI declined the claim and said that damage
caused gradually wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this so UKIs contractors attended and inspected the
damage.
UKIs contractor noted a pipe connector which had been replaced by Mr and Mrs Bs
plumber in the main bathroom, which was said to be the cause of the damage. They took
moisture readings in different places, including away from the pipe area, and noted
extensively rotten joists, and damage in the adjoining en-suite bathroom.
UKI maintained declining the claim due to gradual damage, and also on the basis of damage
caused by poor sealant and grouting, both of which are excluded under the policy. They also
pointed to policy conditions which said Mr and Mrs B should take reasonable care to prevent
damage, and that the building should be kept in good condition. They said Mr and Mrs B had
breached these conditions.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with UKI declining the claim and approached this service.
Our investigator considered all the information but he didnt uphold the complaint. He
thought UKIs reasons for declining the claim were fair. He said in his view the damage was
longstanding and as Mr and Mrs B were aware of it but didnt do anything, it was reasonable
for UKI to rely on the gradual damage exclusion. He also thought UKIs conclusions around
the grout and sealant were reasonable.
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I provisionally reached the same outcome as our investigator, but for some additional 
reasons. So I decided to issue a provisional decision before I made my final decision. This 
allowed both parties to comment on my thinking, before I make my final decision  which is 
the Financial Ombudsman Services last word on the case.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two exclusions being relied on by UKI to decline the claim and Ill consider 
each separately below. Ill also consider the policy conditions which UKI says 
Mr and Mrs B have breached.
Damage caused by failure of grouting or sealant
Ive seen the video carried out by UKIs contractor. And Ive also seen the 
photographs Mr and Mrs B have provided of the pipe and replaced connector, which 
they say was the cause of the damage. Ive also seen the images of the damage 
Mr and Mrs Bs plumber sent to UKI.
I can see from the images that Mr and Mrs B and their plumber have provided that 
the outside of the pipe is wet along with the wall behind it, and surrounding area. 
Which does indicate it was leaking.
When Direct Lines contractor attended, they also recorded the pipe and surrounding 
area as the shower unit had been removed. 
They checked the moisture levels in the immediate area of where the pipe was. They 
also checked further away, and this showed extensive rot, but the moisture reading 
was low. As the reading was low much further away, this would indicate that it was 
long standing, rather than something which had recently happened.
The flooring was also rotten, and there was damage including rot which was in the 
adjacent en-suite bathroom at the bottom of the shower, and underneath the flooring. 
So if the pipe was the only problem, then its likely the damage would have been 
more isolated in that area. But there was damage much further away and in the 
location of the shower trays, with low moisture readings indicating another additional 
cause of damage.
Damage caused as a result of failure or wear and tear of grout or sealant isnt 
covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy. There was damage in areas around where the 
shower trays were which is far from the pipe. So Im minded to find UKIs conclusion, 
that damage was caused due to failing sealant or grout, persuasive, as at least some 
of the cause of damage, along with the leaking pipe.
But UKI hasnt solely declined it on the basis of failure of sealant or grouting, rather it 
has used this, along with other reasons and exclusions. So even if I was to conclude 
that it was the pipe which solely caused the damage, rather than sealant or grout too, 
this doesnt mean Id then automatically say UKI need to pay the claim.
UKI has also relied on an exclusion which applies to the whole policy. And I think 
thats very important here, and Ill explain why below.
Gradual Damage
Ive listened to the call when the claim was first reported. Mrs B called UKI to make 
the claim and the agent asked for details. Mrs B explained that they were aware of 
both showers leaking and were going to replace the wall coverings and trays. But 
when the plumber took these out, they discovered the joists were rotten.
Mrs B explained that they had noticed damage to the ceiling below and the floors had 
been spongy. When asked how long ago, Mrs B said about six months, and it had 
been gradual. But it now seemed to be worse.The agent queried where the plumber said the leak was coming from, and whether 
this was only when the shower was used, Mrs B confirmed that was correct. Mrs B 
said they knew something was leaking as they could see from the ceiling below. And 
this was the first time they could do anything as their son was studying so they didnt 
want to disrupt that, and a few months after that was the first time they could get their 
plumber.
The agent explained under the policy, gradual damage isnt something which is 
covered. Mrs B queried this and said it only happened over six months, but the agent 
confirmed the exclusion for gradual damage. They also explained if it was a sudden 
leak it might have been covered, but based on what Mrs B said, it had happened 
gradually which isnt covered. So from this call, Mr and Mrs B were aware of a leak 
and didnt do anything to resolve this until some months later, which likely allowed 
the damage to worsen.
Mr and Mrs B have said to this service they thought the issue might have been a 
leaking sink and it wasnt until the shower was removed that the full extent of the 
damage was evident. But this still shows they were aware of an issue, even if they 
dont think it was the same issue, and didnt do anything to investigate or stop this 
until some months later.
The policy terms say any damage caused gradually isnt covered. So taking into 
account the call when reporting the claim, I think its clear that Mr and Mrs B were 
aware of a leak causing damage and didnt do anything until much later. So damage 
was allowed to happen gradually.
Given the findings from the inspection too, that there was extensive rot (which Ive
commented on above), this also supports that the damage occurred gradually.
Therefore, Im minded to conclude that it was fair and reasonable for UKI to rely on 
the gradual damage exclusion and to decline the claim.
Additional conditions
UKI has also mentioned two conditions which they say Mr and Mrs B have breached:
Preventing loss
You must take reasonable care to prevent loss, injury or liability, damage or
accidents to the buildings and contents covered under this policy.
Maintaining your buildings and contents
You must keep the buildings, contents and personal possessions covered under the
policy in good condition.
Given that Mr and Mrs B were aware of damage happening but didnt do anything to
investigate or resolve this for around six months after they became aware, I can see 
why UKI has referred to these.
But regardless of these conditions, it wasnt solely on this basis that UKI declined the 
claim. And Im minded to conclude the claim is defeated by the gradual damage 
exclusion in any event for the reasons outlined above.So I was minded to conclude that UKI hadnt acted unfairly by declining the claim.
The responses to my provisional decision
UKI responded and said they had no further comments to make in response to the 
provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs B responded but they didnt agree. They said the delay period between noticing 
the leak and alerting the insurer was shorter than six months, and that due to holidays, this 
meant they couldnt do anything until later. They also said that it became much worse in 
August 2019 so it was also a shorter period from then until they contacted UKI. 
Mr and Mrs B also said that they feel they were deliberately steered into a policy exclusion 
by UKIs agent when they reported the claim. They also commented that UKI had said there 
had been no damage to the pipe, but it had been leaking over time. And they also disputed 
that sealant or grouting could have been a cause of the damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive again thought carefully about the conclusion I came to in my provisional decision. 
Having done so, I havent changed my mind.
Mr and Mrs B have said the timeline between becoming aware of an issue and doing 
something to investigate was shorter than six months. They said their son was studying for 
exams in June. And they couldnt get their usual plumber due to their holiday and then the 
plumbers which meant they couldnt do anything sooner than they reported it at the end of 
October 2019. And Mr and Mrs B said it didnt get much worse until August 2019 anyway.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Bs son may have been studying, and that particular plumber 
may have been away on holiday. But this doesnt change that Mr and Mrs B were aware of 
an issue, and didnt do anything about it until much later, such as using another plumber, or 
organising around their son studying. And damage caused gradually is excluded under 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy.
Ive listened to the call that Mrs B made to UKI when she reported the damage. Ive covered 
it in more detail above in my provisional findings and dont intend to revisit that here. But I 
dont think UKIs agent led Mr and Mrs B toward the exclusion by their questioning. They 
asked questions about when the issue was first noticed, and then probed further to see if it is 
something they could cover. 
Mrs B told UKI about when it had been first noticed, and also said it had happened over 
time. So I dont think UKI have steered Mr and Mrs B into an exclusion as Mr and Mrs B 
have alleged.
Mr and Mrs B have also said that UKI has said there wasnt a leaking pipe, but they dont 
agree with this. And theyve also said the grouting and sealant wasnt an issue. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Ive seen the images of the pipe and surrounding area, 
which do indicate it was leaking so I dont disagree with that. 
But Ive also seen images of the much wider area, which shows extensive rot, including in 
the adjacent en-suite. So if the pipe was the only issue, then its likely damage would have been much more isolated. So I was minded to find UKIs conclusion, that damage was 
caused due to failing sealant or grout persuasive, as at least some of the cause of damage, 
along with the leaking pipe. 
But as I said, UKI didnt decline the claim solely on the basis of failure of sealant or grouting, 
rather this was one of the reasons used to decline it. So even if I concluded that it was solely 
the pipe which caused damage, this doesnt mean Id automatically direct UKI to pay the 
claim as I also need to consider the other exclusions.
Of importance here, UKI also relied on the gradual damage exclusion. And for the reasons 
outlined in my provisional decision and above, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B were aware of an 
issue and didnt do anything for some time, which allowed damage to worsen over time. So I 
dont think UKI has acted unfairly by relying on the gradual damage exclusion and declining 
the claim.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman