DRN-3637552
The complaint
Mr W complains that due to issues in setting up his Junior ISA with National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I) he didnt receive the correct amount of interest and the total value of his 
ISA was permanently reduced.
Mr W is represented by a family member but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr W 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In May 2020, an online application was made for a junior ISA for Mr W. The required forms 
were signed on 24 May 2020 and returned to NS&I. The forms were sent to the bank from 
which the transfer would take place on 11 June and a letter sent confirming that the funds 
would be in the accounts within 15 days. The money was received by NS&I on 19 June 
2020.
An error was made in regard to Mr Ws account which resulted in the interest start date 
being recorded as 4 August 2020 rather than 19 June 2020. Incorrect information was then 
given about interest being earned from when an account is opened rather than from when 
funds are received. Copies of the account statements were requested. These werent 
received and had to be chased over the coming months. The transfer from the NS&I junior 
ISA took place on 24 May 2021.
NS&I says that interest should be earned on Junior ISAs from the date the funds are 
received. It acknowledged the delay in statements being sent but said these werent needed 
to make the transfer from its Junior ISA to the other chosen account. In regard to Mr Ws 
account it said that the funds were received on 19 June 2020 and a further amount received 
on 4 August 2020. Mr Ws account was then incorrectly cancelled, and a new account set 
up. NS&I noted that the error with Mr Ws account resulted in him losing interest which it 
calculated to be £105.63. The transfer out of the account took place on 24 May 2021.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He said that Mr W should be paid the lost interest 
arising from the errors as well as an amount to recognise that as the maximum amount had 
been made to the junior ISA in each tax year this amount couldnt be applied to the junior 
ISA and would therefore affect the ISA value. He said the exact shortfall could be identified 
from the statements at the year end. As he thought it reasonable to accept that the account 
would remain open until maturity (when Mr W reaches 18 years old) he thought interest at a 
rate of 8% simple per year on the lost interest should be paid for the seven years until the 
ISAs maturity.
Our investigator also noted other service issues and recommend that additional to the 
previous compensation payments, a further £120 was paid.
NS&I accepted out investigators view. Further comments were raised on behalf of Mr W.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Errors were made in regard to Mr Ws junior ISA which meant interest wasnt applied 
from the correct date (the date the funds were received). NS&I accepted that interest 
was lost and should be refunded. Our investigator recommended that a payment of 
£106.46 was made for the lost interest. I found the amount recommended by our 
investigator was reasonable.
As Mr Ws ISA had a lower value due to the lost interest and this was then 
transferred to another provider. I agreed with our investigator that redress should be 
applied to reflect the impact of this. It was recommended that the difference between 
Mr Ws fund value at the end of the financial year (April 2022) and what it would have 
been had the interest been correctly applied should be calculated (less the £106.46 
being paid) and that this amount be paid to Mr W. I found this reasonable.
Given the timing issue and that Mr W was expected to have a junior ISA in place until 
maturity (when he is 18 years old), it was recommended that simple interest of 8% 
per annum for seven years was paid on the lost interest amount of £106.46. This was 
agreed by NS&I and I thought this reasonable.
Our investigator noted the compensation that had been awarded through the 
investigation of this complaint. Compensation had previously been awarded to 
Mr Ws representative as she was dealing with the complaint. However, as the 
complainant in this complaint was Mr W I considered the service issues relevant to 
him. In our investigators view he recommended that a further £120 of compensation 
be paid. NS&I confirmed it agreed to pay this amount to Mr W. Given the issues 
raised through this complaint and NS&Is agreement to pay the additional 
compensation to Mr W I found this a reasonable outcome.
NS&I accepted my provisional decision.
Mr W said that the interest being applied for seven years didnt fully reflect the period until 
his 18th birthday and confirmed his date of birth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint was initially raised as part of a wider complaint including other junior ISAs 
and wider service issues experienced by Mr Ws family member. However, as the subject of 
this complaint is Mr Ws junior ISA this decision relates only to the issues relevant to his 
junior ISA and his experience regarding this.
As set out in my provisional decision, errors were made in regard to Mr Ws junior ISA. In 
order to put Mr W back in the position he would have been had the errors not happened, I 
find it reasonable that Mr W is paid £106.46 for the lost interest along with an the difference 
between Mr Ws fund value at the end of the financial year (April 2022) and what it would 
have been had the interest been correctly applied should be calculated (less the £106.46 
being paid).
The recommended redress also included a payment of simple interest of 8% per annum on 
the lost interest amount of £106.46 for seven years. The seven-year period was intended to 
reflect the period to when Mr W turned 18. Mr W confirmed his date of birth and said that 
interest should be applied from June 2020 until he turned 18 in May 2029. I agree that the end date should be when Mr W turns 18. However, I think it reasonable that interest is paid 
from the end of the financial year (April 2022) as has previously been set out as this is 
additional to the other redress measures being taken to ensure Mr W is compensated for the 
issues that arose. The additional interest is then to be paid on this amount to reflect the 
period going forward until when Mr W turns 18.  
Our investigator recommended that a further £120 of compensation be paid. NS&I confirmed 
it agreed to pay this amount to Mr W. Given the issues raised through this complaint and 
NS&Is agreement to pay the additional compensation to Mr W I think this a reasonable 
outcome.
Putting things right
National Savings and Investments should:
Pay £106.46 for the loss of interest.
Pay the difference in fund value (between Mr W and the other comparable account), 
less £106.46 (statements to be provided to evidence this).
Pay simple interest of 8% per annum for £106.46 from the end of the financial year 
(April 2022) until Mr A turns 18 (May 2029). 
National Savings and Investments has also confirmed it will pay further compensation of 
£120 to Mr W (additional to other payments made through the investigation of this complaint) 
which I find reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Savings and Investments should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman