DRN-3469355
The complaint
Ms H has complained about the way Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish 
Friendly) handled her queries and policy.
Ms H has a representative but for ease, all references to Ms H include any submissions 
made on her behalf by her representative.
What happened
Ms H had an income protection insurance policy, underwritten by Scottish Friendly. Ms H 
had the policy since 2001. The original underwriter was different but Scottish Friendly has 
confirmed it took over the policy. 
Ms H contacted Scottish Friendly in 2020 about a potential claim but decided not to continue. 
She said her application form and policy documents indicated that she would be entitled to a 
no claims refund when the policy ended. But Scottish Friendly said Ms H didnt have this 
cover as it wasnt an option when she started the policy in 2001. 
Ms H complained that when she first contacted Scottish Friendly, it agreed with her and said 
she would be entitled to a no claims refund. It later changed its mind and said she didnt 
have the cover. This took a number of months and phone calls. Scottish Friendly paid Ms H 
£250 compensation for its poor handling of her enquiry but Ms H didnt think this was 
enough. 
Unhappy with Scottish Friendlys response, Ms H referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Scottish Friendly needed to do 
anything more. He was satisfied £250 compensation was appropriate and didnt think Ms H 
had additional options on her policy.
Ms H disagreed, and in summary, has made the following comments:
There is no concrete evidence from Scottish Friendly that the options didnt apply.
Ms H should also have had the major surgery cover option. 
These were options and not optional which implies they were included.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. And largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. I would also like to say that I have fully 
considered all the points made by Ms H even if I dont explicitly address them. Instead, I 
have focused on what I consider to be key to my decision.
Ive looked at the documents available from the start of the policy. This includes the 
application form and the policy schedule. Neither document includes anything in the 
additional benefits section nor refers to additional cover. 
The product details from the original provider do not refer to the no claims refund option or 
the major surgery option. The policy provisions from the original provider only refer to a 
critical illness option and this confirms this is only included if shown on the schedule of 
insurance. 
Ms H has said the use of the word option implies the cover was included. But I disagree. 
As the additional cover in the original document refers to an option rather than optional 
cover, I think they mean the same thing. Scottish Friendly refers to optional critical illness 
cover whereas the original provider called the same thing critical illness option. And so this 
suggests all additional options would need to be selected and were optional regardless of 
whether the term option or optional was used in the policy documents.
Ive also seen that Scottish Friendly asked the original provider to confirm whether the 
additional benefits were included for Ms H. It has confirmed that these benefits werent 
offered after 1999. And so they couldnt have been added to Ms Hs policy in 2001. 
Ms H has provided a copy of a product information document from Scottish Friendly which 
says:
No Claims Refund Option  50% of premiums returned if no claims are made 
by the time the policy expires.
It also says:
Major surgery Option  pays a cash benefit if the life assured undergoes surgeryin 
a recognised UK hospital.
Scottish Friendly confirmed the document which refers to the no claims refund and major 
surgery is for a general income protector and not all of the additional benefits were 
applicable to her policy. The no claims refund was only available on an older version of the 
income protector. It explained there are three versions of this cover and Ms H has the 
factsheet which covers all three products, and this is where the confusion has arisen.
So taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Ms H was given the incorrect product 
information when she made her enquiry, and this led to confusion. Im satisfied that the 
original documents and application form all confirm that she had no additional options on her 
policy. And so, I cant fairly ask Scottish Friendly to provide a benefit which Ms H didnt have.
I accept that Ms H was given conflicting information and that this would have been 
frustrating. She also had to take time to follow this up which caused some distress and 
inconvenience. For the impact of this, Scottish Friendly has paid Ms H £250 compensation. I 
think this is an appropriate amount taking into consideration that the impact wasnt prolonged 
and Scottish Friendly confirmed the correct position in its final response letter.
I appreciate Ms H will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope she can see how I 
reached my conclusions. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman