DRN-4419332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E have complained about their car insurer AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited regarding a claim they made following an accident.
What happened
There was an accident on 28 October 2022, whilst Mrs E was driving the car. AA recovered 
Mr and Mrs Es car to its storage depot  but it thought it was likely the car was damaged 
beyond economic repair (total loss). Whilst the claim was ongoing, in November, it became 
apparent that AAs storage agent did not know where the car was. It was later found. From 
the date of the accident the car was missing for 46 days. AA apologised.
Mr and Mrs E had some extra cover which afforded them a hire car for 21 days in the event 
of an accident. This period expired whilst the car was missing and Mr and Mrs E then, from 
24 November 2023, had to manage without a car. AA said it was regrettable that the hire 
had expired whilst their car was missing  but it couldnt provide them with a courtesy car 
because it was felt their claim would be settled as one of total loss.
The car was found in December 2022. Subsequently AA made an offer of settlement to 
Mr and Mrs E, which was increased in January 2023 to £5,470. That was based on an 
average of two trade guides used for motor valuations  AA had discounted a value given by 
a third guide as it felt it was too low. Mr and Mrs E said AA had accepted their valuation of 
£8,995 when arranging the policy, with this sum being added to the policy documents. They 
said cars like theirs were scarce and any similar models for sale had asking values of around 
and in excess of £9,000. They wanted AA to make an increased offer. In its final response of 
23 January 2023, AA maintained its valuation was fair and offered to make an interim 
payment on that basis  explaining that Mr and Mrs E could accept it and then still complain.
Mr and Mrs E felt Mrs E had not been at fault for the accident. But AA felt it wasnt likely the 
claim could be settled as one of non-fault against Mrs E. It said it understood that Mr E felt 
the other driver had been speeding  but that speed is difficult to prove and it was Mrs Es 
duty, at the time of the accident, to give way at the junction.
AA, on reviewing everything, felt it had provided some poor service. It offered Mr and Mrs E 
£300 compensation. They remained unhappy, complaining to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
Our Investigator felt that £300 compensation for service and delays, including the car going 
missing, was fair and reasonable. She thought the market value had been fairly assessed 
and that AAs position on liability was reasonable. She noted liability hadnt been finalised 
yet and explained that the claim showing as open and fault, in the meantime, on 
Mr and Mrs Es renewal, was normal.
Mr and Mrs E were unhappy with the findings. They provided detailed comments in reply. 
Their complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I felt the complaint should be upheld in part  the part about the car going missing. In that 
respect I felt AA should pay a further £600 and an amount equivalent to interest on the 
market value settlement. But I felt its market value and liability assessments were made 
fairly and reasonably, and that its £300 compensation for upset was fair too. I issued a 
provisional decision to share my views with and explain them to both parties.
In reply AA said it would accept my findings and arrange payment to Mr and Mrs E.
Mr and Mrs E were disappointed with my decision. They replied at length over several 
emails. Ive included below, under What Ive decided  and why, summaries of their replies, 
and then my responses, all after (where relevant) my provisional findings (in italics). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, Ive read and considered everything submitted by both parties, including the 
response to my provisional decision. In my findings though I may not mention every 
document or even every argument raised. Rather my findings will focus on the key issues 
I view as being at the heart of the complaint.
Our process and our decisions
Adjustment to our usual processes
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  we should adjust our usual processes to allow involvement 
in this complaint from senior staff members and to invite other bodies into the process to 
investigate and advise, such as the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) and 
the courts. They said their complaint should be placed on hold to allow for all of this. 
My response  I appreciate that this is a very important issue for Mr and Mrs E, which has 
caused, and is still causing, them a lot of concern. But its not dissimilar to the types of 
complaints I deal with regularly in my role as an independent decision maker. The complaint 
does not turn on new issues about which our Service needs to consider our general 
approach. I have all the necessary facts to hand and Im satisfied I can make a fair and 
reasonable decision. So this isnt something which requires referral within the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. In terms of inviting other bodies into the complaint process  that is 
neither necessary nor possible. Simply put the Financial Ombudsman Service is an 
independent dispute resolution service; for example, we are an alternative to the courts and 
separate from the industry regulator the FCA. So I wont be inviting any other bodies into our 
complaint process or placing the complaint on hold to do so.   
An additional provisional decision
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  when any further decision is eventually issued it should be 
a further provisional decision initially. It should seek to protect the public, ensuring lessons 
are learned by AA. My findings should start from the point that AA acts deceptively.
My response  a provisional decision is issued when a change in outcome or reasoning is 
felt to be needed. It lets both parties know of the intended change. But if no change is felt to 
be necessary our process is to make a final decision. Which is what Ive done here. Our role 
is not to punish an insurer. That, where necessary, is the role of the regulator. And when 
I make a decision, I consider all of the evidence available to me in an impartial manner. Ill take into account the views of either party as I go, but my findings would be flawed if 
I started from a premise that the respondent (or complainant) had acted as alleged by the 
other party, in a certain, negative way.   
Request for a telephone conversation with the deciding Ombudsman
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  theyd happily discuss their concerns on the phone if 
required. They noted their request for a call had been denied but think it would be 
reasonable to allow them to discuss the impact on them as victims, with a view to averting 
injustice. They remain concerned that prior to my provisional decision being issued, AA told 
them it had already heard from the Ombudsman  they feel they deserve further clarification. 
My response  The Financial Ombudsman Service is impartial. One of the ways we can 
ensure impartiality is for the Ombudsman to not discuss the complaint individually with either 
party. And I can assure Mr and Mrs E that theyve made their concerns and the impact this 
matter has had on them clear in their submissions. Its also an important part of our process 
that our decisions are issued to both parties at the same time. I did clarify in my provisional 
decision that I had not had any contact with either party prior to that decision being issued. 
My provisional decision was issued to both Mr and Mrs E and AA on 14 September 2023.
Grouping of complaints together
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  their complaint reaches beyond the AA respondent 
business named in this decision and they want any final decision to reflect that. Their other 
complaint about the broker should be considered and answered in tandem with this one.
My response  The Financial Ombudsman Service considers individual complaints from 
complainants about respondent businesses. We dont have any power to look at grouped 
complaints, or to list more than one respondent. Rather we deal with complaints about each 
respondent business separately. Thats because each complaint we deal with is considered 
on its own merits. As such there is no need to hold this complaint up whilst Mr and Mrs Es 
complaint against their broker is considered (which I understand is currently at a much 
earlier stage in our process). 
Background summary
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  they feel my background detail needs changing to better 
summarise what theyve been through. 
My response  I can assure Mr and Mrs E that my background was compiled having 
considered all of the available complaint evidence. Im satisfied it fairly summarises and 
reflects the key points of what went on. My complaint summary and background sections 
within this final decision remain as those set out provisionally.
Our final decision
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  they want to make it clear that if my view does not change, 
they will have the right to seek assistance from other professionals.
My response  our complaint process ends with a final decision. There is no further appeal 
within our service. I cant speak as to Mr and Mrs Es rights or ability to make complaints to certain regulators or the police. Although Im not aware of any impact our complaint process 
might have in those respects. But I do need to let Mr and Mrs E know about the potential 
impact our decision may have on any court action they may wish to take. If they accept my 
final decision it becomes binding on AA. It will have to pay any redress awarded. But they 
may not be able to pursue any remaining concerns they may have, or any part of the 
decision they disagree with, through the courts. If my final decision is not accepted, my 
findings are not binding. It may comply with my award, but it would not have to do so. 
Mr and Mrs E would then likely not be precluded, as far as any impact of our process is 
concerned, from pursuing any complaint through the courts. They may wish to take legal 
advice before deciding whether or not to accept my decision. 
Valuation
I said provisionally:
I realise that Mr and Mrs E were asked to give a valuation for the car when cover was 
agreed. But the policy paperwork, having set out the figure given (£8,995), explains that 
settlements will be based on the market value for the car as at date of loss. And the policy 
gives a definition for market value as The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the 
same make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition at the date of accident or loss. 
I know Mr and Mrs E feel the policy has been mis-sold to them and would like their 
premiums back. But Im not persuaded that AA is looking to do anything that hasnt been 
agreed to. AA provided a policy which said it would settle claims based on the vehicles 
market value  and that is what it has sought to do. Whether it settling on the basis of total 
loss, and whether the sum it has offered is fair and reasonable, or not, are different matters. 
But do not mean the policy itself was mis-sold.
Turning to the total loss settlement, I understand AA viewed the car as a category S total 
loss  meaning it had suffered structural damage which was repairable, but wouldnt be 
economic to do so. I also understand that the initial report of the accident was front and 
back door are caved in and not functional, car wont lock. AAs file also details damage to 
the rear quarter panel, the B-post, sills and a kink in the wheel arch. I can understand that 
AA thought any repair for the car would be costly. I think AA viewing it as a total loss was fair 
and reasonable.
Looking at the market value figure AA offered, I note Mr and Mrs E feel theyve provided sale 
adverts evidencing higher market values for cars similar to theirs.  However, knowing the 
advertised sale price of a similar vehicle does not necessarily equate to having established 
what a fair and reasonable market value is for the insured car. Our service doesnt value 
cars. Instead we check to see that the insurers valuation is fair and reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we tend to use relevant trade guides. 
I usually find these persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices. It 
therefore means the guides are likely to have taken into account similar cars for sale to 
Mr and Mrs Es. I note though that Mr and Mrs E state their car benefitted from lots of accessories when new 
(they were the second owners of the car). Also that these often dont feature on other cars, 
although even broadly similar cars to theirs are advertised far in excess of the guide prices. 
They presented some adverts for AA to consider, along with pricing detail from the 
manufacturer about the cost of such accessories. I can understand why AA chose to rely on 
the guides  but with the second-hand car market currently being quite competitive, I think 
its reasonable to take the adverts into account when considering if the market value of 
£5,470 is fair and reasonable. The manufacturers detail on pricing is not so relevant 
because Mr and Mrs E didnt buy their car new, nor was it new at the time of the loss. 
Further specifically chosen accessories for a car dont always add to its value in the 
second-hand car market.
The guides give market values for Mr and Mrs Es car of £4,875 (which AA discounted), 
£5,460, £5,480 and £6,912 (obtained from a fourth trade guide by our Investigator). 
Mr and Mrs E presented adverts showing two cars for sale at £10,475 and £9,500. Of these 
both were later models (by a year) and one had much lower mileage. Our Investigator 
checked some sale prices for similar cars, finding two of the same specification, one with 
similar mileage, and one slightly less. They were priced at £4,560 and £5,792 respectively. 
They appear to be in line with the trade guides too. I can see that the examples presented by 
Mr and Mrs E give higher values. But bearing in mind the spread of the guide values and 
that there are available examples for sale within that range, Im not persuaded the adverts 
selected by Mr and Mrs E show the fair and reasonable market value for their car is around 
or in excess of £9,000. And whilst the fourth guide does show a higher market value (than 
the other three), I think AAs offer, which is within the range of the guides, and similar to the 
example adverts found by our Investigator, is fair and reasonable. I dont intend to make AA 
increase the market value applied to the claim.  
Financial and emerging scam in the industry
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  they feel this amounts to a financial scam by AA. And an 
emerging scam in the industry. AAs role should be reported to the police. And the media. 
They feel AA is exploiting a loophole in our complaint process  which they, by their replies, 
are seeking to protect us from.
My response  I thank Mr and Mrs E for seeking to offer protection, and I have carefully 
considered everything theyve told us. I understand that Mr and Mrs E feel scammed. And 
they are free to share that view with others such as the police and the media as they wish. 
But Im satisfied that AA and Mr and Mrs E entered into a standard car insurance policy, in 
respect of which, there is now an existing complaint, which I am deciding upon. 
A previous Ombudsmans decision for another policyholder
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  a previous Ombudsmans decision considered the validity 
of the value which appears in the AA policy schedule, for another policyholder.
My response  I understand why Mr and Mrs E think this is important. Ive reviewed the 
decision theyve referred to. But Im not persuaded it assists them here. It does seem to be 
in respect of a policy like theirs. But the complaint is very different  it is about whether 
misrepresentation occurred when the policy was arranged, via a price comparison website 
and if AA acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding the policy (treating it as though it never 
existed). Whereas Mr and Mrs Es complaint looks at what fair settlement of a claim under 
the policy is. Which is a very different situation.   AA policy document
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  they believe AA had provided an incorrect policy document 
to us, in order to deceive the Ombudsman  they asked that the copy they provided is used. 
The correct policy included cover for accessories.
My response  I noted that when we asked for AAs file of papers, it provided the policy 
renewal for 2019. That was clearly the wrong year as the accident occurred in 2022. But it 
isnt unusual for policy documents from the wrong year to be initially provided to us. And 
well always check we have the right documents when we assess a complaint. Here, when 
the 2019 documents were provided, Mr and Mrs E had already kindly provided copies from 
the year of the accident. These correct documents were relied on and referred to by myself 
when making my provisional decision.
Total loss
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  AA forced the total loss on them, never costing repairs or 
assessing the cause of damage. Without completing a fair assessment, the total loss 
decision was fundamentally flawed and cant be fair. Thinking the car was a total loss was 
not an accurate or appropriate assessment.
My response  what an insurer will need to do to ensure a fair claim outcome is reached will 
vary depending on the circumstances of each loss. I bear in mind that insurers deal with 
damage assessments and repairs regularly  so they will know, with a reasonable degree of 
accuracy, what certain repairs will cost. Insurers are also aware that visible damage might 
only be the tip of the iceberg (so to speak), that particularly when substantial visible damage 
is present, theres possibly more damage that will need repair that will be uncovered once 
work starts. In the circumstances of this loss, given the obvious damage to the car, and the 
market value which was assessed and determined for it, Im satisfied that AAs total loss 
decision was fair and reasonable.
AA Insurance premium
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  they had paid a premium for what they viewed as a contract for 
AA to pay £8,995 in the event of a total loss. Or at least that figure would be the starting 
point for the rising or falling of market trends within the policy period. With the market having 
risen in this period. So a rising scale for the period should be applied to determine the fair 
total loss settlement for their car. Whereas the trade guides referenced are based on data 
gathered previously, during a period of downward trend in car sales, so theyre not reliable. 
Applying a rising trend scale to the base point of £8,995 would give a fair settlement for their 
car in the region of £12,000.
My response  I understand what Mr and Mrs E thought they were contracting for. But that is 
not what the policy promised. That said their argument in respect of the second-hand car 
sale market is one recognised by this service. The Financial Ombudsman Service accepts 
that, recently, in some cases the values given by the trade guides may not reasonably reflect 
the true market value. Which is why I took into account, when reaching my provisional 
decision, what prices were actually available for cars similar to Mr and Mrs Es on the sale 
market. In that way the values given by the trade guides were sense checked. In this case 
I found there were similar cars for sale within the range of values returned by the guides.   Undervalued vehicle
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  their vehicle was undervalued  it had rare and expensive 
accessories. These cant be cast aside without getting valued. Certainly theyd be replaced if 
the car was damaged and being repaired. If theyd continued to own the vehicle it would 
have become a rare classic. They dont accept that only new vehicle sales gain from fitted 
accessories. They said that its certainly the case that the more rare accessories a car has, 
that are unique, the higher the value will be that the car is made available for sale for.
My response  I can see that Mr and Mrs E feel strongly about their car. Clearly they loved it. 
But the finishes applied to a car when new, are often a matter of personal choice. 
Sometimes that choice, when the car is sold on, meets the desires and expectations of a 
buyer. But that doesnt necessarily mean that a car that was fitted with, for example, chrome 
handles rather than the standard finish for that make and model of car, will be generally 
more desirable in a second-hand market. Whether or not it might be advertised at a higher 
price does not necessarily speak to what it will likely sell for. Had AA been repairing the car, 
for example replacing the door, it would have had to provide a like-for-like replacement. And 
the policy schedule does set out Car valuation (inc. accessories). But it also immediately 
explains (as I set out provisionally) that claims will be settled on the basis of the market 
value for the car. I remain of the view that AA has fairly and reasonably applied the policy 
terms when seeking to settle Mr and Mrs Es claim.    
Vehicle model
In their reply Mr and Mrs E said  their car was part of the last manufacturing year for that 
model  so the examples they presented are not younger than their car. They feel the 
differences I highlighted are immaterial. Because of the quality and fitments of their car, 
theyd paid over the average to purchase it, and that overpayment is reflected in the 
examples of cars they provided to evidence the market value of their car at the time of loss. 
The examples they presented werent the most costly theyd found. The examples found by 
our Investigator might be based on later prices and didnt include all their accessories. 
My response  a cars age is most usually measured from the year it was first registered for 
use. Certainly most people buying a car will use the registration as a measure of age, and 
will view a 2012 plate as being a younger car than one with a 2011 plate. And the age of a 
car, in that respect, is a key selling point that is likely to make a difference to the selling price 
for a car. That and the mileage the car has done. 
Both of Mr and Mrs Es examples were younger than their car and one had done significantly 
less mileage. Whilst Mr and Mrs E may have been persuaded to pay more than average for 
their car when they bought it  and theyve then been able to track that extra over to the 
prices set in the examples given, I cant say that would be a reasonable way to determine 
the market value for their car. Its not something which is measurable for one thing. But also, 
as I set out above, the desirable traits of a car, which may or may not prompt someone to 
pay more for it, are subjective. Whilst AA, in settling claims, and the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in determining complaints, have to consider what is most likely. Which is why the 
trade guides are often used as part of the process of determining fair and reasonable market 
values  because they consider such a wide range of data. As Ive explained, those values 
can then be checked with reference to what is available for sale in the market. 
Our Investigator did check the sale prices during our claim process  so at a later date than 
those provided by Mr and Mrs E  but there has been no change in the market trend. So Im 
satisfied the examples found by our Investigator reasonably show the trade guide valuations 
are reliable in this instance. AAs market value of £5,470 was within the range of values offered by the guides and was similar to the average of the values found by our Investigator. 
I remain of the view that AAs market value of £5,470 which it applied to its settlement offer 
for the total loss of Mr and Mrs Es car, was fair and reasonable. Im not going to make it 
increase that.
Delayed insurance claim 
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  they feel AA has denied them their total loss settlement for a 
year  so my decision should award interest on any payment its felt it should now pay.
My response  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs E have never been satisfied with the settlement 
offered to them. But AA did clarify, in January 2023, they could accept it and still complain. 
AA also asked for their bank details to be able to pay the settlement to them. Mr and Mrs E 
could have safely, therefore, provided their details and had the benefit of those funds with 
them whilst they progressed their complaint. I cant fairly require AA to pay interest to them 
for the period after January 2023 when they did not have the settlement funds. But, in my 
section entitled Missing car I explained provisionally why I felt some interest was due on 
the settlement sum, applicable against a different period. 
DVLA records
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  they want relevant reports and repair confirmation details from 
AA so they can ensure the DVLA is appropriately advised of the total loss of the car. But 
they dont want to deal with AA further, so an intermediary of the Ombudsman Process 
should be appointed.
My response  usually once a total loss claim is settled, the car becomes the property of the 
insurer. In that circumstance it will be up to the insurer to make the requisite notifications to 
the DVLA. Here AA might be prepared, if asked by Mr and Mrs E, to share copies of that 
with them for their peace of mind. But the Financial Ombudsman Service cant be involved in 
assisting either party. As I explain elsewhere in this decision, this is my final decision and it 
marks the end of our complaint process. The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a claim 
handler or consumer advocate. As such, and with regret for any upset this causes 
Mr and Mrs E, we do not have an intermediary to appoint to assist them with any further 
communication they may need to have with AA. 
  
Valuation  in conclusion of this issue, I can confirm Ive reviewed everything regarding 
valuation. My views in respect of this aspect of the complaint have not changed from those 
stated provisionally.
Missing car
I said provisionally:
AA were unable to find Mr and Mrs Es car for 46 days. This meant the claim was effectively 
on-hold until the car was found. Once the car was found AA was able to assess it and make 
an initial assessment of its valuation on 19 December 2023. That was later reviewed, agreed 
by AA to have been unreasonable and an amended offer was made. On 23 January 2023 
AA confirmed Mr and Mrs E could accept that offer and still continue their complaint.  I understand that the hire car Mr and Mrs E had benefitted from following the accident was 
returned on 24 November 2022. But given the detail in my paragraph above, I think if AA had 
not lost the car and had made a fair and reasonable assessment of the cars market value in 
the first instance, a reasonable settlement offer couldve been put forward to Mr and Mrs E 
within the period they had the hire car. And, as long as AA put that forward with the 
explanation it could be accepted as an interim payment, any period after the hire car had 
ended, during which they had not accepted the offer, where they were without a car, would 
not have been AAs fault. But as it was, they were without a car when the hire period ended, 
and until 23 January 2023, because AA lost their car and did not make a reasonable offer of 
settlement. Im minded to require AA to pay Mr and Mrs E £600 as compensation for loss of 
use for 60 days. I know Mr and Mrs E have asked for the AA to compensate them by paying 
what the cost of a hire car would have been. But as they did not incur such a cost, it isnt 
reasonable to make a compensation award based on that figure. In similar situations this 
service often applies an award of £10 a day for having lost the use of a car, which is what 
Ive proposed here. Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable.
Ill also though require AA to make an interest payment to Mr and Mrs E. As Ive noted, the 
settlement offer was delayed by around two months, and its based on the market value of 
the car as at the date of loss. Im going to require AA to pay an amount equivalent to 
interest* applied to the sum of £5,470 over the same period as the loss of use payment. So 
from the 24 November 2022 until 23 January 2023. 
Whereabouts of stored vehicle 
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  their car was deceptively lost by AA, likely with the idea that if 
it stayed lost it could be declared a total loss with a low value applied, perhaps treating it as 
stolen. AA never properly investigated when their car was missing. It was unprofessional 
which needs apologising for. In the end they found their car, not AA  it had lied throughout, 
it must always have known where it was, it didnt contact the police as it should have and 
their loss would have been grater if they had not acted to find it (because AA wouldnt have).
My response  it remains unclear how the car came to be missing. But Ive not seen 
anything which makes me think AA acted deliberately to pretend to lose the car so it could 
either delay the claim or limit its outlay for it. Bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs E were hearing 
one thing from whomever they were talking to at the centre, whilst AA conversely was being 
told the centre did not have the car, I think an administration issue likely occurred. AA 
accepts, and I find, that it should and could have done more to locate the car, rather than 
letting the issue rumble on as long as it did. It has apologised, in the 23 January 2023 final 
response letter, for the poor service. Its good that the car was found when it was, that 
certainly resolved that situation and allowed the claim to progress. And I dont make findings 
about what mightve happened if a problem which has actually been resolved, instead hadnt 
been and had continued. Thats because that potential upset and/or loss was avoided. My 
focus is on putting things right where upset and/or loss have actually been caused.
Storage agents
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  their car was taken to an accident repair centre initially, not a 
storage depot. It was likely left in a public place, insecure, and vulnerable to theft and 
damage. Personal items from the car need to be returned to them.
My response  I think its fair to say the accident repair centre was acting as storage agents 
for AA at the time Mr and Mrs Es car was missing. Thats because the centre were not 
working on the car to repair it, they were holding it. And AA paid them storage fees. Its unfortunate if the car was left in inappropriate conditions  but I havent seen any evidence 
of any financial loss caused to Mr and Mrs E as a result of that. In an email dated 
23 December 2022 Mr E said to AA: The storage is not suitable and we hold the AA 
responsible for any negligence and any form of loss.or need we comment any 
personalisations on or within our vehicle  including personal data/information held by our 
vehicle, hard drive etc. To me that isnt a clear request to return items, or a complaint about 
them not having been returned. I think that any worry Mr and Mrs E have over their personal 
items being in the car and which AA needs to return to them, hasnt reached a point of a 
complaint at deadlock  so I wont comment on this issue further.
Incurred costs 
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  it is fair to make AA pay them an amount equivalent to the hire 
cost they would have incurred but didnt, including for the period of hire. Whilst they were in 
hire, the car was not a total loss. Also because AA has so far saved itself such a cost by 
acting unreasonably. And as AA lost their vehicle it should have paid out of its own pocket to 
provide a replacement car, based on usual hire rates, from the date of loss to the present.
 
My response  as I said in my above reply, my focus is on putting right loss which actually 
occurred. It would not be reasonable for me to make AA pay compensation to Mr and Mrs E 
for a loss  hire costs  they have not incurred. Whilst Mr and Mrs E had the benefit of the 
hire car they had access to, AA had not decided their car was a total loss  in which event 
their policy explains no courtesy car will be provided. But nor was their car undergoing repair 
 and the policy also explained that a courtesy car is provided whilst the car is undergoing 
repair. Unfortunately, here, the car went missing at a time before the likely course of the 
claim had been decided, but in a situation where Mr and Mrs E were already benefitting from 
the hire car afforded to them by their extra cover. I cant reasonably require AA to 
compensate them for loss of use of their car, when they had a car to keep them mobile.  
Missing car  in conclusion of this issue, I can confirm Ive reviewed everything regarding the 
missing car. My views in respect of this aspect of the complaint have not changed from 
those stated provisionally.
Liability
I said provisionally:
I know Mr and Mrs E feel Mrs E was not to blame, or at least not wholly to blame for the 
incident. I understand that as at the date of complaint, liability had not been fully decided. 
Which meant that when the policy came due for renewal the claim was logged as fault and 
open. That is quite normal. I can see that in the weeks after the claim, AA had explained to 
Mr and Mrs E that it would try and argue settlement on the basis of split liability  but it was 
not hopeful and felt it was not possible to reasonably argue Mrs E had no fault at all. 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs E feel frustrated by AAs view on liability. They clearly 
believe Mrs E has suffered due to the other driver. But AA has a duty when settling this type 
of claim to think about what would likely happen if the matter progressed to court  it 
wouldnt be fair for it to incur lots of costs by progressing something which had no 
reasonable prospects for success  no matter how strongly its policyholder feels about 
things. The question then really becomes one of did it fairly determine there were no 
reasonable prospects for success on the basis of Mrs E not being at fault, instead seeking, 
at most to settle on the basis of split liability?  The key issue in this respect seems to be one of speed. Mr and Mrs E argue that the other 
driver must have been speeding. AA though says that even if speed could be shown, that 
might only mitigate some personal injury costs. AA has said that as the accident occurred at 
a junction, where Mrs E was meant to give right of way, but a crash occurred, she will always 
bear some liability for the loss. I bear in mind AA has experience of how claims like this 
progress and on which it can draw from. I think that is a reasonable view from AA, that it 
fairly determined liability (albeit that has not yet been settled).
Fault record
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  AA had accepted it had been wrong to initially record this as 
fault  it then agreed to restart things and move to argue liability on a split basis. 
My response  Ive not seen anything that makes me think AA felt its initial decision was 
wrong. Rather I think it initially recorded this as a fault claim, which was not unreasonable 
given the account of the accident  which occurred when Mrs E was exiting a junction. But 
when Mr and Mrs E raised points of concern about that  the other drivers speed and the 
location of damage, AA agreed to review matters. I think that was fair and reasonable of it 
because in doing so it was listening and responding to its policyholders concerns. 
Driving history
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  their 24 years of non-fault driving needs fairly taking into 
account and all drivers have an equal duty of care to avoid collisions. Here, given Mrs Es 
driving history and that the other driver could have avoided her, Mrs E was likely less at fault. 
Theyd also received legal advice which suggested Mrs E was not at fault. This bears more 
weight than AAs view. Also that AA should have completed damage assessments and the 
like before concluding fault. Even in respect of split liability it hasnt undertaken any of these 
correct procedures. They believe the courts would rule in their favour.
My response  its up to an insurer what it does to satisfy itself on liability. Whats needed in 
each claim it sees might vary. If a complaint comes to the Financial Ombudsman Service 
well consider, based on the specific circumstances, whether it acted fairly and reasonably to 
determine liability. Sometimes it might be appropriate for an insurer to obtain legal advice, or 
complete damage assessments  but the fact it sometimes doesnt do so, wont necessarily 
mean its been unfair and unreasonable in reaching that claim determination. This doesnt 
seem to have been an unusual type of accident or to have comprised any complex mode of 
damage or legal positioning. Im satisfied that, as at the point of its final response letter in 
January 2023  which I am considering matters to and at which point no final view on liability 
had been reached  AA had handled and decided, the liability issue fairly and reasonably.
Legal cover
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  they have legal cover which AA has denied them access to. 
They are still due cover in this respect. If they had access to legal advice theyd be looking to 
claim various costs back from AA in respect of its failings.
My response  I havent seen anything which makes me think AA, the respondent business 
for the purpose of this complaint, which underwrites their car insurance policy, has blocked 
Mr and Mrs E from claiming on their separate Motor Legal Assistance policy. Often a claim 
on such a policy is linked to a non-fault accident claim. As at the point my decision considers matters up to, January 2023, liability for the claim had not been fully settled  but AA did 
think it would likely not be possible to settle it on a non-fault basis.
Liability  in conclusion of this issue, I can confirm Ive reviewed everything regarding 
liability. My views in respect of this aspect of the complaint have not changed from those 
stated provisionally.
Compensation
I said provisionally:
The claim, along with all the pressures and stresses that went with such for Mr and Mrs E, 
was undoubtedly prolonged by a couple of months by AAs failures. It was also clearly 
frustrating and worrying for Mr and Mrs E to find out their car was missing. And when it was 
found and assessed an unreasonably low market value was determined for it. I can see this 
caused them further upset, with them taking action to challenge that value. Im satisfied that 
£300 compensation fairly and reasonably makes up for the upset AA has caused.
Impact of the claim
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  they experienced more than worry and frustration, their health 
has been affected and theyve been unable to care for their extended family. They havent 
been able to live life as expected. They need their essential transport.
My response  I can assure Mr and Mrs E that I am fully aware of how this whole situation, 
and what they perceive as AAs role in it, has affected them. But its my job to determine 
what I think AA did wrong, how it, in my view, failed them. Then to decide, taking into 
account our guidelines and other awards made in similar cases, what is fair and reasonable 
compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by those failings (including any impact 
on health). I remain of the view that £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances here.
AAs compensation offer of £300
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  the £300 offered by AA has not been paid to them. They are 
unsure if I intend this to be a separate amount to the £600 awarded regarding the car. 
My response  Ive found the £300 offered by AA is fair and reasonable compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience theyve suffered due to what Ive found to be AAs failings. 
Im aware AA sent them a cheque for this sum in January 2023. It can check its records to 
see if this has been cashed. It is separate to my award of £600 for their loss of use of their 
car that should be paid in addition to the £300 previously sent to Mr and Mrs E.
Compensation  in conclusion of this issue, I can confirm Ive reviewed everything regarding 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. My views in respect of this aspect of the 
complaint have not changed from those stated provisionally.Data rights
I said provisionally: 
I know Mr and Mrs E told our Investigator they think AA hasnt complied with relevant 
legislation in this respect. They asked that we disregard any submissions from AA which 
they did not specifically consent to it sharing with us. If Mr and Mrs E have concerns about 
how AA used their data, they should contact the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
But the rules which apply to this service allow us to ask respondent businesses for case file 
details, and the resultant submissions can/should be taken into account in the consideration 
of the complaint. I havent disregarded the detail AA submitted, and its trade guide 
valuations, along with a copy of its claim notes, have previously been shared by our 
Investigator with Mr and Mrs E. Weve shared that in line with our commitments to ensuring 
natural justice, not to assist AA in fulfilling any obligations it may have to share any data.
Deception as well as miss-use of personal data
In reply Mr and Mrs E said  their point about the data AA shared with us is not just 
regarding it misusing their data  but also about how it has acted in a deceptive manner to 
share incorrect details as part of this complaint. Theyve not had a chance to correct the 
invalid data AA has submitted.
My reply  Ive answered Mr and Mrs Es concerns in my section above entitled Valuation 
about the policy schedule. Key documents supplied by AA to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service have, as I said provisionally, been shared with Mr and Mrs E. And theyve had and 
considered a copy of my provisional findings. As can be seen from this final decision 
document, theyve responded extensively. Im satisfied theyve had chance to consider the 
important documents and my findings. 
Data rights  in conclusion of this issue, I can confirm Ive reviewed everything regarding 
data rights. My views in respect of this aspect of the complaint have not changed from those 
stated provisionally.
What does all this mean and what happens now
Above Ive gone through the important aspects of the complaint. Ive set out any provisional 
findings I made, Mr and Mrs Es replies made following my provisional decision and my 
further responses having considered their replies and reconsidered matters. My view on the 
complaint, as stated, along with the reasons for my findings set out provisionally, have not 
changed. As such this is the last section of the findings of this, my final decision. 
Below my final decision document concludes with my sections entitled Putting things right 
and My final decision. This decision marks the end of our process. As mentioned above (in 
my section entitled Our process and our decisions), it is now up to Mr and Mrs E to decide 
whether or not to accept my final decision. Should they wish to accept it, and Im aware they 
may not, they need to be aware of the important deadline that applies to accepting this final 
decision. That deadline is detailed at the very end of this document above my signature and 
in the accompanying covering letter.
     Putting things right
AA has previously offered to pay Mr and Mrs E:
£5,470 less the policy excess, as a total loss settlement for their damaged car.
£300 compensation for distress and inconvenience (a cheque for this having been sent).
Ive explained, provisionally and now finally, that Im satisfied that those sums are fair and 
reasonable. AA should now pay these sums  regarding the £300, should Mr and Mrs E 
have cashed the cheque for this, this sum wont need to be paid again.
I require AA to pay Mr and Mrs E:
£600 compensation for loss of use for the period after the hire car was returned until 
23 January 2023.
An amount equivalent to interest* applied to the sum of £5,470 from 24 November 2022 
until 23 January 2023.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AA to take off tax from this interest. If 
asked, it must give Mr and Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman