DRN-2847908
The complaint
Mr U has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pensions to
a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 12 May 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out in 
that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision here. 
Mr U has said he was initially cold called by St Pauls Marketing and following the call he was
visited by one of its representatives. He says he was told that his pensions were not performing and 
that it would be better for him to transfer his funds to a SIPP and invest Just Loans Group debentures. 
He said he was told he would obtain 5-8% returns.
Mr U signed a Letter of Authority dated 17 March 2016 to allow St Pauls Marketing to obtain 
information about one of his existing personal pension plans. A letter dated 20 June 2016 was 
subsequently sent from Mr U to the SIPP provider instructing it to buy debentures in Just Bridging 
Loans PLC. The letter said, amongst other things, that Mr U had read the information prospectus and 
was aware the investment was high risk and speculative. It also said Mr U had been recommended to 
take professional advice however had he chosen not to take advice on the transaction.
Mr Us pensions were subsequently transferred to the SIPP in August 2016. In total £39,547 was 
transferred from Mr Us two existing personal pensions. A stockbroking account was opened and 
£38,647 was transferred into that account. The money was invested in Just Loans Group debentures.
Mr Us representative complained to Alexander David in March 2019. I understand Alexander David 
didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us. 
Our investigator asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to 
take into account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator noted that the information memorandum for the investment said:
Risks attaching to this investment
The Company is offering for subscription the 7.25% 2021 Debentures securities which are to be 
quoted on the Unregulated Market (ECM) of the Cyprus Stock Exchange. Investments in smaller 
companies quoted on such an exchange such as this exchange and such as JLG involves greater risk 
than investments in securities or shares on other, more senior, exchanges. These securities may be 
difficult to sell, and it may be difficult to obtain information as to how much an investment is worth or 
the degree of risk to which the investment is subject at any given time. Although the Company intends 
to apply for the 7.25% 2021 secured Debenture to be quoted on ECM, there is no guarantee the 
listing will be successful or that there be a liquid market for the 7.25% 2021 secured Debentures if the
listing is successful. The value of investments can go down as well as up and prospective investors 
may not get back the full amount originally invested. An investment should therefore, only be 
considered by those persons who are prepared to sustain a loss on their investment. Investors should 
be aware of the risks of investment in such companies and should make the decision to invest only 
after careful consideration and, if appropriate, consultation with an independent financial adviser. 
Before investing, prospective investors are strongly recommended to consult an authorised person 
specialising in advising on investments of the kind described in this IM.
The investigator said it was clear that St Pauls Marketing was in contact with Mr U prior to his pension 
being transferred (technically called a switch). He said the Letter of Authority supported Mr Us 
testimony that he was contacted by St Pauls Marketing and received advice about moving his 
pensions and arranging a new investment. The investigator said that the SIPP provider had confirmed 
that the SIPP was introduced by St Pauls Marketing and it was involved in the promotion of 
investments to Mr U.
The investigator said that he thought, on balance, St Pauls Marketing had advised Mr U to switch his 
exiting personal pensions to the SIPP and arrange the investment in the debentures. He therefore 
went on to consider whether that advice was suitable. He said that the switch to have investments 
managed through a discretionary fund manager increased the costs of managing Mr Us pensions. He 
said investing in a single asset reduced the diversification of Mr Us existing pensions and increased 
his investment risk. He said it was an investment in a relatively recent venture, held on an overseas 
exchange which might provide difficult to sell. And the information memorandum had highlighted that 
investments in smaller companies carried higher risks than investing in large firms such as those in 
the FTSE 100.
The investigator considered that the Just Loans Group debentures presented higher risks and werent 
suitable for Mr U who wasnt prepared to accept that level of risk and didnt have the capacity to lose 
his pension.
The investigator didnt think the intended investment was appropriate for Mr U. He didnt think there 
was any justification for moving Mr Us pension savings away from his existing personal pension 
providers. Therefore, the investigator thought that St Pauls Marketing Limited had given unsuitable 
advice and the pension switches shouldnt have occurred.
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However, it didnt provide a 
response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both parties on 31 December 2020 saying he was 
passing the complaint to an ombudsman to make a final decision. He asked both parties to provide 
any further evidence or arguments that they wanted to be considered. No further evidence or 
arguments were presented.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U has said, through his representative, that he had no other savings, investments or any other 
pensions at the time of advice. Hes said he had debts totalling approximately £36,000 in the form of a 
loan and credit cards. And Mr U has described himself as a low risk investor with no previous 
investment experience.
Mr U considers that the risks of the pension transfer and the underlying investment recommended 
were too high; the discussions were too positive and not balanced to make him think about the 
disadvantages. Mr U considers that the recommendation to transfer, and invest in this specific 
investment, was unsuitable, and he says he wouldnt have invested if hed been made aware that it 
was a higher risk strategy which could put his savings at risk of loss.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Us original complaint or to the investigators requests
for information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the
investigators assessment. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what
happened at the time of the switch and investment.
The documentary evidence clearly shows that St Pauls Marketing was involved from the outset and 
following its input Mr U switched (transferred) his pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. 
In my experience its unusual for someone of Mr Us background and experience to want to switch 
from their existing pension(s) in order to invest in this type of investment without prompting. I think it 
was unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the switch and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going 
to be made and facilitated it.
I note that Mr U signed a letter which I understand was pre-written for him (dated 20 June 2016) 
saying amongst other things that he was aware the investment was high risk and speculative. And 
also hed been recommended to take professional advice, however hed chosen not to take advice on 
the transaction.
The investigator thought that, on the balance of the evidence, St Pauls Marketing had advised Mr U to 
switch his pensions and invest in the debentures. And he didnt think the advice had been suitable for 
Mr U.
Mr U has said that St Pauls Marketing recommended that he transfer and invest in the debentures. I 
think his testimony is credible in the circumstances. Alexander David hasnt disputed this. Whilst I 
acknowledge that Mr U said he had chosen not to take advice on the transaction in his letter, this was 
pre-written for him, and I think its unlikely, as an ordinary retail investor, he would have appreciated 
its implications.
On the balance of the limited available evidence, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls 
Marketing did advise Mr U to switch and invest in the debentures. In doing so it had an advisory 
relationship with Mr U and was obliged to meet the requirements set out in COBS 9 to provide 
suitable advice.
In the circumstances, I dont think St Pauls Marketing took reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation was suitable for Mr U. It doesnt appear to have taken steps to obtain the necessary 
information required to ensure its recommendation was suitable for Mr U. And I dont think it had a 
had a reasonable basis for believing that Mr U was able to financially bear the investment risks related 
to the debentures.
Given the significant risks presented by the investment, I dont think the switch was suitable for Mr U 
in his circumstances, particularly given he has described himself as a low risk investor with no 
previous investment experience. In my view the underlying investment presented too great a risk 
given Mr Us circumstances. Whilst I accept that Mr U may have been given warnings about the risks 
the investment presented, this didnt dilute the firms obligations to provide suitable advice. Mr U has 
said that he couldnt afford to lose his pension as he had no other savings. He said he trusted that the 
advice he was given was professional and suited his personal and financial needs. He also said he 
had never thought about transferring his funds previously and if it wasnt for the advice received, he 
wouldnt have made this investment. Again I think what Mr U has said is credible in the 
circumstances.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr U I think the evidence shows it was 
involved in arranging the transaction. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im satisfied, on the 
limited evidence, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment.
My understanding is that the debentures were a non-readily realisable security. Conduct of
Business Rule (COBS) 10 said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable security, 
derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be 
aware, that the application or order is in response to a direct offer financial promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Us knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess 
whether the debentures were appropriate for him.
As mentioned by the investigator, Mr U has said he had no other savings or investments and no 
investment experience. The investigator didnt think the debentures were appropriate for Mr U. 
Alexander David hasnt disputed this.The debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent appropriate 
for Mr U given his background, knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St 
Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the debentures 
werent suitable or appropriate for Mr U. I also dont think the firm treated Mr U fairly or acted in his 
best interests as required by the FCAs Principles and COBS 2.1.1. Im satisfied that if St Pauls 
Marketing hadnt advised Mr U to switch and invest in the debentures or if it had told him they werent 
suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have switched and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr U to switch his pensions and 
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures caused the 
losses that Mr U has claimed.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is to uphold Mr Us complaint.
I intend to order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr U on the 
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr U as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. Mr Us existing pension 
was invested in funds that provided a greater degree of risk than Mr U has indicated he was willing to 
take or were suitable for his circumstances. I think with suitable advice Mr U would have remained in 
his existing pension scheme, but switched to an appropriate fund. So I think Mr U would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Us circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr U fairly Alexander David Securities Ltd should compare the performance of Mr Us 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Us pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Us pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Us actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr U is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr U would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr U £300 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has
            caused him.Provide details of the calculation to Mr U in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd considers 
that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mr U how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr U a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
switchDate of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Us 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require that Mr U 
provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the 
pension plan. Alexander David Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what Mr Us original personal pensions would have been worth at the end date had they grown 
in line with the benchmark.Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should 
be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr Us circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. And in his 
complaint Mr U has said he was a low risk investor.
As I have said above, I dont think Mr U would have switched with suitable advice. But he was 
invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than the low level of risk he says he was 
prepared to accept. So I think its likely he would have switched to lower risk funds if suitable advice 
had been given. I dont know exactly how he would have invested but I think the index I have outlined 
above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the lower level of risk that Mr U was 
willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Us risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to take a 
limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would reasonably 
put Mr U into that position.
It doesnt mean that Mr U would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather I 
consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr U could have 
obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to 
consider. Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further evidence or 
arguments. Mr Us representatives confirmed they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Us 
complaint. I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to 
Mr U as set out in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman