DRN-2979039
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited trading as Marsh 
Commercial. She isnt happy about the way a claim was dealt with under her legal 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Marsh contacted Mrs W in relation to a separate matter in August 2020. It outlined that it 
thought she had been treated unfairly in relation to a separate matter. Mrs W agreed and 
then asked Marsh to consider a claim in relation to an ongoing neighbour dispute that Mrs W 
had advanced in 2015.
Marsh advised that it wasnt involved in this decision which was a matter for her insurer who 
had looked at the claim and complaint back in 2015. And so, it advised Mrs W that she 
would need to advance any complaint about this or about the claim with her insurer. But 
Mrs W wasnt happy about this, so she complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for her but didnt uphold her complaint. She explained that 
the complaint Mrs W raised was a matter for her insurer and not Marsh, her broker, so she 
couldnt uphold the complaint.
As Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I can understand why Mrs Ws isnt happy about the way her claim was dealt with 
under her legal insurance policy this isnt a matter for Marsh, her insurance broker. And so, 
this complaint would have to be advanced to her insurer. I know Mrs W wont be happy 
about this, but Ill explain why.
Mrs W has provided a lot of information and detail around her claim which was considered 
by her insurer in 2015, alongside a complaint about this issue. And I can see that Mrs W had 
some communication with Marsh in relation to her claim. However, Marsh didnt consider the 
claim as that was a matter for her insurer and so any complaint about the claim would have 
to be directed to them.
I know Mrs W has linked Marshs acknowledgement of other problems in its letter of August 
2020 to this claim. But as our investigator explained, and Ive outlined above, Marsh didnt 
consider the claim. And it was only writing out in August 2020 because it had undertaken a 
pricing review and wanted to ensure it had treated all consumers fairly. Mrs W then chose to 
advance this issue with Marsh as she felt that she had an unpaid claim.
But Mrs W would have to advance this with her insurer as she did previously. Indeed, Marsh 
highlighted to Mrs W in its final response letter that she may wish to ask her insurer to 
reassess her claim. And that she would have to approach them direct. 
Ill leave that for Mrs W to consider now. But I must highlight this service may not be able to 
consider any further complaint about this now given the significant passage of time.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman