DRN-4141733
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the length of time it took Embark Investment Services Limited to 
switch his pension with them to his new provider. He says the delays they caused resulted in 
him losing out on investment growth in his new pension.
Mr G would like Embark to recompense him for the losses he says hes suffered.
What happened
In the latter part of 2020, Mr G visited his financial adviser to seek advice on his existing 
Embark pension plan. Following that meeting, his adviser submitted a transfer request to 
Elevate (Standard Life) to move his plan to them.
Embark received Mr Gs transfer forms from Elevate on 11 January 2021. Due to a high 
volume of work at the time, Embark didnt start processing the transfer request until 2 
February 2021.
On that day, Mr Gs holdings were sold down to cash, with the exception of his Woodford 
fund which at the time had been suspended. So, Mr Gs adviser asked for that holding to be 
transferred to Standard Life on an in-specie basis given it was illiquid at the time. At the 
same time, Embark wrote to Mr Gs financial adviser to inform them the holdings had been 
liquidated as instructed. Embark also shared details of the consumers assets with Standard 
Life and they were asked to confirm their acceptance of the transfer. Embark said they 
received confirmation from Standard Life that they were able to accept the in-specie transfer 
on 26 March 2021.
On 8 May 2021, Embark discovered the Woodford fund couldnt be transferred electronically, 
so completed a stock transfer form and sent it to the fund manager on 16 May 2021. After 
issuing several chasers and having to re-send the stock transfer form, Embark received 
confirmation the fund had been re-registered on 23 September 2021. 
Mr Gs assets were then transferred to Standard Life on 7 October 2021. Unhappy with the 
delays, Mr Gs financial adviser complained to Embark on his behalf. He said in summary, 
that he felt Embark had taken too long to arrange the transfer and consequently, Mr G had 
lost out on investment growth amounting to around £28,000 over the eight-month window 
the monies were sat in cash for.
After reviewing Mr Gs complaint, Embark concluded they were partially responsible for the 
delays hed suffered. They also said in summary,
They acknowledged they didnt start work on processing his transfer until four weeks 
after having received his paperwork. They also acknowledged the delay in issuing the 
stock transfer form to the fund managers, a further delay of around 52 days.
Embark offered Mr G £350 for the inconvenience the delays had caused him.
However, they didnt believe they should be held accountable for the other delays Mr G 
had experienced because they felt these were all outside of Embarks control. They said 
those delays were attributable to third parties and not themselves.
They explained it was standard industry practice to send the cash last after all funds had 
been transferred. They didnt believe they should be held accountable for the lost 
investment growth potential Mr G said hed suffered from having his monies in cash for 
so long.
Mr G was unhappy with Embarks response, so he referred his complaint to this service. In 
summary, he said Embarks delays resulted in him losing out on investment growth. He was 
able to demonstrate where his monies were planning to be invested following the switch to 
Standard Life and so, he felt Embark should recompense him for his losses.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Embark 
hadnt treated Mr G fairly. He said that Embark shouldve kept Mr Gs funds invested until 
such time as they understood what was happening with the Woodford fund. He felt that 
Embark should fully recompense Mr G for his losses as if hed transferred his pension on 2 
February 2021.
Embark however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, they said unless 
theyre told otherwise, theyll always follow the instructions theyre given, which in this 
instance was to encash the investments. In addition, they didnt feel it fair they should be 
asked to recompense Mr G for delays that were as a result of other parties. 
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as he didnt believe Embark had 
presented any new arguments hed not considered or responded to already.
Embark then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was 
planning to uphold Mr Gs complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in 
full below.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can understand Mr Gs frustration that the transfer of his pension didnt proceed as quickly 
as he felt it should have. In complex transfers such as that of a SIPP, the sending scheme is 
reliant on several third parties to complete the switch. But its important for me to say, this 
decision focuses solely on the actions of Embark whom this complaint is against. And, 
having carefully considered both sets of submissions, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill 
explain why below.
The suspension of the Woodford fund was widely known throughout the industry and its 
clear from the suitability report the consumer has sent in, they were aware of it too. But Im 
not convinced Embark shouldve kept the consumers other funds invested until such time as 
they knew what would happen with the Woodford fund. Its important to remember that 
Embark are a platform and not an adviser. When they receive an instruction to sell, its their 
responsibility to ensure they action that request as theyve been directed to do so in a 
prompt manner. Also, Embark werent able to undertake a transfer of the cash and send the 
illiquid fund at a later date. Thats because a partial transfer of a crystalised fund (as Mr Gs is) isnt possible. If the benefits have been designated to drawdown, the whole of the fund 
under the arrangement must be transferred. 
Mr G explained to this service that despite the delays, he didnt wish to purchase new funds 
in Embark with his uninvested cash because, for all he knew, the Woodford fund could be 
transferred shortly after any purchase hed made. That would mean hed then have the 
inconvenience of either selling down those new funds or transferring those to the new plan 
with the Woodford fund in-specie too. So, I can understand his reluctance to want to do so.
In shaping my decision, Ive carefully considered the actions of Embark along with the 
respective timeline on this complaint. When raising his concerns to this service, Mr G stated 
he originally submitted his transfer request to Embark on 3 December 2020. However, 
Embark states they only received the form on 11 January 2021. Im satisfied from what Ive 
seen that Embark received the request from Standard Life on 11 January 2021.
So, if Embark received the switch application on 11 January 2021 and Mr Gs monies were 
sent to Standard Life on 7 October 2021, that means the switch took a total of 270 days from 
start to finish. At different stages within that time period, Embark were waiting upon third 
parties to respond to them before they could proceed with the processing of the switch. Ive 
considered those interactions:
New Pension Provider
Embark contacted Standard Life on 2 February 2021 asking for confirmation they could 
accept the in-specie transfer. In their complaint response, Embark said they received 
confirmation back from Standard Life that they were able to accept the in-specie transfer on 
26 March 2021. However, from the file that Embark have sent this service, it seems to me 
that confirmation acceptance was actually received back from Standard Life on 18 March 
2021. Therefore, that element of the process took 45 days. Ive seen no evidence from the 
file that during those 45 days Embark chased Standard Life for a response until they were 
prompted by the consumers IFA on 12 March 2021. At which point they chased Standard 
Life and received a response back the same day  thats the 18 March 2021. I wouldve 
expected that during the month and a half the query was with Standard Life, Embark 
shouldve chased them sooner than they did and importantly, more often.
I have to decide on the balance of probabilities what would most likely have happened had 
Embark adopted a more robust follow-up and chase process. So, I think had Embark chased 
Standard Life earlier than they did when seeking confirmation of the in-specie transfer, I 
conclude that element of the process would most likely have been completed within no more 
than 21 days. I say that because Embark were only asking Standard Life for confirmation of 
their acceptance, rather than asking them to action any paperwork. So, it therefore follows 
that I find Embark responsible for delays of an additional 24 days (45 days  21 days).
Fund Manager
Ive also thought about the 131 days Embark were waiting for the Fund Manager to re-
register the fund. Embark sent the stock transfer form to them on 16 May 2021 and received 
it back on 23 September 2021. Embark chased the Fund Manager on four separate 
occasions including the 1 and 28 June along with the 17 and 24 August. On 4 September 
the Fund Manager asked Embark to resend the stock transfer form which they did 12 days 
later, on 16 September which Embark then received back a week later. Embark were chased 
themselves on multiple occasions by both the consumers adviser and Standard Life. I dont 
think their approach was robust enough. Thats because they waited 51 days between the 
second and third chases and they took nearly two weeks to resubmit the transfer form when 
asked to do so. Again, I have to decide on the balance of probabilities what would most likely have 
happened had Embark adopted a more robust follow-up and chase process. There was a 
window of 51 days between the second and third chases which I dont think is reasonable 
and drew out the process longer than it needed to. As such, Ive concluded that had Embark 
chased the Fund Manager earlier, it wouldve more likely than not brought the issue to a 
close sooner. I therefore find it reasonable to hold Embark accountable for 25 days of those 
delays for failing to chase in a timely manner. In addition, I also believe Embark should be 
responsible for part of the 12 day delay in sending the stock transfer form back to the Fund 
Manager. Given the length of time the consumer had already been waiting for this transfer, I 
can see no reason why that couldnt have been concluded within 2 days of the Fund 
Managers request and as such, I believe its reasonable to hold Embark accountable for an 
additional 10 day delay in that regard.
I think it more likely than not had Embark applied a closer focus and more regular but 
importantly, consistent chases, Mr Gs pension wouldve been re-registered sooner.
Summary - What delays should Embark be held responsible for?
So, as Ive already explained the full end to end process took 270 days.
Embark have already conceded theyre responsible for the first 23 days worth of delays - 
that takes account of the time it took them to start processing the application. Theyve also 
conceded theyre accountable for delays of 52 days - thats the time it took from Standard 
Life confirming theyd accept the transfer to the time they sent the stock transfer form to the 
fund managers. However, as Ive already explained, I think that should be 60 days because 
it seems to me that confirmation of acceptance was actually received back from Standard 
Life on 18 March 2021 and its at that point the clock starts ticking to 16 May.
My role is to ensure any outcome is fair and reasonable to both parties. Ive already 
explained in some instances Im having to work on the balance of probabilities and my 
assumptions are not an exact science. And in any switch process, theres multiple variables 
that can impact the length of time it takes to move from one provider to another. For 
example, processing needs to be undertaken and delays are typically inevitable, but, I think 
what Ive set out is equitable.
Therefore, Embark are responsible for the following delays:
270 days  (23 + 60 + 24 + 25 + 10) = 128 days
It therefore follows that I conclude had Embark adopted an efficient and consistent chase 
and follow-up process, Mr Gs pension switch wouldve been undertaken within 128 days 
which would mean his fund moved to Standard Life on 18 May 2021. That assumes Embark 
received the application on 11 January 2021. Therefore, Embark should pay Mr G for any 
lost investment growth he would have achieved between 19 May 2021 and 7 October 2021, 
when his pension was eventually switched away.
If Embark have not already done so, they should also pay Mr G the £350 theyve offered for 
the trouble and upset theyve caused him for the delays hes experienced as a consequence 
of their inaction.
Responses to my provisional decision
Embark responded explaining they agreed with the provisional decision but, they believed 
the redress calculation should start later than Id originally set out. Embark explained they 
originally sent the cash on 7 October 2021, however, this wasnt credited into Mr G's SIPP until 15 October 2021, six working days later. Purchases were then made on 15 October 
2021 and 18 October 2021.
Embark went on to say that meant if the cash balance was sent on Tuesday 18 May 2021, 
those monies would have been applied on Wednesday 26 May 2021, six working days later 
and the trades would have been placed on 26 May 2021 and 27 May 2021. So, Embark said 
a week should be added to the start date.
After sharing Embarks response to the provisional decision with Mr G, he didnt agree with 
their viewpoint. He said hed be disadvantaged by pushing the notional start date along by a 
week because having checked his investment, Mr G explained his plan wouldve benefited 
from a notable increase in growth had it been invested on 18 May 2021. He felt Embarks 
argument only stood up if the redress was altered from 26 May to 15 October.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already highlighted in my provisional decision, my role is to ensure any outcome is 
fair and reasonable to both parties. Ive already explained in some instances Im having to 
work on the balance of probabilities and my assumptions are not an exact science. In 
summary, Im still upholding Mr Gs complaint for the same reasons Ive given in the 
provisional decision but, Im making a small revision to the redress calculation Im asking 
Embark to undertake. Ill explain why below.
In summary, Embark are saying that after the monies left, it took six working days for those 
funds to reach and then be invested within Mr Gs pension. Theyre saying they shouldnt be 
held accountable for those delays. 
However, if I add a further allowance of six working days at the front end of the notional start 
date, that time would in effect be reducing the delay to 136 days rather than the 142 days 
Ive already determined Embark is responsible for (if I left the end date as 7 October 2021). 
Thats because in my provisional decision, Id run the loss calculation to 7 October 2021 
(when the monies left Embark) and not the 15 October 2021 (when the monies were actually 
invested).
Had the investment started after the six working days on 26 May 2021, then the monies 
wouldve already been invested and therefore earning a return between 7 October 2021 and 
15 October 2021. So, that time period must be accounted for when considering any lost 
growth potential Mr G hasnt benefited from.
In addition, had the monies been sent on 18 May 2021, they wouldnt have been invested 
until 26 May 2021 and therefore Mr G wouldnt have benefited from whatever growth there 
wouldve been during that interim period.
Therefore, I am altering the redress to reflect what I think would most likely have happened 
in reality. Ive concluded the delay calculation should run from the actual point the money 
wouldve been invested in Mr Gs new pension, which is 26 May 2021, and run until 15 
October 2021. If I dont run the loss calculation up until 15 October 2021, Mr G would be 
losing out on any growth he wouldve benefited from during the period of 7 October 2021 to 
15 October 2021  because as Ive already explained, the monies wouldve been invested 
during that period.Whilst Ive moved things along by a week, the time period is still 142 days which Mr G 
should be recompensed for. As such, I require Embark to take the following steps below to 
put things right:
Putting things right
To compensate Mr G fairly Embark should:
Compare the performance of Mr G's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Embark should pay into Mr G's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation. Embarks payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief. Embark shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Embark are unable to pay the compensation into Mr G's pension plan, they should pay that 
amount direct to Mr G. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the 
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr G wont be able to 
reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr G's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Embark considers theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr G how much 
they have taken off. Embark should also give Mr G a tax deduction certificate in respect of 
interest if Mr G asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Embark 
PensionSwitched to 
Standard 
LifeASI 
MyPortfolio 
Index IV 
fund.Between 26 
and 27 May 
2021 in line 
with when 
the actual 
funds were 
purchasedBetween 15 
and 18 
October 
2021 in line 
with when 
the actual 
funds were 
purchased8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the end 
date to the 
date of 
settlement** ** Despite the fact the consumer has switched their pension away, any loss Mr G has 
suffered needs to be brought up to date. To keep things simple for both parties, rather than 
asking Embark to seek out third party information from Mr Gs new provider calculating what 
would've happened with his fund, Im satisfied that adding 8% simple interest per year is a 
fair award.
Actual value
This means the actual amount of Mr Gs Standard Life pension at the end date.
Fair value
This is what Mr Gs Embark Plan would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Embark should in their calculation use the value of what Mr Gs fund would have been on 26 
and 27 May 2021 had all units been switched to the ASI MyPortfolio Index IV fund.
Any withdrawal from the Embark pension should be deducted from the fair value calculation 
at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr G had intended to switch his plan to Standard Life in February 2021. Ive started the 
redress at 26 May 2021 as thats the point at which the consumers pension shouldve been 
with Standard Life by. Therefore, Embark are responsible for the delays theyve caused 
thereafter.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Embark Investment Services Limited to pay Mr G the 
redress as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman