DRN-3713920
The complaint
Mr R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan has unfairly increased the 
premiums and excesses of his lifetime pet insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2012, Mr R took out a PetPlan policy underwritten by Allianz to cover his dog. Over the 
years, the premium Mr R has been asked to pay has gone up. It was £233.70 in the first 
year, but by the renewal in 2022, it had reached £815.39. The excess too had increased 
from £75 to £115 and the latest renewal also said that Mr R would have to pay 20% of any 
claim over and above the excess.
In October 2021, Mr R complained to Allianz. He said he was aware from the outset of the 
policy that the premium and excess could increase, but he believed the level of increase to 
be unjust and immoral. He said Allianz was aware as the dog gets older or if they have an 
ongoing condition, it could be difficult and potentially expensive to get a policy elsewhere 
and it was abusing its position as a lifetime insurer. Mr R asked Allianz to compensate him 
£500, cap his premium at £467.40 (double the first premium) and the excess at £90 for the 
duration of the policy.
Allianz looked into his complaint and explained the premiums and excess charged will 
increase over the lifetime to reflect the risk involved. It said the primary factors related to the 
increases are the dogs age, tax increases and veterinary cost rises. Allianz said the 
increase in premium and excesses have been calculated correctly for the risk presented to it 
and in line with the terms of the insurance contract Mr R took with them. But Allianz offered 
Mr R a 10% reduction in his 2021 renewal price as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr R was unhappy with the response to his complaint and referred it to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She said that insurers are entitled to decide how much to 
charge for insurance and we do not have the power to tell them to change that. She noted 
the policy documents from inception had said the premiums and excesses could change at 
each renewal. But our investigator said that as the policy in this case was a lifetime one, the 
wording used ought to have been clearer that the increases could be significant and 
unlimited. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr R now finds himself in the difficult position of having 
to decide whether or not to continue with the insurance. She recognised the upset this would 
have caused Mr R and recommended that Allianz should pay Mr R £350. 
Allianz didnt agree with our investigators reasoning but agreed to pay £350 to settle the 
complaint. Mr R didnt agree and stood by his request for higher compensation and a cap in 
premiums and excesses going forward. As there was no agreement, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has raised arguments about the way lifetime pet policies work generally. I cant deal 
with general points and can only deal with specific issues affecting Mr R and his policy on an 
individual basis. Mr R is however free to provide his feedback and arguments to the industry 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  if he wishes. If the FCA agrees with him, 
it has the power to look to the industry to improve things for consumers. Ive read what hes 
said in this regard, but I wont comment further as it is outside my remit to do so. 
Insurance companies calculate their premiums to cover likely claims under an insurance 
contract, with a margin on top to ensure the viability of the insurer. Each company is free to 
take into account different factors when working out what it needs to charge. This service 
doesnt have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost or what level 
excesses should be capped at.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet has or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered. 
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr R took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. 
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet if premiums are paid. The cost of providing 
this cover can be expensive and the annual premium of these lifetime policies can go up 
significantly at renewal. There is no limit to how much the premium could be.
While Mr Rs premium and excesses have increased, Allianz has sent renewal notices each 
year setting out the premium and excess. Mr R has accepted those renewal terms by 
renewing the policy on each occasion. The evidence Ive seen shows Mr R has been treated 
in the same way as any other customer with a similar pet, the same level of cover and has 
had the policy for the same length of time. So, I cant say Allianz has singled him out or 
treated him unfairly compared to its other customers.
Mr R has told us he was aware from the outset that the premiums and excesses could 
change and that the policy he bought was more expensive than others on the market at the 
time. But he chose this policy as it provided cover for the lifetime of his dog, should he suffer 
a recurring or ongoing condition. So he made a balanced judgement to pay more for his 
insurance for greater peace of mind should something happen to his dog.
As hes acknowledged, Allianz did tell Mr R that premiums and excesses were variable. 
While it will have been difficult for Allianz to be precise as things change, it will have been 
insuring dogs for many years and it will have had an idea of how costs increased for 
customers over time. I think Allianz could have done more to give greater detail about the 
potential level of the increases. So I can understand Mr Rs unhappiness with the situation 
he was placed in due to the level of increases. But I cant say the premiums and excesses 
have gone up unreasonably or, as Ive already said, tell Allianz to reduce them.
I can however make an award for compensation for the upset the situation has caused Mr R, 
and Ive thought carefully about that. Our investigator recommended an award of £350 which 
Mr R rejected. He said our investigator had awarded that amount before considering further 
points hed raised about increases in the excess and the 20% charge Ive mentioned above. I acknowledge that Mr R added further evidence to his complaint after our investigator 
reached her first view of it, but her view remained the same after those additions. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr R, but I agree with her. The additional information Mr R raised was included 
within renewal notices which our investigator had considered in reaching her view. She and I 
acknowledge these caused him upset when they were received. But the information was all 
received at the same time, and I dont think it is appropriate to calculate the award based on 
each point contained within the same communication; the level of upset will have been the 
same.
On balance, having considered the level of awards we make in similar circumstances and 
taking into account Mr R was aware his premiums and excesses were likely to go up over 
time, I think £350 is a fair award in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed 
by my decision, but I hope what Ive said has been helpful. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan 
should pay Mr R £350 for the reasons Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman