DRN-3417528
The complaint
This complaint is about a late payment marker Mrs T says Mars Capital Finance Limited 
(MC) incorrectly reported against her mortgage account.
What happened
Mrs T made a partial payment to her mortgage account on 31 August 2020. The payment 
cleared on her account the next working day, 1 September 2020. 
MC reported a late payment and a marker was applied to Mrs Ts credit file. Mrs T says she 
was unaware of the marker until she tried to remortgage in 2021 and had complications with 
her application. Mrs T felt that she had made the payment on time and that MC had 
incorrectly reported the late payment.
MC investigated Mrs Ts complaint but said the funds didnt clear in August, so a late 
payment was reported, but it agreed to remove the marker from Mrs Ts credit file as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mrs T still thinks MC made a mistake and says that it should award her compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Ts concerns, but they didnt think MC had done anything 
wrong. As Mrs T disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
In order to uphold this complaint I would need to find that MC did something wrong. 
Both parties accept that Mrs T had to make a payment in August 2020, so I dont need to 
consider this aspect further.
Ive seen a screenshot Mrs Ts provided that shows she sent a faster payment to MC on 
31 August 2020. And if the payment had cleared the same day, it would have been made on 
time. But the payment was made on a bank holiday, so it didnt clear on Mrs Ts account until 
the next working day, 1 September 2020. 
While I understand Mrs Ts frustration, the payment was received by MC in September, 
which means it was late. I dont think MC is responsible for this. Mrs T would have needed to 
make her payment earlier to ensure it cleared on her account before the end of the month, 
factoring in weekends and bank holidays.
MC has a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies, so it was right to 
report that Mrs Ts payment was received late. But as the evidence confirmed Mrs T had 
attempted to make the payment on time, MC offered to remove the marker from her credit 
file as a gesture of goodwill. MC didnt have to do this. So, I think MC has been fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award 
compensation to Mrs T as MC didnt do anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman