DRN-3634370
The complaint
Ms B complains Aviva Insurance Limited automatically renewed her motor insurance policy 
even though she had opted out of automatic renewals in its online application.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. And the facts of what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
In summary, Ms B tried to stop her policy from auto-renewing, and thought she had when 
she turned off the function in the app. Ms B later found out that applied to the following year 
(as she was already in her renewal period when she turned it off). She complained the app 
didnt make that clear, and Aviva stopped the policy renewing before any money was taken 
out. It also offered £50 compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Ms B didnt accept Avivas offer and brought her complaint to our service. Ms B said she 
didnt get a reply to an email she sent about the issue and spent half a day sorting things 
out. Ms B also raised concerns about the apps user experience. Our investigator didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. They thought Aviva had done all it could to resolve things 
and thought the offer of compensation was more than they would have suggested. 
Ms B didnt accept the investigators opinion and thought the fundamental issues of the 
complaint had been missed. She said that she thinks Aviva dodged a fundamental issue with 
its app. Ms B is also convinced that had she not pursued the issue, Aviva would have held 
her to the renewal. Our investigator didnt change their opinion and said they could only 
comment on Ms Bs experience of the app and not that of others. They didnt think they 
could tell Aviva how to run its business. Our investigator also said they couldnt comment on 
what would have happened if the policy started, as Aviva took steps to ensure the policy 
didnt renew. 
As Ms B didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our investigator reached and for similar reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing to Ms B, but Ill explain why. 
Aviva accepts there were issues in the service Ms B received. So, Ive thought about what 
happened and how it tried to rectify things. I appreciate Ms B doesnt agree with the 
settlement it put forward, but I find its fair for the following reasons: 
The layout of the app, its functionality, and the level of testing it chooses to carry out 
on it, are all matters for Aviva to decide. They arent things we would look to interfere 
with. Nevertheless, Aviva acknowledges the app didnt say that turning off the auto-
renew function would not stop the upcoming renewal, only future renewals. It said it 
referred this issue to the relevant department to consider making changes to the app 
and I think thats a reasonable response. 
When things go wrong, we expect a business to put them right, and usually ask it to 
put the consumer back in the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred. It must therefore ensure the consumer hasnt lost out financially. And 
address any practical or emotional impact the error has had on them. 
When Ms B made Aviva aware of the error, it cancelled the policy before it renewed 
and before any payment was taken from her account. So, Im satisfied Ms B hasnt 
lost out financially because of what happened. 
Aviva says Ms B wouldve been able to cancel the policy even if it had renewed and 
Ive not seen evidence to suggest otherwise. Nevertheless, we would only expect 
Aviva to compensate for the impact its error had on her. And I dont think it needs to 
compensate Ms B for what could have happened. 
I also know that Ms B is concerned about others who might have been affected by 
this aspect of the apps functionality  but  our role is to resolve individual 
complaints, so I can only look at this complaint, and any impact on her.
I appreciate this was already a difficult time for Ms B, so I can understand why she 
would have been concerned about the policy renewing and a payment being taken 
from her account. I also accept Ms Bs email went unanswered, which meant she had 
to take time out to phone Aviva three days later. However, the policy was 
immediately cancelled. Unfortunately, using financial services wont always be hassle 
free and mistakes do happen. Though there was some inconvenience to Ms B, Im 
satisfied the issue was rectified in a reasonable amount of time. So, in the 
circumstances, I consider Avivas offer of £50 is fair compensation. And I wont tell it 
to do anything more.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman