DRN-1993518
 
The complaint
Mr L complained about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy he said was 
mis-sold to him. 
Mr Ls mortgage and MPPI have probably long since been closed. Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited is responsible for answering the complaint, so Ill therefore mainly refer to 
Kensington throughout this decision.
What happened
One of my colleague ombudsmen issued a decision recently confirming that this was a case 
we could look into under our rules. Although neither party can tell us very much at all about 
the mortgage or the sale of the MPPI policy, the ombudsman said it did look as if such a 
policy was sold  or at least is likely to have been sold, based on the evidence weve seen.
On that basis, one of our adjudicators then assessed the mis-sale allegation. And they told 
Mr L its unlikely to be upheld due to lack of information and evidence. Mr L disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans final decision about the mis-sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
Whilst I dont doubt Mr L genuinely and honestly may feel that MPPI was mis-sold to him, 
theres virtually no evidence to support this. In fact, the only evidence we even have of an 
MPPI ever existing at all, in connection with his mortgage, is a copy of a mortgage 
statement from 16 years ago where ASU ins premium is listed on that document. 
Kensington denies this shows that MPPI was sold and says, in any case, it no longer has 
any records left because theyve been weeded out. It also says this could be describing 
other types of insurance.
Its not particularly unusual, or indeed unreasonable, that Kensington hasnt kept records 
from the time, given how long ago it was now. Mr Ls main point of complaint is that MPPI 
policy was added on without his knowledge or consent. But Im afraid I dont think that view 
bears much scrutiny. Mr L himself produced the copy of the statement; and if hes alleging 
that the above description clearly shows MPPI was present, then it also follows he would 
have been able to see this on the statements. If hed never asked for, or knew about, the 
MPPI then clearly Mr L would have been quite likely to challenge why it evidently was 
appearing on the statements he was being sent. Ive seen no evidence he did challenge tist 
until now, many years later.
The evidence is therefore stronger, that if MPPI existed, Mr L had agreed to it and could 
certainly see it was there.
Turning to suitability, I note Kensingtons assertion that it doesnt have anything to refer to. 
So, in referring to what weve been told by Mr L, he says he had only very limited sickness 
protection with his job. In my view, this would actually make such a policy to be of obvious 
use and therefore suitable for his situation. His mortgage would have been secured against 
his home and so not being able to pay it would have resulted in serious consequences. He 
also appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see.
In short, I cant say if Kensington did everything right or provided all the information it ought 
to have done. But neither party in this case has any compelling evidence, other than a 
copied statement from 2004, which could be interpreted in many different ways. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont find anything that supports the allegation that such a 
policy was ever mis-sold to him. There simply isnt enough evidence.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. And I dont direct Kensington Mortgage Company Limited to 
do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman