DRN-3546238
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to prevent him losing 
money to a safe account scam. 
Mr M has brought his complaint through a representative. But for ease of reading, Ill mostly 
just refer to Mr M himself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief summary of some of the key events here. 
In March 2022 Mr M was the victim of a safe account scam. He was contacted by a 
scammer pretending to be from Nationwides fraud team. After gaining his trust, the 
scammer tricked Mr M into paying around £3,000 from his Nationwide account to an account 
he held with another bank R. And from R Mr M was tricked into sending the money to 
another account the scammer was presumably in control of. 
Mr M complained to Nationwide but they declined to provide a refund. They said they were 
unable to find the payment that Mr M had referred to in his complaint to them. But in any 
case they said that they wouldnt offer a refund as it had been paid to an account in Mr Ms 
own name, they recommended he should take this up with R. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In summary, he didnt think Nationwide ought to have intervened in the 
circumstances. As Mr M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for very similar 
reasons. Contrary to Mr Ms initial submissions, there wasnt a £3,000 transfer from his 
Nationwide account. The statement that Mr M himself has provided shows that there was 
actually a series of seven £400 payments and a single payment of £194. The payments 
were debit card payments to top up Mr Ms account with R. Prior to the payments being 
made, the account was slightly overdrawn and afterwards the account was at its arranged 
overdraft limit. Mr M also says that he was a student at the time with limited knowledge of 
financial affairs which left him vulnerable to scams such as this. 
I accept that certain groups, such as younger people or students are potentially more 
susceptible to certain types of scams. But I dont think that, in itself, is a reason for 
Nationwide to have done anything differently in the specific circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr M has correctly highlighted industry guidance which means that Nationwide should be 
alert to payments that might indicate that their customers are at risk of financial harm from 
fraud. The evidence Ive seen on Mr Ms linked complaint show that hed made numerous 
debit card payments from his Nationwide account to fund his account with R since at least 
January 2021. These were typically for relatively small amounts, but did include £100 in 
March 2022, £400 in March 2021, and £112 in January 2021. 
In this context, and with the established link between the two accounts, I dont think 
Nationwide not taking further action before processing the payments relevant to this 
complaint was unreasonable. I acknowledge that the payments were made in relatively quick 
succession and that they made full use of the available funds. But this doesnt change my 
mind as to whether its reasonable to have expected Nationwide to have done more. The 
payments in total were for just under £3,000 and financial firms need to strike a balance 
between following payment instructions and stopping and checking for potential fraud or 
scams. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the payments were so unusual, 
out of character or represented such a risk that Nationwide should have blocked the account 
and done more. 
Once Mr M reported this to Nationwide, given these were card payments, the only potential 
consideration for recovery would have been the chargeback scheme. But there wouldnt 
have been a valid option under that scheme that would have helped. So I dont think 
Nationwide failed to do anything that hindered Mr M recovering his money, particularly as the 
account with R was his. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr M lost this money to a scam. But as I dont think Nationwide are 
responsible for failures which either caused the loss or hindered its recovery, Im not going to 
tell them they need to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman