DRN-1395374
 
The complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of P, a limited company, that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) has 
declined a charge back request and a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA) to refund the cost of seminar and interview fees he paid for on Ps credit card. 
He also complains about the service he received when raising the complaint.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr J and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
In January 2019 Mr J used the company credit card to pay for a two-day seminar fee run by 
the Faculty of Party Wall Surveyors. Having attended the course Mr J then applied to join the 
Faculty and used the same credit card to pay for the mandatory interview fee. Mr J was not 
successful at interview and following that contacted Barclays asking them to refund the two 
fees because he felt the seminar didnt deliver the educational training he expected, and he 
hadnt received the service hed been promised in relation to the interview.
Barclays declined the Section 75 claim on the basis that those types of claim are not 
available to limited companies such as P. Further it declined to raise a chargeback dispute 
with the card provider because it said there were no grounds upon which it could raise one.
Mr J was unhappy with Barclays final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Barclays 
had done anything wrong. 
Mr J didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
When Mr J contacted Barclays he was told that a claim couldnt be made under section 75. 
Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or 
services, and the provider of the credit, if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But that is only a right for a consumer and a limited 
company is not a consumer in the context of the Consumer Credit Act. So Im afraid there is 
no claim here under Section 75 because the contract was made with P and not Mr J 
personally, as evidenced by the payment on the limited company credit card.
So, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator that Barclays are entitled to 
reject the claim as it is not one Mr J can bring on behalf of P. 
I turn now to the issue of chargeback claim. This is a process by which some disputes are 
resolved between card issuer, in this case Barclays, and merchants under the relevant card 
scheme rules. The chargeback rules arent set by Barclays. Those rules are set by the card 
provider, whose symbol is on the card. In this case it is Mastercard. That card provider has 
an agreement with lots of banks as to how its cards are used. The agreement also covers 
when Barclays can try to make a chargeback for its customers, to try to get the money spent 
on a card back. Those rules are quite strict, and Barclays cant change them. Making a 
chargeback request just means Barclays will ask for the money back. It doesnt mean it will 
get it. 
Barclays arent required to ask the scheme provider for a transaction to be reversed, but 
they can do so if they think its likely to succeed. We generally say its good practice for a 
card provider it to try one if theres a reasonable prospect of success. Equally, if Barclays 
think the chargeback is likely to be rejected by the card provider then they dont have to raise 
it. 
In this case there is no dispute that the seminar took place and Mr J attended on it. Where 
the dispute lies is that Mr J believes that the seminar was not what was described, simply a 
vehicle to sell books and allow people to tell stories instead of being trained about the Party 
Wall Act. But Barclays say that isnt a ground upon which it could raise a chargeback and 
I agree. That is a subjective view of the seminar and its content and I think Barclays are 
entitled to come to the conclusion, objectively, that such a chargeback claim was likely to 
fail. As such I think they were right in not raising it. In relation to the second payment Mr J 
made for attending the interview, Mr J says that he made a mistake on his submission 
papers and was told that it wouldnt matter when in fact it did. I cant say this is a ground 
upon which a chargeback dispute is likely to have been successful either, because the 
merchant provided the interview but the result was just not to Mr J's satisfaction. So Barclays 
were correct in deciding not to raise this as a claim either. 
Mr J has complained about the service he received from Barclays staff during the course of 
his complaint. I have listened to the recorded telephone calls, and I am afraid I cannot say 
that there has been poor service. When Mr J called he was told repeatedly about a Section 
75 claim and how it was not relevant in his circumstances. I also heard the advisors trying to 
explain to him at length why a chargeback claim was not appropriate either. Whilst Mr J 
disputed the explanation he was given the advisors still tried to help him understand it. They 
explained that his legal rights were unaffected and that he could choose to take a case in the 
County Court, but in so far as Section 75 and chargeback disputes were concerned they 
would not be advancing those. There was nothing in the calls which I could say was 
unprofessional. I have noted that Mr J feels an advisor hung up the phone on him, and I can 
certainly understand how he would think that because the call did disconnect. But having 
listened to the call I am very confident the advisor did not disconnect it deliberately, if at all. 
The flow of conversation was such that the advisor was in the middle of discussing the issue 
with Mr J and so it seems unlikely that he would have deliberately disconnected the call.
My final decisionSo, although Mr J will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint against Barclays 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman