DRN-2786605
The complaint
Mr V complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his credit card account.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr V noticed two online payments to the same overseas merchant that 
he says he didnt make. One was for £366.10 and the other for £445.86 and they were made 
on 10 September 2020. He says he was home that day and hadnt given his phone or card 
details to anyone else.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that the payments were verified 
with one-time passcodes that had been sent to the phone number it had on record for Mr V. 
A code had been input to verify payments. It had no evidence that there was any problem 
with Mr Vs phone  and hed told it that his service provider had confirmed this. Santander 
accepted that there had been service failings when Mr V complained and paid him £75 in 
compensation for this.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld, and Santander do anything 
further. She said that the payments were made within minutes of each other. Two further 
ones were attempted but didnt go through. Mr V said that he had kept his card safe in the 
sleeve of his phone case. Both were in his possession before and after the payments. And 
he says he never received any messages with the one-time passcodes to his phone.
Mr V had explained he lives with his wife only and was staying at home a lot due to the 
COVID-19 restrictions and no one could have accessed his details. Our investigator said that 
even if his card details had someone been intercepted that wouldnt explain the use of the 
one-time passcodes. She was satisfied from the technical evidence that these had gone to 
Mr Vs number. Although he said hed had his phone repaired in August 2020, there had 
been no errors with his phone after that and he had contacted his phone provider and had 
this confirmed. The person making these payments would have needed to have access to 
his phone to verify them. So, she didnt think that these payments werent authorised. She 
thought that the compensation that had been paid was reasonable for the service issues in 
dealing with things.
Mr V, who had a representative in this complaint, didnt agree. Mr V said that he didnt 
receive the passcodes so couldnt have confirmed the payments. He believed that his SIM 
card or mobile had been cloned and his details used. And he wanted the location of the 
response to the codes to be investigated. Further attempted payments after this were 
blocked so Santander must have known that this was fraud. It should believe him and not 
take the easy option to close the complaint. This only promoted more fraud. He said that he 
had no association with the country where the money was sent, and he had never heard of 
the merchant involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated. Where credit is involved, as is the case here on credit 
cards, the Consumer Credit Act 1974 applies, and it states that a consumer wouldnt be 
liable for an unauthorised payment unless they consented to someone else having 
possession of that card.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr V either authorise the payments on the account or allow someone else to use the 
card as Santander says.
Im satisfied from the information Santander has provided that these payments were 
authenticated. They were made with Mr Vs card details and there was an additional security 
check which required the input of a one-time passcode. Ive seen that these were sent to the 
mobile number that Santander had for Mr V and that a response was received to confirm 
each payment.
The issue I need to decide on is whether Mr V consented to the use of his card and so 
authorised the payments.
Mr V has said he doesnt use his card much online and had kept it safe. There is no clear 
explanation of how his card details were discovered. But I accept that it is possible that these 
had been intercepted when hed used the card before. That wouldnt explain though how a 
fraudster was able to overcome the additional security measure of 3D secure where a 
passcode from Santander was required to complete the payments. As I say the evidence is 
that these were sent to Mr Vs mobile number and then were input.
Santander has no evidence that the SIM on the phone was swapped as Mr V claims. And he 
has spoken to his mobile phone service provider who could see no evidence of this either. 
While I understand his point that the passcodes must have gone to a third party somehow 
Im afraid there is nothing to support that. I dont see what Santander would be able to 
investigate further and I know Mr V contacted the police about this and says he was told they 
couldnt help him with this. 
I understand what Mr V says about these payments. As they were to the same merchant he 
says a fraudster may have been attempting smaller ones to see if they went through. I 
appreciate what he says about having no connection with this merchant. I wont be able to 
say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. Im afraid Im not 
persuaded on the evidence that a person acting without Mr Vs consent would have been 
able to make the payments. And so, I find that they were authorised.  Given this I dont think 
it was reasonable to expect Santander to have made any further checks about these. So, I 
wont be requiring it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman