DRN-2460161
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax rejected his credit card account 
application and asked him inappropriate questions.
What happened
Mr C says he applied to Halifax for a credit card account, but that application was 
unsuccessful. He says Halifax asked him inappropriate questions about his income and 
benefits and those questions were discriminatory. Mr C says he would like the Halifax 
advisor spoken to about what happened, and action taken against him.
Halifax says it dealt appropriately with the application and asked correct questions of Mr C. It 
says Mr C ended the call before the application could be assessed or progressed.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the Halifax advisor Mr C spoke to was polite throughout the call and asked 
appropriate questions, but Mr C ended the call. 
Mr C doesnt accept that view and has asked for it to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders, such as Halifax in this case, must assess all applications for affordability and so 
must ask questions about income and outgoings. I have listened to the call between Mr C 
and Halifax and Im satisfied the Halifax advisor was polite throughout the call and explained 
to Mr C that he needed to ask questions about his income. I appreciate Mr C says that was 
inappropriate but, for the reasons I have explained, I find Halifax is obliged to check such 
matters.
Im satisfied that Mr C ended the call and didnt complete the credit card application. In those 
circumstances Im satisfied that Halifax acted fairly and didnt make a mistake by rejecting 
the credit card application.
I have explained that Halifax is obliged to assess income and outgoings and I think would 
ask any potential applicant the same questions. So, it follows that I dont think Halifax has 
discriminated against Mr C and could not assist him further as he ended the call.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax has acted fairly and so I cant order it do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman