DRN-3779995
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc requested additional identification documents when 
he asked to transfer funds out of his account and with the delays this caused. Hes also 
unhappy with the customer service he received.
What happened
Mr H held an instant saver account with Santander and used to have his monthly pension 
paid into this account. Mr H lives abroad so when he required access to his funds, he 
emailed a dedicated team at Santander to transfer funds to his overseas account. Mr H was 
able to make withdrawals in this way for a number of years without any issues.
In November 2021, when Mr H asked Santander to transfer funds out of his account, they 
required him to complete additional verification. Mr H completed this and says his funds 
were eventually transferred to his overseas account. Mr H didnt raise a complaint at the 
time.
However, when Mr H asked Santander to make another transfer in April 2022, they 
requested additional documents from him to verify his identify and address. Mr H wasnt able 
to provide any documents to show proof of account ownership and proof of address. So, he 
tried to contact Santander by phone. 
Mr H explains he experienced long wait times when he tried to call Santander and these 
calls were very costly. He says the calls either cut off or he ran out of money to continue with 
the calls. He told us that he wasnt successful in using the online chat function as he didnt 
have a banking ID, and he didnt use online banking due to it being unsafe. 
Unhappy with the delays in accessing his funds, Mr H raised a complaint. He asked 
Santander to compensate him for the call costs and financial loss he suffered. Santander 
apologised to Mr H but explained that they hadnt done anything wrong by asking him to 
prove his identity to send money overseas and without this theyd be within their rights to 
refuse to make the payment. 
Santander tried to explore alternative documents which Mr H could provide to support his 
request. They suggested that Mr H provided a copy of his bank statement for his overseas 
account. Mr H wasnt able to provide his overseas bank statement as proof of address as the 
address hed given both banks were different. Santander told Mr H that hed need to update 
his address to be able to use the overseas bank statement as proof of address. 
Although Santander didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, they acknowledged that Mr H 
was trying to get hold of them for the past few days and had incurred costs which hed 
perceived was roughly £200. They agreed to credit Mr Hs account with £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill. They suggested that Mr H email the dedicated team with the identification 
documents he could provide along with an explanation of his personal circumstances which 
prevented him from proving his address and his request would be considered. They also 
asked Mr H to consider signing up for telephone banking and online banking to avoid issues 
in the future. 
Mr H says he sent the dedicated team an email as suggested, but he hadnt received a 
reply. He also didnt receive a response to his chaser nor had the transfer been completed. 
So, Mr H referred his complaint to our service. He explained that he required the funds for 
medical and business expenses so was seeking compensation of £10,000 for the financial 
loss and the distress and inconvenience he was caused. Santander actioned Mr Hs transfer 
request in June 2022. 
Our investigator said that Santander can take measures to verify their customers under the 
terms and conditions of the account. She was satisfied Santander made reasonable 
requests to check Mr Hs identity. She said that Santander werent liable for the losses Mr H 
had experienced and the compensation offered of £200 for the difficulties he had in reaching 
them was fair and reasonable. Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to set out that my decision here only relates to the complaint points Mr H 
raised with our service in April 2022 as set out above. I note Mr H has since had further 
problems since August 2022. In summary, Mr H is also unhappy with the way Santander 
dealt with this further request to transfer funds, the delays in receiving his funds and not 
receiving his statements, including a closing statement. 
Im pleased to see our investigator has assisted Mr H with these additional issues. Mr H has 
recently received his final balance and confirmation that his account balance is now zero. 
However, the further issues Mr H experienced since August 2022 dont form part of this 
complaint. These issues are separate, even if theyre linked to Mr Hs initial complaint 
referred to our service in April 2022. Since the additional issues from August 2022 dont form 
part of the original complaint, Im not able to consider them within this decision.
I understand Mr H had made attempts to communicate with Santanders complaints 
department regarding his additional concerns. Its unclear if he has been able to raise a 
complaint yet. If he hasnt been, hell need to do so first with Santander and then refer the 
matter to our service under a separate complaint. Our investigator will be able to help Mr H if 
he requires further assistance.
 
I note Mr H has made detailed and extensive submissions to our service  most of which 
relate to the problems hes experienced since August 2022. I want to assure him that Ive 
read and considered everything he has sent to us. But I dont intend to respond to every 
point individually, or possibly in the level of detail hed like. 
Instead, Ill only concentrate on what I think is relevant and as explained above, only on the 
original complaint that was referred to us. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because I havent considered it, but simply because I dont think I need to comment on it to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs account explain that Santander can refuse any payment 
instruction, in certain circumstances, for example, if it may place them in breach of any 
legislation or law or they reasonably suspect that it may result in any regulatory action 
against them. Santander are required to take reasonable steps to protect their customers from fraud and 
scams. They might be held liable for any foreseeable losses if they breach their duty of care. 
Its not unusual for a bank to carry out checks to verify their customer before they make a 
transfer out or a withdrawal from their account. 
While additional checks can be inconvenient for customers at times, its necessary for banks 
to complete these checks to ensure transactions are genuine and appropriately authorised to 
protect the customer and the bank themselves.
I appreciate Mr H has made the same transaction to the same details several times in the 
past. But this doesnt mean Santander are wrong to carry out checks before actioning his 
payment instruction. 
The terms and conditions say that Santander must be satisfied of Mr Hs identity and may 
him ask to show identification when making a withdrawal. Although Mr H provided Santander 
with identification documents in November 2021, Santander were within their rights to 
request identification documents again when he made a further request to remove funds 
from his account in April 2022. So, I cant agree that Santander have done anything wrong 
by verifying Mr Hs identity before agreeing to process his payment instruction. 
Ive looked at the information Santander asked for and I dont think they were requesting 
unreasonable information from Mr H, given that the payment instruction was being made 
from abroad and via email. Mr H seems to have had difficulty with providing proof of account 
ownership and proof of address.
Although Mr H returned his passbook, he couldve used bank statements as proof of account 
ownership. Ive seen evidence to show that Santander sent Mr H annual statements to the 
address they had on file. I appreciate Mr H says he hasnt received statements since 2018, 
but he doesnt appear to have chased Santander for these previously. I can also see Mr H 
received the statement of 3 August 2019, as hes supplied our service a copy of it. In any 
event, having looked at Santanders system notes from 2018 onwards, Im satisfied theyve 
sent Mr H statements.
Also, Mr H didnt update his address with Santander with his current address which he has 
provided to his overseas bank. If Mr H had done so, which is his responsibility under the 
terms and conditions of his account, he couldve used his overseas bank statements as 
proof of address. 
And Mr H couldve also mitigated his situation by registering for telephone banking 
credentials which I understand hes refused to do. This wouldve allowed him to complete the 
transactions over the phone. I note Mr H registered for Voice ID in November 2021, but 
Santander has explained this wouldve only given access to his balance and wouldnt have 
allowed him to make transfers out of the account without credentials.
I can see Santander didnt make Mr Hs payment until 1 June 2022, which was around six 
weeks from his initial request. However, Mr H wasnt able to provide the information 
Santander asked for, which as Ive explained, theyre entitled to request. Santander agreed 
to process the payment on 30 May 2022 based on the information Mr H provided on 17 May 
and 23 May 2022. Santander did so at their discretion which they didnt have to agree to, as 
Mr H was unable to provide the proof of ownership and proof of address requested.
So, I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the delays in Mr Hs payment instruction 
being completed. It follows, I dont think Santander are liable for any financial loss or distress 
and inconvenience that Mr H has suffered as a result  which includes Mr Hs claim for the 
money he lost due to changing his vehicle and the losses in his wifes business. Ill turn to the customer service issues next. Mr H has provided me with a copy of his phone 
records. While this doesnt show the cost of calls, I can see Mr H made numerous calls to 
Santander and spent a significant amount of time trying to reach them. I dont dispute this 
wouldve been very frustrating for him.
Having looked at the length of the calls, I can see most of them were disconnected within 15 
minutes. While I appreciate that calling from abroad was costly for Mr H, its not unexpected 
to experience some waiting time when trying to reach a bank. Ultimately, it was Mr Hs 
decision not to continue with each call he disconnected which meant that he had to repeat 
the wait each time he called back.  
That said, I can see there were four days where Mr H spent in excess of 30 minutes on calls 
with Santander. Although on at least two of these days Mr H spoke to Santander, I think its 
likely he was waiting for majority of the time either to get through or then placed on hold 
while he was connected to the complaints department. I agree these wait times are lengthy 
and inappropriate.
I hope Santander take on board Mr Hs experience and make improvements to their call 
waiting times but Im unable to direct them on staffing levels as this doesnt fall within the 
remit of our service.
Mr H mitigated some of the impact on him with regards to call costs by using the help of a 
third party who called Santander and then directed the calls to Mr Hs phone. But I accept he 
had to also spend some of his own money on calls. And the wait times wouldve been 
frustrating and inconvenient for Mr H.
Santander have provided our service with a copy of the emails between them and Mr H but 
its unclear if these are all the emails between both parties.  Mr H has said that Santander 
didnt respond to some of his emails and based on the information Ive seen, it does appear 
that some of Mr Hs emails went unanswered. This no doubt caused Mr H annoyance and 
frustration. 
Ive taken into account the impact of the customer service issues on Mr H. Having done so, I 
dont think the impact was significant enough to warrant further compensation. Dealing with 
financial services isnt always hassle free and were all inconvenienced at times in day-to-
day life, and it isnt unusual to experience some frustration and annoyance. I also need to 
bear in mind that Mr H couldve done more to mitigate his circumstances.
All things considered, Im satisfied that the £200 Santander have already paid Mr H is fair 
and reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused by the customer 
service issues and for the call costs. So, I wont be asking Santander to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman