DRN-1552658
 
The complaint
Mr H says Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) irresponsibly 
lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan Money Boat provided to Mr H in April 2015. The 
loan was for £400 to be repaid in six instalments the highest being £107.84. Mr H struggled 
to repay his loan, but he did clear the balance outstanding through a repayment plan. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Hs complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
Money Boat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Money Boat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Money Boat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Money Boat was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Money Boat asked Mr H for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr H said his monthly income was £3,000 and his monthly expenditure was 
£800. I think these checks were proportionate and sufficient for Mr Hs first loan from Money 
Boat.
But, as our adjudicator explained, Money Boats credit check for the loan would most likely 
have shown that Mr H was having problems managing his finances. This is because when 
Mr H applied for his loan, he already had three short term loans outstanding with other 
lenders. And Money Boat would have seen these in the credit check it carried out. 
So I think Money Boat should have realised that Mr H would be unable to sustainably repay 
this loan. So I think Money Boat was wrong to approve it. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr H, I think Money Boat should:
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Money Boat to take off tax from this interest. Money 
Boat must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk) to pay Mr H compensation 
as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman