DRN-3958246
The complaint
Mr K complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited accepted liability on his 
behalf after he was involved in an accident with a third party driver.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. Id like to assure Mr K and AA that Ive carefully considered all the 
information we have on file relating to this case.
Mr K has a car insurance policy underwritten by AA. When he was involved in a collision with 
another car, AA accepted liability after discussions with the third party insurer.
Mr K believes he wasnt at fault for the accident in question. He says hes provided AA with 
evidence to demonstrate that he wasnt at fault  and that AA have not properly taken that 
evidence into account.
Mr K complained to AA about their liability decision and about poor customer service. He 
said he was on hold for long periods when he rang the AA and had trouble getting through to 
speak to them.
AA apologised for the poor customer service and said they were aware waiting times had 
been longer than theyd want  and theyd made changes to improve things. But they said 
their decision on liability was correct.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He wants AA to acknowledge 
they havent properly investigated liability in his case, accept he wasnt liable for the 
accident, refund any financial losses hes incurred, reinstate his no claims bonus and 
apologise for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think AA had done anything wrong.
Mr K disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks policy with AA has a section entitled General Conditions. Subsection 4 of which is 
headed Making a claim. Paragraph (b) of that subsection says:
The insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct in your name the 
negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim.
In short, AA are entitled to accept liability for an accident in Mr Ks name  and settle any 
claim - as they wish. They dont need Mr Ks permission or agreement in advance to do so.
That policy clause isnt inherently unfair or unreasonable. Its stated very clearly. It, or 
something like it, is included in all mainstream car insurance policies. It means that insurers 
are not compelled (at significant cost) to burden the court system with disputed liability cases 
simply because a policyholder wishes to dispute liability with little or no prospect of success.
Its not for us to provide legal advice to AA  or any other insurer  about the prospects of 
success if liability were to be disputed in any particular case. 
However, because our role is to ensure that customers are treated fairly and reasonably, we 
can take a view on whether AA have treated Mr K fairly and reasonably in this case in the 
way they made the decision not to dispute liability for the accident.
Wed take the view that in cases like this, the insurer should enable their policyholder to 
present any information or evidence they wished  and take that fully and properly into 
account when making their decision on liability.
I dont think Mr K would dispute that hes been able to provide his side of the story about the 
accident to AA. Hes provided them with long and very detailed descriptions of the 
circumstances surrounding the incident. And hes explained to them why he feels the third 
party was at fault.
If AA had completely ignored Mr Ks account and the evidence hes provided, Id likely 
conclude that theyd acted unfairly and unreasonably towards Mr K. And Id ask them to look 
again at their decision on liability, taking the evidence provided by Mr K into account.
However, I can see that AA responded to Mr K in detail on a number of occasions to explain 
to him why their liability decision would stand, despite the information and evidence hed 
provided. 
For example, AA provided a very detailed response to Mr K on 23 February 2022. This went 
through all of the arguments and evidence Mr K had presented to AA. And it explained why 
none of that had changed their view on liability.
It would be impossible to conclude, having read that response, that AA had either ignored, 
not taken into account, or misunderstood Mr Ks representations. Indeed, the response 
shows that AA had in fact read those representations very carefully, understood them, and 
provided a very clear and compelling set of counter-arguments to explain their decision.
Id ask Mr K to accept that theres a difference between ignoring or disregarding someones 
evidence or arguments and simply disagreeing with them. 
In this case, I think AA fully understand Mr Ks point of view. And I think theyve properly 
taken into account all of the information and evidence hes provided. But to put it very simply, 
they still dont agree with him. And as the policy terms quoted above make clear, in these 
circumstances, AA are entitled to determine liability and settle claims as they see fit. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Neil MarshallOmbudsman