The complaint
Mrs W brings a complaint about how Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has 
dealt with a claim on her life assurance policy, held jointly with her late husband Mr W. L&G 
says Mr W made a misrepresentation on the policy, meaning it could only make a 
proportional claims payment. To resolve the complaint, Mrs W wants the claim to be paid in 
full.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W applied for a life assurance policy with L&G on 26 November 2012 through a 
third party financial adviser. The policy was on a decreasing term basis, with an initial sum 
assured of £43,245 over a 10-year term.
The application was submitted to L&G on 10 December 2012 and because the policy was 
applied for through a third party, Mr and Mrs W were sent a copy of their answers to check 
and return to L&G. They did so on 14 December 2012. The policy came into force on 20 
December 2012.
As part of the policy application, Mr W told L&G that he had seen a medical professional 
within the last five years for raised blood pressure. In providing an answer to that question, 
Mr W was asked several additional questions about if he took medication, when he had last 
seen his doctor or a nurse about blood pressure and what reading was taken at the time.
Sadly, Mr W passed away in September 2019 after suffering from a heart attack. His cause 
of death was given as heart disease and artherosclerosis. Mrs W pursued a claim to L&G 
and it wrote to Mr Ws GP for more information.
In December 2019, L&G received a response from the GP. It told Mrs W that it could pay the 
claim, but at a lower value.
It understood that the reading Mr W had given on his application dated six months prior to 
the policy may have been the result from his home monitoring equipment. However, the 
application question clearly asked for his latest blood pressure reading when checked by his 
doctor or nurse and that was different.
Given that his last reading by a doctor or nurse was shortly before the policy began, L&G 
wouldve expected Mr W to declare that reading. If he had disclosed that, it wouldve 
charged a higher premium for the level of cover he and Mrs W had sought.
On that basis, L&G said that it was right to amend the sum assured now, given the insurance 
should have cost more from the outset. It paid Mrs W £10,691 of the policys sum assured, 
which had originally stood at the claims date at £17,757.
L&G said it accepted that Mr W hadnt intended to deceive it, as he had made the disclosure 
DRN-1924842about his blood pressure in the first place. But it said he should have told it about his actual 
blood pressure reading at the GP surgery and he ought to have checked his application to 
ensure he had given the right answer.
Mrs L complained. She reiterated that Mr Ws GP took no notice of his readings at the 
surgery because he suffered from White Coat Hypertension (White Coat Syndrome), 
meaning the readings taken at the surgery were unreliable. That is why Mr W had to take his 
own readings at home.
In January 2020, L&G issued a response to Mrs W in which it rejected the complaint. It said 
it had made the right decision in paying a proportionate claim payment to Mrs W because it 
was clear Mr W did not accurately disclose when his blood pressure was last checked by his 
GP and the relevant reading. Given the reading was taken just five days prior to Mr W 
obtaining a quotation for the policy on 26 November 2012, it believed there is no reason for 
him not to have recalled this information.
Further, though it noted that Mrs W had explained Mr W suffered from WCH, it still wouldve 
expected him to inform it of the reading and explain why it was different, such as being due 
to WCH.
L&G did accept that it could have dealt with the claims process more quickly than it did. 
Though it wasnt responsible for the initial delays from the GP, it did accept it took 11 
working days to process receipt of the medical evidence, which was outside its agreed 10 
working day turnaround time  and this required Mrs W to have to call L&G for an update. 
Because of this, it offered to pay her £100 for the upset it caused.
Mrs W brought her complaint to this service and noted that she hadnt seen Mr Ws medical 
records, but that he had told her he suffered from WCH.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She said she didnt think the 
complaint should succeed. That was because she agreed with L&G that Mr W had made a 
misrepresentation on his policy application. She felt that the question was clear and Mr W 
should have answered differently in respect of his blood pressure reading. That he did not do 
so allowed L&G to decide what it would have done in 2012  that is to apply a rating to the 
policy, which means it could pay a proportionate claim. She also noted that WCH was not 
recorded anywhere on Mr Ws medical records.
Mrs W disagreed. She said that following the logic that L&G would have done something 
different meant that his most recent blood pressure reading of 114/65 should be ignored and 
that cannot be right. Yet his GP accepts he was suffering from WCH  which is a recognised 
condition. This must be the case, because a reading of 175/97 is dangerous and despite 
this, the GP didnt make any changes to Mr Ws medication. That would have happened if 
the higher reading was genuine.
Mrs W said that Mr W did not change the reading given to L&G because as far as he was 
concerned, his home readings were his GP readings  his medication was prescribed based 
on that. Mrs W also wanted to point out that the fact Mr W had a heart attack was not related 
to his blood pressure  he had taken medication for ten years to regulate his blood pressure 
and told L&G during his application about his medication. As this was not contributory, there 
was a post mortem to establish why Mr W passed away. She wanted to note he had no 
greater risk of heart attack than any other policyholder.
Mrs W said she wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further, I do wish to pass my condolences to Mrs W. I can see she has been 
through a difficult time, and I recognise that.
I realise that my decision will not be what Mrs W has hoped for. However, I need to be fair to 
both parties in a complaint, and having looked at the information before me, I think L&G has 
behaved fairly in the circumstances of the claim by paying a proportionate claims payment. 
That means I wont be asking it to pay the balance of £7,066. Ill explain why I have reached 
that conclusion below.
When applying for insurance, if an applicant doesnt tell his or her insurer relevant 
information in response to a clear question its known as misrepresentation.
If the circumstances around a claim prompt an insurer to believe a misrepresentation may 
have occurred within an application, its entitled to consider what ought to have happened at 
that time. That is what L&G has done.
When it received the medical information to process Mrs Ws claim, it was prompted to 
review Mr Ws medical history as it related to blood pressure. This was because 
hypertension is related to the conditions listed on Mr Ws death certificate. I know Mrs W has 
explained that in the years since the policy application that Mr Ws blood pressure has been 
kept under control by medication but it does not alter that hypertension is linked to heart 
disease and atherosclerosis.
So I dont believe L&G acted unfairly on receipt of the information regarding Mr Ws death by 
sending a targeted report to the GP. The report was constrained to asking for evidence 
relevant to the two conditions. It didnt ask for his entire medical records and this was the 
correct approach. The guidance on misrepresentation issued by the Association of British 
Insurers (ABI) says that insurers should only ask for sufficient information needed to assess 
the claim.
So, it falls to me to look at what Mr W was asked, and determine if I think he made a 
misrepresentation or not.
When Mr and Mrs W completed the application with the third party adviser, Mr W was asked 
whether in the last five years he had seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for a 
number of blood conditions. Mr W rightly disclosed that he had, and selected raised blood 
pressure (hypertension) from a dropdown list of conditions.
This meant that a number of further subset questions were asked of Mr W. I shant repeat 
them in full here, but the questions included whether he was awaiting any other 
investigations, if he was being or had been seen at hospital, the amount of medication he 
took to control his hypertension (to which Mr W correctly disclosed two types) and if any 
other routine checks were awaited.
In addition, Mr W was asked (and answered):
 
Q - How long ago was your blood pressure last checked by your doctor or nurse?
A - 0 years 6 monthsQ - Do you know the result of your latest blood pressure check taken at your GP's 
surgery? [Blood pressure is measured by taking systolic pressure (this is the first 
reading) and diastolic pressure (the second reading). For example, it would be given 
as 140/90 or 140 over 90. We need you to tell us both figures.]
A  Yes
Q - Please tell us your latest blood pressure reading when checked by your doctor or 
nurse.
A - Systolic pressure: 114 Diastolic pressure: 65
Like L&G, I understand Mrs Ws explanation insofar as her husband suffering from WCH, 
given that he did not attend his GP after 2012 for a number of years despite having high 
readings taken at the surgery up to that date. I can see how Mrs W says this shows his GP 
was not unduly concerned and otherwise would have sent Mr W for further tests.
But, notwithstanding the absence of WCH on Mr Ws medical records, that he took his own 
readings that doesnt alter that I believe the above question was answered incorrectly in two 
places. In supplying a blood pressure reading taken at home, Mr W did not provide the 
correct response to what was put to him. L&G wanted to know his reading at a surgery, as 
carried out by a health professional. It was entitled to determine the questions asked, and 
the relevant guidance from the ABI on misrepresentation in consumer insurance contracts 
says that an applicant should answer any questions to the best of their knowledge and 
belief.
By Mr W giving a markedly different blood pressure reading, it meant that L&G assessed the 
risk of insuring him incorrectly, and it never came to learn of the difference between his own 
readings and those taken at his GP surgery.
In my view, the question put to Mr W was clear. His medical records show the last blood 
pressure reading taken at his GP surgery was 175/97 on 21 November 2012, five days 
before the policy application. Further readings within the last twelve months (in December 
2011 and May 2012) were 201/96 and 204/106 respectively. Given Mr W had diagnosed 
hypertension, I would expect him to be able to recall the reading given a matter of days 
beforehand, especially where it varied considerably from his own records. And, if he had 
then wanted to go on to explain to L&G that he had taken the reading himself due to WCH, 
he could have done so.
I say this because on the checking your details documentation that Mr W signed and 
returned to L&G on 14 December 2012 it said:
 
if your answers or any other statements made about your application are not correct, 
incomplete, or are out of date we can refuse any claim and cancel your policy or 
policies. In the event of a claim we may request a report from your doctor to support 
your application answers. Please tell us straight away if you need to change any of 
your answers before your policy starts. Please read the personal details document 
carefully.  
That form went on to provide a box of corrections, in which Mr W could have explained how 
he substituted his own blood pressure reading and the date of the reading for that of his GP. 
However, no corrections were made to the form despite the inaccurate answer.Mr T should have answered differently to the two questions above, given the reading hed 
had within the last month. Instead he declared a different reading from within the last six 
months. 
I therefore believe there was a misrepresentation. And once thats been established, 
relevant law on disclosure in consumer insurance contracts says that it should be classed as 
deliberate/reckless or otherwise as careless.
I appreciate the mitigating points Mrs W has put forward, and I accept Mr W did not intend to 
deceive L&G. But, for the reasons Ive set out, Mr W needed to show more care in 
answering the questions put to him, rather than substituting his own view for what was 
asked. I accept this was an oversight and not a case of Mr W acting recklessly. I therefore 
agree with L&G that the right categorisation for this is therefore careless.
In the event of careless misrepresentation, an insurer should consider a proportionate 
remedy. This means the outcome will depend on what the underwriting decision would have 
been had the misrepresentation not occurred at the time. If insurance could have been 
offered under different terms or for a different cost, an insurer can amend the contract to 
reflect this. If it could not have offered cover at all, the insurer can void the policy (for the 
policyholder who has misrepresented) and return the premiums he or she paid from the 
outset.
So, L&G hasnt had the opportunity to underwrite the policy in 2012 as it would have if it had 
known about Mr Ws correct circumstances. It is therefore fair and in accordance with the 
relevant law, guidance, and the policy terms for L&G to amend the policy proportionately 
now. That means I cant ask it to pay Mrs Ws claim in full, because L&G would not have 
been in a position to insure Mr W with the same terms.
L&Gs underwriters have confirmed how if it had been told about Mr Ws surgery blood 
pressure reading, it would have used this and not the two previous readings in the twelve 
months preceding the policy to work out the cost of the premium. Alternatively, if Mr W had 
told it about WCH, it would have written off to the GP for the medical records relating to 
blood pressure readings. Either way, it would have needed to see the reading of 21 
November 2012 and it is this reading upon which underwriting would take place by reference 
to the reading and Mr Ws age at the time of the application (because blood pressure 
thresholds broadly increase with age). That L&G would have used the GP reading and not 
Mr Ws home reading is a matter of risk for it to determine, as it is entitled to decide if it will 
offer insurance for defined risks, and on what terms. 
The code issued by the ABI regarding misrepresentation says that an insurer must apply a 
proportionate remedy in cases of misrepresentation and where the insurer would have 
offered the same cover but charged the customer a higher premium, the insurer will pay the 
claim in proportion to the premium that was actually charged. L&G has shown us its 
underwriting pages from 2012 and how a person with Mr Ws surgery reading and age would 
have a rating of +75 on the cost of the insurance premium because of the extra risk of 
providing insurance given the link of hypertension to life expectancy.
If L&G had known Mr Ws actual medical history in 2012 then Mr and Mrs W could have 
opted to pay an increased premium. However, it was not aware of Mr Ws surgery reading 
and so it follows that in reducing the claims payment proportionately to account for what Mr 
and Mrs Ws premium actually purchased, L&G has rightly followed the relevant law and 
guidance following a misrepresentation. It is not required to pay the full claim payment - the 
premiums paid by Mr and Mrs W since 2012 actually provided a lower amount of life cover when the +75 rating is applied to Mr W.
My final decision
Despite my sympathy for Mrs W, L&G hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably in paying her a 
proportionate claims payment given a misrepresentation took place in 2012. I cannot 
therefore ask it to make the full claims payment now.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and the 
estate of Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman