DRN-3289429
The complaint
Miss B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (Loans2Go) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from both parties, we know that Miss B was approved for one loan on 
6September 2019 for a capital sum of £1,500 repayable over 18 months at £342.83 each. 
Miss B received the capital in September 2019 and made no payments at all until 5 March 
2020 when a large payment of £2,056.98 was paid. My understanding is that the loan 
remains outstanding.
Miss B has pointed out to Loans2Go and to the Financial Ombudsman Service that she had 
just taken a £5,000 loan in July 2019 and had taken a £4,000 loan in March 2019, was in 
deep in her overdraft and had credit cards close to, or at, their maximum limits. Miss B says 
that had Loans2Go carried out proper checks it would not have lent to her. 
Loans2Go received Miss Bs complaint in in July 2021 and issued its final response to that 
complaint. It explained the procedures it had done before lending. It said that as Miss B had 
declared to it her income and it had carried out checks such as a credit search and an 
income check, and then used her declared expenditure it looked affordable to her. It did not 
consider it had lent irresponsibly and it offered as a good will gesture a 30% reduction on the 
interest due on the loan. Later, on 3 August 2021, Loans2Go, still without admitting liability, 
increased that offer to a 50% interest reduction. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that the loan ought not to 
have been lent to Miss B. Our adjudicators view was that using the figures for income, 
expenditure, and credit commitments about which Loans2Go knew, those would have left 
Miss B with too little left over each month after paying the Loans2Go loan. 
Loans2Go did not agree. It said that 
Upon reviewing our calculations made, [Miss B] had a disposable income of £240.10 
after considering the payment made to Loans2Go. 
Looking at the customers credit file there is no record of any arrears, defaults or 
CCJs at the point of application, therefore, I am unable to agree the customers credit 
file shows she had been struggling.
CCJ is a reference to County Court Judgments. The unresolved complaint was passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether Loans2Go completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss 
B would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Miss B wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Loans2Go did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B and 
that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Loans2Go to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Bs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans2Go had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for 
Miss B. In practice this meant that Loans2Go had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss B undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans2Go to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B was a new customer to Loans2Go but as the loan was for 18 months and required 
substantial monthly repayments of over £340, Id expect Loans2Go to have carried out a 
comprehensive check of Miss Bs financial situation before lending. It may have done checks 
but a large part of the responsibility is ensuring that the data is read correctly. 
My first concern is that Loans2Go had a record that she was self-employed and had been for 
some years. Miss B had declared that she earned around £2,400 a month and the search 
Loans2Go did to verify that income led it to think she had a regular income of around £1,831. Immediately there were two elements requiring further research before proceeding in my 
view  the self-employment and the figures. 
One set of records Ive got from Loans2Go suggests to me that it used the £2,400 a month 
as Miss Bs income in September 2019 and appears not to have checked about Miss Bs 
self-employment. Usually Id expect some confirmation of drawings and as these can 
fluctuate for a self employed individual then that, in my view, would have been an important 
element. I dont think it did that. 
Loans2Go seemed to be saying in its final response letter that it used the lower figure of 
£1,831, and it added a 10% margin figure to Miss Bs declared expenditure. And so that left 
her with enough. 
Our adjudicator  carried out the calculations using the lower income figure and did not think 
Miss B had enough. I have checked with Miss B that her income figure were drawings of 
£1,800 a month. 
Using the information Loans2Go used then it seems that her expenditure was around £1,248 
and this does appear to include the repayments for the two larger earlier loans Miss B has 
mentioned. These loans and the repayments for them appeared on the credit search 
Loans2Go carried out before lending. It said it added a 10% buffer and so that would have 
taken the expenditure figure to around £1,372. The repayments for the Loans2Go loan were 
around £342 each month which means Miss Bs total expenditure on its own calculations 
comes to £1,714. And that leaves Miss B £86 in a month on Miss Bs drawings figure of 
£1,800 and it is £117 on the £1,831 Loans2Go said it verified as her minimum income figure.
Either way I think that for an 18 month period that is too narrow a margin, even allowing for 
its own 10% margin. And I say that because Loans2Go was aware of the other credit 
commitments which were not low and for lengthy periods as well as this new loan it was 
approving for her.
And the issue with drawings from self-employment is that these can vary and fluctuate and 
so all it would have taken was for a relatively small fluctuation for Miss B to be unable to 
afford the loan.
And another element is just what Miss B has said  that she had taken £9,000 in credit in the 
few months before applying to it for a £1,500 loan and so I think that ought to have acted as 
an alert to Loans2Go to determine exactly why Miss B needed additional credit a month after 
the £5,000 loan taken with another lender in July 2019. 
All in all, I think that the loan was borderline affordable and for an 18 month loan with 
reliance on self-employed drawings, this was too close and not sustainable. I uphold 
Miss Bs complaint.  
Putting things right
Miss B has had the capital payment in respect of the loan, so its fair that she should repay 
this. So far as the loan is concerned, I think Loans2Go should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan; and
treat any payments made by Miss B as payments towards the capital amount of 
£1,500; and
if Miss B has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* 
simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; and if the payments Miss B has made so far does not cover the £1,500 capital, then Loans2Go 
is reminded to approach the debt in a sympathetic manner; and
remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans2Go to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint and I direct that Loans2Go Limited does 
as I have set out in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman