The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited (Quickly Finance) failed to progress her 
payment protection insurance (PPI) claims, despite telling her they had. 
What happened
Mrs M contacted Quickly Finance around November 2018 asking them to look into potential 
PPI claims. Mrs M asked for an update in January and March 2019 and was told that that 
Quickly Finance were waiting for a response from the lenders. 
Mrs M contacted Quickly Finance for another update in May 2019. She was told that thered 
been a mistake; Mrs Ms details hadnt been added to the database, and her claims hadnt 
been sent to the lenders. Mrs M was sent new claims pack to sign and return if she still 
wanted Quickly Finance to act for her. 
Mrs M complained to Quickly Finance about their failure to progress her claims, and giving 
her incorrect information. Quickly Finance responded to this in July, apologising for what had 
happened, and confirming that new claims packs had been sent out.  
Mrs M wasnt happy with this response; saying that shed lost out on the chance to have her 
claims looked at. Mrs M brought her complaint to this service for investigation in July 2019.
The investigator found that Quickly Finance shouldve done more to make sure Mrs Ms 
claims were sent to the lenders when she first returned completed claim packs, and the 
communication about this was poor. The investigator also found that Quickly Finance did 
enough to put things right by asking Mrs M to complete new packs, and apologising for what 
had happened. The investigator recommended £75 as compensation for what went wrong. 
The investigator didnt think Quickly Finance should offer compensation for Mrs M missing 
the PPI deadline she didnt think it would be fair to hold Quickly Finance responsible for this.
Mrs M disagreed with this view saying that Quickly Finance had been negligent. Mrs M 
asked for an ombudsman to decide on her complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Mrs M. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, and I wont be asking Quickly Finance do anything 
more. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs M, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.   
DRN-1133080Its not disputed that Quickly Finance made errors in their handling of Mrs Ms claims. They 
didnt send the claims to the lenders when they shouldve, and told Mrs M that theyd done 
this when they hadnt. 
Mrs M feels strongly that she missed out on the opportunity to refer her PPI claims to her 
lenders, because the deadline for this was 29 August 2019. I agree that Quickly Finance 
were responsible for not progressing the claims as they shouldve done. But when they 
found out what had happened, they offered Mrs M the chance to still have her claims looked 
at, by completing new claim forms. Mrs M says she didnt receive these forms. 
Quickly Finance have sent a copy of the letter sent to Mrs M in May 2019. Ive also seen that 
the complaint response letter sent in July also confirmed additional forms had been sent. So 
I think its fair to say that the option for Quickly Finance to act for Mrs M was made clear 
before the PPI deadline. I cant see that Mrs M contacted Quickly Finance to act for her. So I 
dont think it would be fair to hold Quickly Finance responsible for Mrs M missing out on the 
chance to send PPI claims to her lenders. 
Although Quickly Finance couldve handled Mrs Ms claims better, I think the £75 
recommended by the investigator is fair compensation for failings in the process. I 
appreciate Mrs M feels frustrated that shes lost out on the chance to have her PPI claims 
considered. But I dont think it would be reasonable to say that this is because of something 
Quickly Finance did or shouldve done. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Quickly Finance should pay Mrs M £75 in recognition of the shock and upset caused to her 
by their handling of her PPI claims
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman