DRN-2848614
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount he was charged for a service on a car he acquired from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS). 
 
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr C under a hire agreement with VFS in June 2019.  He said 
under the agreement he was required to have the car serviced at an approved dealership. 
Mr C said he contacted multiple dealerships who all stated that as it was a lease car he had 
to pay a fixed price of £500 for an oil change. He said the dealerships were unwilling to 
provide him with a breakdown of the £500. In the past he said hed had cars serviced at 
similar approved dealerships and an oil change had cost under £300 for the exact same size 
engine car. Mr C complained to VFS. 
 
In its final response VFS said it requires the services to be completed by its authorised 
dealers. It went on to say that Mr Cs contract states his agreement to make sure the vehicle 
is serviced and maintained strictly in line with the manufacturers recommendations and that 
scheduled servicing and necessary maintenance is carried out only by authorised dealers. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. He explained his concerns about VFS using the 
fixed price service as a way of extracting extra money from its customers, especially when 
other items such as excess mileage costs are clearly defined. Mr C said VFS did not 
address his actual complaint in its final response. 
Our investigator didnt think VFS had acted unfairly. She said the dealership and VFS are 
separate entities and VFS has no say over how much a garage might charge for services. 
Mr C remained unhappy. He made several comments which I have responded to below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but having done so I wont be asking 
VFS to do anything further. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement Mr C signed. It says:
Ensure the vehicle is serviced in accordance with the manufacturers recommended 
intervals by a manufacturers dealership.
Mr C is unhappy with this. He said the finance agreement was mis-sold or misdescribed to 
him. Hes concerned about the lack of transparency and hidden costs in the agreement and 
that he wasnt given a breakdown of the cost of the service. He said the fixed price he was 
charged for the oil change was a way of extracting extra money and previously he has paid 
less for the same service. Im not disputing Mr C when he says hes previously paid less. But 
Im not able to compare with a previous car or hire agreement.
Its a requirement of the agreement for Mr C to have the car serviced at an approved 
dealership. This is explicit in the contract. So, while I accept that the specific cost of the 
service is not outlined in the agreement, I dont agree that its a hidden cost. Mr C is aware 
the car will need to be maintained and serviced. There is a reasonable expectation that such 
maintenance and service would come at a cost. I can see Mr C was given the cost of the 
service and maintenance plan which he opted out of. I wouldnt expect VFS itself to set the 
itemised prices for the individual aspects of maintenance and servicing. These would be the 
responsibility of the dealership and/or dealership network. Ive looked at the dealership 
website and I can see a range of pricing options for service and maintenance, not just the 
one fixed price servicing Mr C has mentioned.
Mr C has said that while these costs are hidden, VFS is transparent about costs associated 
with charges when returning the car. In a hire agreement the vehicle remains the property of 
the finance provider, in this case VFS. So, it can determine what charges it would put to its 
own customers when a vehicle is returned. It sets these charges in accordance with the 
industry trade body that issues guidelines on fair wear and tear versus chargeable damage. 
In the case of service and maintenance these are not charges VFS puts to its own 
customers. These are charges the dealership puts to the customer. I understand Mr Cs 
frustration that these charges seem higher than he has previously paid, but this is not 
something I can hold VFS responsible for. 
In response to the investigators view Mr C complained that the finance agreement was 
unaffordable or that he wasnt treated fairly when he was in financial difficulties. He said the 
cost of the contract was specified as a deposit of £5,820 plus 23 monthly rental payments of 
£214. He said a hidden service cost of £500 increased the contract by 5%. I am not able to 
look at the affordability of the finance agreement or whether Mr C was treated fairly when he 
was in financial difficulties within the scope of this complaint. These are new complaint 
points and Mr C would need to raise them with VFS first in order to give it the chance to 
investigate and respond. As mentioned above I dont believe the service costs are hidden. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman