DRN-2468746
The complaint
Mr L complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Ltd (LVFS) has not clearly 
answered his questions since around 2017 about his payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy which was taken out in connection with his mortgage.
What happened
Mr L complained to this Service that LVFS had not answered his questions about whether 
his mortgage PPI would still cover him even though he changed his employment status from 
employed to self-employed. He says he has been asking LVFS these questions since 2017.
Mr L bought a mortgage PPI policy in 2004. He says he bought it when he was employed 
and wanted it to cover him if he was made redundant.
He changed his employment status from employed to self-employed around four years ago. 
He was continuing to pay for the PPI at a rate of around £900 per year, so he wanted to 
know if the policy would still cover him if he were unemployed due to losing a main contract. 
If it didnt cover him, then he wanted his PPI premiums to be returned.
He asked his independent financial adviser to ask LVFS these questions on his behalf in 
September 2019. LVFS responded to the questions in the same month and it sent him a 
copy of the policy terms and conditions. The terms and conditions set out when it will pay an 
insurance claim and it sets out when a person is eligible to make a claim.
LVFS also responded to Mr Ls questions. Mr L complained to this Service on 3 March 2020, 
and it seems that since that date, LVFS has been responding to Mr Ls questions. In its final 
response letter, it said Mr L was still eligible for the PPI policy, even though the claims 
process will have changed now that he is self-employed instead of employed. It highlighted 
the policy terms and conditions which Mr L should consider. And it apologised for his 
frustration at being told he may not get all the answers he wants until he made a claim.
 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and rejected the complaint because he thought LVFS 
had given as much information as it could which was clear, fair and not misleading for Mr L 
and his financial adviser to make a decision about the policy. Our adjudicator also thought 
that as LVFS was the policy administrator, then he would not expect it to give Mr L personal 
insurance advice as to whether the policy was still suitable for him.
Mr L disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
He added the following points:
No-one has explained if he can still get cover if his company is made bankrupt, 
insolvent or liquidated;
No-one has advised if he should continue to pay for the policy;
No-one has advised which policy is correct for him;
If his current contract as a self-employed person on a 12-month contract is 
terminated, where should he look in the policy terms and conditions to determine 
whether he would be eligible for cover or not? 
He wants his last four years premiums refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided that I am not going to uphold this complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result for Mr L, so I will explain why.
Firstly I should point out that this Service only looks at complaints about financial services 
and provides alternative dispute resolution in respect of those complaints; it does not give 
advice to consumers about what they should or shouldnt do. Instead, it remains impartial 
between all parties.
As Mr L is aware, he can speak to an independent financial adviser (which he has done) or 
he can seek independent legal advice for specific advice about whether he should keep or 
cancel his PPI policy  but this Service will not be able to advise him about that.
In this case, I can see that Mr L did engage a financial adviser who did ask LVFS questions 
on Mr Ls behalf about his PPI policy. I can also see from LVFSs responses that it did try to 
answer all of Mr Ls questions, it gave him a copy of the policy terms and conditions and 
cited in its letters the clauses which he should look at to determine if he should keep or 
cancel his PPI policy. I also think that as LVFS was the policy administrator, I would not 
expect it to be giving Mr L advice about the continuing suitability of his policy. So I dont think 
it did anything wrong here.
In respect of LVFSs actions in this case, I think LVFS has answered Mr Ls questions about 
the policy and Mr L had access to his financial adviser to help him consider his options. So 
as I do not think LVFS has done anything wrong, I am not going to uphold the complaint.
 
I can see that Mr L recently told us again that he wanted advice about the suitability of his 
PPI policy, whether he should continue to pay for it and that no-one has yet advised whether 
the policy will still cover him in certain circumstances or whether it is the correct one for him. 
If that is still the case, then he should speak to his independent financial adviser, the Citizens 
Advice Bureau, or he can seek independent legal advice. But as an impartial Service, we will 
not be able to give him the advice he has requested.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman