DRN-2883253
The complaint
Mrs K complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) who declined her claim, under her 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mrs K contacted IPA and reported a leak in her property. An engineer attended but couldnt 
see the leak. A few days later an approved engineer attended and agreed that there was a 
leak, but said it was coming from the boilers expansion pipe, so a heating engineer was 
required.
A combination valve was replaced under Mrs Ks policy and some piping was altered. But 
the pipe alteration work was paid for privately by Mrs K. For a while there were no issues. 
But in the autumn, Mrs K reported another leak. 
IPA sent another engineer who Mrs K said told her that a valve needed to be replaced. Mrs 
K thought that this was the same valve as before and this valve had now become faulty after 
around two months. Mrs K said she was told that another engineer would attend to complete 
the repair. But after she hadnt heard from IPA for a while, she contacted them again. 
Mrs K was told that because a cylinder in a temperature pressure relief valve (TPRV) hadnt 
been appropriately serviced, the repair wouldnt be covered. But Mrs K told IPA that the last 
service was carried out 13 months before and the second leak that had happened was a 
continuation of the leak that she had had earlier. And as the boiler had recently been 
serviced, this new leak should be covered under her policy.
During this time, as the hot water cylinder was still under the manufacturers warranty, Mrs K 
contacted the manufacturer to have a look. Their engineer found that the pressure gauge 
was low but couldnt carry out the repair as he wasnt permitted to. He advised Mrs K to 
contact IPA to complete the repair.  But left the part she required with her. 
IPA sent another engineer who identified that the TPRV had failed. He said that it shouldve 
been serviced annually, which hadnt been done here. So, as the TPRV failed due to the 
lack of service, this wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mrs K raised a complaint with IPA, as she felt that the second leak was a continuation of the 
first and that the cylinder had been last serviced about 13 months earlier. So, it should be 
covered under the policy. 
In its final response IPA recognised that there had been some poor customer service issues 
and offered £150 towards the cost of Mrs K getting the work covered privately. But Mrs K 
wasnt happy about this as she said that quotes that she had obtained, were around £400. 
She also said that her policy didnt specify that the TPRV had to be serviced separately and 
even if it did, her original claim had been made within the servicing period. So, she wanted 
IPA to pay her the full cost of getting the work done and referred her complaint to our 
service. 
One of our investigators considered her complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that IPA had 
fairly declined Mrs Ks claim due to the TPRV not being regularly serviced. She said that the 
valve from the second leak wasnt the same as that from the first leak. She concluded that 
IPA had been reasonable in its offer of £150 for the customer service issues in not telling 
Mrs K the outcome of her claim sooner. So, there was nothing further she could reasonably 
ask them to do.
Mrs K didnt accept our investigators view.  She maintained that the second leak was a 
continuation of the first and that the issue of the lack of service wasnt relevant, as the fault 
was consistent and fell within the service period. So, she asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I appreciate this isn't the outcome 
Mrs K would be hoping for. But I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
The main issues of this complaint are: 
Whether the lack of service of the cylinder was relevant to the claim.
Whether the first leak was a continuation of the second.
Mrs K said that the lack of service of the cylinder wasnt relevant to the claim as there was 
no obligation contained in the policy to service it. I have considered the terms and conditions 
of the policy to see whether IPA had failed to tell Mrs K that the TPRV needed regular 
servicing and whether there was an obligation for the cylinder to be regularly serviced. 
In the general exclusion section of the policy, it said that it doesnt cover: 
systems/equipment/appliances that have not been installed, serviced or maintained
regularly according to British Standards and/or manufacturers instructions
This is supported by the manufacturer instructions that indicate that servicing of the valve 
should be carried out on a regular basis: 
Unvented hot water systems have a continuing maintenance requirement in order to
ensure safe working and optimum performance. It is essential that the relief valve(s)
are periodically inspected and manually opened to ensure no blockage has occurred
in the valves or discharge pipework Failure to do so could invalidate the warranty.
I have thought about what this means, and I think it means that IPA would have to be 
satisfied that the TPRV had been regularly maintained. 
I have looked at the service history to see if Mrs K had maintained the TPRV. From those 
records, it seems that the valve hadnt been serviced since it was purchased. Which given 
the general exclusion, would mean that it wouldnt be covered under the policy terms as 
there is no evidence to support that it had been regularly maintained.I also asked Mrs K if she had any other evidence that was contrary to this. None was 
provided. So, I am satisfied that Mrs K hadnt regularly maintained the valve as she was 
required to do, and I dont think IPA was unreasonable to decline her claim for this reason.
I have next considered whether the first leak was a continuation of the second leak, as Mrs K 
said that they were and that IPA failed to complete the first repair correctly.
I have reviewed the engineers reports. In it, it confirmed that the valve that was changed 
due to the first leak, was a combustion valve, which I am told does not form part of the 
cylinder. The valve that failed in the second leak, was the TPRV which I am told is part of the 
cylinder. 
The engineers advised that the two valves are separate, and the second leak was as a 
result of the cylinders failure, which IPA said was due to the lack of maintenance of the unit. 
Mrs K was asked to provide evidence in support of her view that the first leak was a 
continuation of the second and that IPA had failed to correctly repair the first leak. She 
provided a report from an engineer. The report concluded that: The parts required to rectify 
the overflow pressure problem is to replace T&P valve, pressure relief valve, and re-charge 
the internal baffle. The current position of the cylinder is to close to the wall in the airing 
cupboard. To replace the valve, the complete drain down is required along with re-position 
the cylinder. 
I asked IPA to comment on the report. It said that Mrs Ks conclusion in her complaint was 
inaccurate, claiming that the valve replaced and covered by the insurance was the same 
valve that failed, which was not covered due to lack of service. This is not correct the first 
valve was a combination valve which is external to the cylinder. The second valve that failed
was a TPRV which is part of the cylinder, the manufacturers instructions specify that it is 
essential that the TPRV is inspected upon service and manually opened to ensure no 
blockages are occurring as failure to do so can result in failure which is what had happened.
Mrs K has provided no evidence that the valve was serviced in accordance with the 
manufacturers instructions nor the terms and conditions of the policy. In addition, IPA said 
that the first valve that had originally failed was different to the second valve (that hadnt 
been regularly serviced). So, in the circumstances, I cant conclude that IPA was 
unreasonable to decline her claim. 
In addition, IPA recognised that there were poor customer service issues, given the delay in 
not telling Mrs K the outcome of her claim sooner. For this it offered and paid £150 for the 
trouble and upset it caused.  I am satisfied that the level of compensation paid, was fair and 
in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already made the offer. So, I wont be 
recommending any further compensation. 
Overall, I dont think there is enough evidence to support Mrs Ks complaint that IPA failed to 
correctly fix the first leak or that the second leak was a continuation of the first. I think that 
IPA fairly declined Mrs Ks claim for the reasons outlined. And I think that the £150 paid for 
the poor customer service was fair in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking IPA to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA has already paid £150 for the trouble 
and upset it caused and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman