DRN-2886526
The complaint
Miss R complains about six loans that she took out with Lloyds Bank PLC. She says that the
loans were unaffordable and that she didnt understand what she was taking out.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 2 June 2021. I wanted to give both parties 
the chance to respond before coming to my final decision. Both parties have now responded 
and so Im in a position to issue my final decision on Miss Rs complaint.
I have copied my provisional decision below, it also forms part of this final decision.
Miss R took out a total of six loans with Lloyds between 2003 and 2008. Miss R complains
that these loans were unaffordable to her and caused her to get into financial difficulty.
Miss R is being represented by Mrs T. Mrs T tells us that Miss R lacks the capacity to
understand what she was agreeing to when she took out the loans. Mrs T has given us a lot
of information about Miss Rs circumstances  and this has been supported by medical
evidence. The information confirms that Miss R has a learning disability and provides further
information on the daily struggles Miss R faces. Mrs T tells us that Miss R doesnt
understand her finances, the value of money and other such financial matters. She also
struggles to carry out other basic day to day tasks. Lloyds is now aware of Miss Rs situation.
Mrs T says that because of the difficulties Miss R had in understanding her financial affairs,
Lloyds shouldnt have sold these loans to Miss R. Mrs T tells us that the monthly loan
repayments and increased borrowing led Miss R to financial difficulties.
Lloyds disagreed with Miss R that the loans were unaffordable. It said that it didnt know
Miss R had a learning disability. But it thought that it had lent responsibly to Miss R  and so
it didnt uphold her complaint.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss R and he thought that loans three to six were
unaffordable for Miss R. And that Lloyds should refund the interest and charges on these
loans to put things right for her.
Lloyds didnt agree. Essentially it said that Miss R had enough disposable income to be able
to afford all loans. And so, it hadnt done anything wrong in lending to her. It also says that
loans three to six were consolidation loans and so it decreased the monthly repayment
amount for Miss R.
Because Lloyds didnt agree, this complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on
the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Miss Rs complaint in part. And Ill explain my reasons for
doing so below.
Given how long ago these loans were taken out (the last of which was 2008), there isnt
much information available from when they were sold. For example, Lloyds has limited notes
about the conversations that took place, it doesnt have any application information, or
information to show how it checked that Miss R could afford the loans. This isnt surprising or
unusual. And I dont draw anything negative from Lloyds not having this information  I
wouldnt have expected it to keep hold of it for all this time.
On the other hand, Miss Rs recollections of what happened at the time have also
diminished. She doesnt remember much about how she was spending her money at the
time and what other loans and credit cards she had. Again, this is completely
understandable, I wouldnt expect someone to know this after all this time. Especially given
what Ive read from the medical notes relating to Miss R and her ability to retain information.
The lack of information available does make it difficult to have a clear picture as to what
happened. And so, where there is minimal or missing information, I will base my decision on
what I think is more likely than not.
Back when these loans were wold to Miss R, the expectation was on the lender, Lloyds in
this case, not to lend to a consumer if it feels the credit is unaffordable.
Lloyds no longer has any information to show me what checks it carried out before it made
the decision to lend to Miss R. But based on what Ive seen so far, I think it likely that some
of the checks it undertook werent sufficient enough for it to be able to reasonably feel Miss
R was able to repay the loans without difficulty.
To keep things simple, Ill look at each loan separately.
Loan 1
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement dated and signed 1 December 2003. The loan
amount was for £1000 with a monthly repayment amount of £98.94 over the course of a 12
month period.
Lloyds has sent me a copy of the loan statement. This shows that each monthly repayment
for the loan was made on time until the loan was fully repaid on 15 November 2004.
Ive then gone on to look a Miss Rs bank statements prior to when she took out this loan.
There isnt anything on the bank statements that suggests to me that Miss R was in any
financial difficulties at this point. Given that this loan was for a relatively low amount, I dont
think it was wrong of Lloyds to agree to lend to her on this occasion.
Loan 2
This loan was taken out on 13 July 2004. The loan was for £2000 which was made up of
£1500 cash loan to Miss R and £500 to repay existing credit with Lloyds. The monthly
repayment amount for the loan was £92.64 (inclusive of loan protection insurance), to be
repaid over a term of 30 months.
The £500 element of the loan to repay existing debts appears to have been used to repay
some existing lending Miss R had with Lloyds. This is evident from the loan agreement and
that Miss R was almost £500 into an overdraft facility at the time the loan was drawn down.
So, it seems that the additional £500 was to repay that overdraft.The month before the loan was drawn down, June 2004, its clear that Miss R started to use
the overdraft facility more, which would indicate a possible deterioration in Miss Rs financial
position. It also suggests that she could have been struggling to meet her normal living
expenses at this time. Her financial position wouldnt have been helped by Lloyds agreeing
to lend to her again, and while she was still paying off the first loan.
While it isnt immediately obvious that the loan was unaffordable for her  there is some
limited evidence to suggest that it was  for example, she was using her overdraft facility,
she already had a loan with Lloyds she hadnt yet repaid (and that ran alongside this loan),
and the majority of the loan appears to have been used for day to day living expenses. All of
which is information that was available to Lloyds at the time they lent this loan to her  and is
information Id have expected them to take into account. But at this stage, there werent
many signs of financial difficulty elsewhere, and so I dont think Ive seen enough information
to persuade me that it was unfair for Lloyds to lend to Miss R on this occasion.
Loan 3
In May 2005, Lloyds agreed to lend to Miss R again, and offered her a loan of £5800. This
was a substantial increase on the amounts advanced previously and the monthly repayment
for the loan was £166.28 (inclusive of loan protection insurance)  over a period of 60
months.
Lloyds has been able to provide me with some notes from the time of the application for this
loan. These notes say that the loan was going to be used to repay the existing loan with
Lloyds (loan 2), repay a Lloyds credit card, a credit card provided by a different lender and a
store card. The notes suggest that the loan was agreed so that Miss R could reduce her
monthly outgoings. So its clear that as well as there being a significant increase in what was
being lent at this time, Miss R also owed significantly more than what she did at the time she
applied for loans 1 and 2.
Lloyds has provided this service with information about what it thinks her income was at the
time  and what was leaving her account regularly. Its said that based on the bank
statements it has seen, Miss R was getting around £618 a month and there were direct
debits leaving the account of £115 a month. Lloyds say that this would have left Miss R with
£337 a month (after the loan repayment) to pay for all other living expenses.
But Lloyds calculations dont include any of the cash withdrawals leaving the account that
were being used to pay for rent, utilities and other living expenses. While I dont have the
exact figures of how much Miss R was paying for these things, I think it likely to be much
more than the £337 Lloyds thinks was left over. So at the moment, I dont see how Lloyds
can reasonably have felt that this loan was affordable to Miss R  given her increasing debt
burden and shed be left with only £337 a month to meet all of her monthly living costs and
expenses.
While I appreciate Lloyds had tried to reduce Miss Rs monthly outgoings, it doesnt appear
to me that Lloyds did much to prevent her getting into more debt. Miss R did have other
open accounts with Lloyds  like an overdraft and a credit card, so to avoid Miss R getting
into further debt, it could have stipulated that this lending would only be agreed if Miss R
closed the other lending facilities she had. But it didnt do this, which as youll see later got
Miss R into further problems financially.
Later, in October 2005, notes on Miss Rs account suggest that she came into difficulties
again  and this is also evidenced by her bank statements  showing that she was
constantly in her overdraft. The notes provided by Lloyds suggest Miss R wanted to take out
a £9,000 loan to clear all the debt she had. The notes go on to say that this would be agreedif Miss R didnt use her credit card that month and didnt increase her overdraft. The notes
say Miss R had also taken out a different loan with a different lender. Lloyds later declined to
lend to her on this occasion  the notes suggest this was because Miss R was using her
credit card to take out cash, which is generally accepted by the industry as being an
indication that a customer may be experiencing financial difficulty. So, it seems to me that
Lloyds itself already had some concerns over Miss Rs financial position.
Loan 4
In November 2006, Lloyds agreed to lend Miss R £13,000, more than double the amount it
lent to her 18 months prior. The monthly repayments for this loan were £397.18 (inclusive of
loan protection insurance) over a period of 60 months. Notes from the time the loan was
provided suggest that this monthly repayment would save Miss R around £150 a month.
The notes also say that the Lloyds credit card and overdraft facility would be removed.
Lloyds say at this time; Miss R was getting around £885 a month and there were direct
debits leaving the account of £136 a month. Lloyds say that this would have left Miss R with
£352 a month (after the loan repayment) to pay for all other living expenses.
Again, Lloyds calculations dont include payments for rent, utilities and living expenses. So I
dont currently think that Lloyds could have reasonably felt that this loan was affordable for
Miss R for the same reasons I did loan 3.
In addition to what Ive said above, and based on the information Ive seen, not much had
changed from October 2005 when Lloyds declined to lend to Miss R. So its unclear why it
thought the loan in November 2006 was affordable when it felt Miss R would be unable to
repay substantially less just over a year before.
Loan 5
In March 2007, around four months after loan 4 was provided, Lloyds agreed to lend Miss R
£15,500, so an additional £2500. The monthly repayments would be £319.70 (inclusive of
loan protection insurance) over a period of 84 months.
Miss Rs average monthly income at the time was £837 and her average direct debit
amounted to £58. Lloyds say Miss R would have been left with around £460 a month after
the repayment for this loan. Again, Lloyds calculation doesnt take into account any of Miss
Rs day to day living expenses, which I think in reality would have amounted to more than
£460.
Notes from the time suggest that the funds would repay the outstanding balance on loan 5
and pay off more additional lending Miss R had taken out. The notes state that Lloyds
wouldnt lend to Miss R for another 12 months. I think Lloyds notes here show that it had
concerns over the amount and frequency that Miss R was borrowing money  and yet it
agreed to lend to her on this occasion anyway. Miss Rs indebtedness was getting worse
and had been for some time. She was continuing to utilise credit facilities elsewhere, and yet
Lloyds still continued to lend to her despite the rather large increase in her overall
indebtedness.
Loan 6
In June 2008, Lloyds again agreed to lend to Miss R, this time it agreed a loan of 
£14,685.95. The monthly repayments were £267.54 over a period of 70 months.
At the time, Lloyds say her average monthly income was £840 and direct debits totalled £86.This would have left Miss R with around £486 a month. Again, this figure doesnt include
payments for rent, bills and general living expenses.
While Lloyds might say here that it lent a lesser amount to Miss R on better terms  for
example the loan term and monthly repayment amount had reduced from loan 5 to loan 6  I
dont think that Lloyds could reasonably have felt that Miss R would be able to make these
repayments. All it meant was that the monthly repayments on this loan were less
unaffordable than the repayments on previous ones.
Conclusions
Ive gone into little detail about the later loans, this is deliberate, as I think its clear to see
from loan 3 onwards that Miss R was in difficulty and was borrowing because she was
finding it difficult to repay the money she had already been lent. The additional loans after
this only added to the problem.
I dont know what checks Lloyds carried out before it lent to Miss R, but given what Ive said
above and what it ought to have been aware of given the information it had Im not
persuaded that it can reasonably have felt Miss R would have been able to repay loans 3 to
6.
More recently, when Lloyds had done its own calculations as to what it thought Miss Rs
financial position was, the amount Lloyds referred to as Miss Rs disposable income, didnt
take into account her actual monthly living costs and expenses and left far too little to
reasonably conclude that she had enough to meet these commitments. Im also concerned
that Lloyds appears to have no concerns that these loans were accounting for a significant
portion of Miss Rs low monthly income.
Had it taken this into account, I think it would have found that Miss Rs financial position was
much worse. And it doesnt surprise me, that as a consequence of Lloyds continuing to lend
unaffordable amounts to Miss R, that she had to rely on other credit to pay for everyday
expenses.
I find Lloyds comments about the affordability of these loans concerning. It has relied on the
fact that Miss R didnt miss repayments to evidence that the loans were affordable. This, in
my opinion, isnt right. Miss R was using credit cards and getting herself into more debt to
repay these loans  so while she might have been keeping up with the repayments, it seems
to me that she was doing so by using different types of credit to pay for other expenses. And
it completely ignores that Miss Rs repayment of earlier loans was in large part dependent on
her having been provided with the later ones.
While I appreciate that its hard to know exactly where Miss Rs money was being spent, I
think what is clear is that Miss R couldnt maintain these loan repayments with the income
she was getting. Mrs T has told this service that Miss R often complained of having no
money  and not enough money to even feed herself. And this isnt surprising given the low
amounts of monthly income left in Lloyds own retrospective calculations. And its clear that
repaying them had a significant and detrimental impact on her financial position.
Lloyds has also said that loans 3-6 were used for consolidation. And that it was often able to
reduce the monthly amount Miss R was spending on repayment each month. While I
appreciate that Lloyds might have, on some of the occasions, reduced the monthly amount
Miss R was paying, this was often because the loan term was increasing. So despite any
marginal saving on the monthly payments, Miss Rs overall indebtedness was increasing.
Based on everything Ive said above, I dont think it was responsible of Lloyds to lend to Miss
R after the second loan. Its clear to me that Miss R was struggling to make ends meet as aresult of her limited income. Lloyds ought to have realised that agreeing to these loans only
meant that she got herself into more and more debt that she couldnt repay. So Im intending
to conclude that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably when it provided loans 3 to 6 to Miss
R.
Putting things right
Ive thought very carefully about what fair compensation would look like in this case.
Generally, this service looks to put things right by putting the consumer back in the position
they would have been in had the lending not been agreed. And normally, in irresponsible
lending cases, wed ask the consumer to repay the capital balance, but the business, in this
case Lloyds, would need to refund any interest and charges that had been associated with
the loan. But having given careful thought to the matter and the circumstances of this
particular case, I dont think that such an award goes far enough here. I think that this is the
case for two reasons.
Firstly, the impact of these loans has been quite serious for Miss R. Mrs T has told this
service that there were often periods of time where Miss R couldnt afford to eat or pay for
other basic living costs. She didnt understand why she didnt have any money  and this is
as Mrs T says, is because she didnt understand that shed taken out a loan or the
implications that the loans would have on her long-term or her finances.
I accept that Lloyds may not have known about Miss Rs difficulties at the time, nonetheless
the consequences of Miss R being lent more money than she could reasonably afford to
repay has led Miss R into years of financial hardship.
Secondly, Miss R is no longer able to work. This came about in 2013 when Miss R was
officially diagnosed with a life-long learning disability. And so, what was already a large
amount of money to expect Miss R to repay on a low income, would now be even more
difficult as Miss Rs sole income are the benefits she receives. I cant see anyway that Miss
R would be able to repay the outstanding amount in a reasonable period of time without
experiencing furthermore financial difficulties. And I cant see Miss Rs circumstances
changing any time soon.
Bearing in mind the circumstances of this case, Miss Rs current financial position
and the amount of distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds unfairly providing these
loans to Miss R, I dont think removing the interest fees and charges goes far enough. The
circumstances of this case and in particular the financial hardship which has been caused
and is likely to be caused by asking Miss R to pay funds she doesnt have and is unlikely to
get, lead me to think that the fair and reasonable thing for Lloyds to do here, given all the
circumstances, is for Lloyds to ensure that Miss R pays no more towards this loan.
I understand that this balance is now owed to a third-party. So I recommend that Lloyds do
one of two things:
1. It can buy back the debt from the third party and write the balance off, or
2. Repay the outstanding balance amount to the third party.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my decision to uphold this complaint, and my findings on this matter remain the same as those in my provisional decision. 
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed to buy back the debt from the 
third-party, and that it would write off the remaining balance. 
Miss Rs representative, Mrs T, responded to ask if her sister would get a refund of the 
interest and charges shes paid over the years and if shed get a payment of compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think Miss R has repaid more than the principle sum lent to her. 
So, the amount of the debt left outstanding is a combination of the principle balance and 
interest and charges. Miss R has also had a refund of PPI premiums. A proportion of the 
monthly payments she was making towards the loans, would have included an amount for 
PPI, which she has already been refunded. With this in mind, I dont that a refund of interest 
and charges would have been more than the outstanding balance left to pay.  
Because Ive asked Lloyds to write off the outstanding balance, this will mean that Miss R 
will have repaid less than the amount she was lent. Im satisfied that this also encompasses 
fair compensation for any distress and inconvenience Lloyds actions in relation to providing 
loan 3-6 caused her. 
So, while Ive carefully thought about matters and I may have told Lloyds to pay an amount 
of compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused Miss R were it not for 
my direction to write off the outstanding balance, Im not making an additional award for 
distress and inconvenience.
I understand that this situation has also caused a lot of distress and upset to Mrs T, as she 
has been dealing with Miss Rs financial matters in more recent years. However, Im not able 
to award additional compensation to Mrs T, as this complaint isnt about her account or the 
actions of Lloyds towards her. So, I wont be asking Lloyds to compensate Mrs T. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Miss R, I order Lloyds to buy back the debt from the third party and 
write the outstanding debt off.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Lloyds Bank 
PLC must put things right for Miss R by doing what Ive said above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman