DRN-3691655
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Santander UK Plc have failed to refund her for a transaction 
she didnt make.
What happened
On 9 October 2021, Ms Ms handbag was unfortunately snatched from her while she 
was out shopping. Ms Ms three bank cards, including for her Santander account, oyster 
card, mobile phone, house keys and cash were all stolen.
Following this, an Automated Teller Machine withdrawal of £300 was made from Ms Ms 
account. She reported this to Santander and asked them to reimburse her as the 
transaction was fraudulent.
Ms M explained that she memorised the Personal Identification Number (PIN) issued to 
her and hadnt kept a written record of it with anywhere. She also said that nobody else 
knew or had access to her PIN.
Santander declined Ms Ms claim, as based on the testimony she had provided, they 
couldnt establish how her PIN wouldve been known by the third party. Unhappy with 
this, Ms M referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said that Ms M consented to the transaction as the most likely 
explanation was that her PIN was somewhere in her handbag. This allowed the third 
party to make the withdrawal. Ms M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 25 August 2022. My findings were as follows:
I accept Ms Ms handbag was stolen and that her card and PIN were used without 
her knowledge and consent. And I dont dispute she didnt authorise the 
withdrawal of £300.
However, under the relevant regulations, Ms M can still be held liable for 
unauthorised payments if she failed to keep her details, such as her PIN, secure to 
such an extent that it could be deemed as gross negligence  which Im afraid is 
the case here. Ill explain why.
Having looked at Santanders records, Im satisfied the genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the withdrawal. While the card was stolen, the withdrawal couldnt 
have been made without Ms Ms PIN. So, this leaves the question, how did the third 
party know Ms Ms PIN?
The records show that there were two incorrect PIN attempts before the third 
party entered the correct PIN and withdrew £300. So, Ive thought about how the 
third party correctly guessed Ms Ms PIN with only two incorrect attempts.
Ms M has confirmed she hadnt changed her PIN to something more memorable, 
such as her date of birth or anniversary. The PIN history supports this as Ms Ms 
PIN was the same one as Santander provided to her in June 2018.
This means the third party was able to easily guess the randomly generated 
system PIN number after two incorrect attempts. On balance, I think this is very 
unlikely given that there are thousands of combination possibilities.
Ive looked at Ms Ms bank statements to see when she last used her card. Ms M 
last used her card a few months prior to the transaction. So, this rules out the 
possibility that the third party may have learned Ms Ms PIN, for example by 
hovering over her shoulder while she made a transaction. There was no point 
where I can safely say Ms Ms PIN couldve been compromised.
I appreciate Ms M has reiterated that she knew her PIN by memory and hadnt 
written it down anywhere. And that nobody including her family members knew 
her PIN. But she has also told us that she had two other bank cards and the PIN 
for those were also generated by the banks.
So, I dont think its improbable that Ms M wrote down her PIN numbers as a 
reminder and left them in her handbag. This would also appear consistent with 
the two incorrect PIN attempts before the third party entered the correct PIN and 
made the withdrawal.
Under the circumstances, I think the only plausible explanation here is that Ms M 
had kept a written record of her PIN in her handbag. And I cant reasonably reach 
another conclusion as its unlikely that the third party was able to guess Ms Ms PIN 
after two attempts, if the PIN wasnt noted down in Ms Ms handbag somewhere.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ms account makes it clear that she should take 
reasonable steps to keep her PIN secret. It also says she should never disclose 
her PIN, write it down or record it. It reminds Ms M that anyone who knows her 
PIN can gain access to her account.
Based on this, I think Ms M was reasonably required under the terms and conditions 
of her account to keep her PIN safe. I think a reasonable person would consider it 
careless of Ms M to have left her PIN in her handbag  which as Ive explained, is 
the most probable explanation for what happened here  enabling the third party to 
withdraw funds from her account.
Im satisfied it amounts to gross negligence on Ms Ms part. It follows that 
Santander can fairly hold Ms M liable for this transaction even though she didnt 
authorise it.
I appreciate Ms M will be disappointed with my decision, particularly since another 
bank has refunded her. Im pleased that Ms M was able to recover some of her 
lost money having gone through a traumatic experience. But this doesnt mean 
Santander must also do the same.
As explained, under the relevant rules, Santander can hold Ms M liable for the 
withdrawal which means I cant say they must refund her. There wasnt anything 
Santander couldve done to prevent the transaction and they treated Ms M fairly 
by blocking her card as soon as she reported it and investigated her claim. So, I 
wont be asking them to reimburse her.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Santander told us they had nothing to add. Ms M didnt have any other information to 
provide either. So, there isnt anything else for me to consider.
Im satisfied with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and I see no reason 
to deviate from the outcome I explained.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman