DRN-3364586
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Oplo PL Limited (trading as 1st Stop) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
1st Stop provided Mr A with two personal loans. Details are given below:
Loan Capital 
amountterm Total amount 
to repayMonthly 
instalmentDate of loan
1 £3000 36 months £4,339.44 £120.54 17/08/2018
2 £8000 60 months £14,480.40 £241.34 08/08/2019
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
 Were 1st Stops checks reasonable and proportionate for Loan 1 and 2?
1st Stop says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr A prior to 
providing him with loan 1 in August 2018. It says it also carried out a credit check. 1st Stop 
says it verified Mr As income by using an online verification tool.  
1st Stop says it verified Mr As income was £1475, and he declared to it that he was 
receiving £82.80 in child benefit. It used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data to calculate 
his living costs and recorded this down as £626.85. It also used information from his credit 
search to calculate his credit commitments. It noted down his mortgage payment as £462 
and a credit card monthly payment as £12.51. It could see that Mr A had 3 defaults and 
recorded down payments for 2 of these of £25 and £50. After it deducted the loan repayment 
of £120.54, it saw that according to its calculation Mr A had disposable income of £260.90. 
So, based on this I can see why it would think that Mr A could afford loan 1. But I dont think 
it carried out proportionate checks when it carried out its assessment.
I say this when I consider the amount Mr A would be repaying back and the term of the loan. 
And also due to the information it had gathered and in particular what it found on its credit 
search. Mr A had 3 defaults that although were incurred years before this application, still 
had balances that Mr A needed to repay. In addition, Mr A had some arrears on his 
mortgage account. So, although 1st Stop asked Mr A about these entries on its credit 
search, I think it ought to have gone further with its checks here and carried out a complete 
review of Mr As finances.  This is so that it could assure itself that Mr A could repay this loan 
over the 3-year term in a sustainable way. 
Again, 1st Stop says it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr A prior to 
loan 2 in August 2019. This was a top up loan and Mr A paid the outstanding balance of 
loan 1 with some of the capital of loan 2. Just like Loan 1, 1st Stop says it carried out a credit 
check and also verified Mr As income using an online tool. 
1st Stop verified Mr As income this time to be £1555 with child benefit of £82.80. It used 
ONS data to calculate Mr As living expenses as £667.40. It used information from its credit 
search to assess Mr As credit commitments. It recorded down Mr As mortgage payment as 
£467.00 and a monthly credit card payment of £13.32. After the monthly repayment for Loan 
2, it assessed Mr As disposable income as £248.74. Again, loan 2 on the surface would look 
affordable for Mr A but I dont think 1st Stop carried out proportionate checks for this loan 
either.
I say this because this was now Mr As second loan with 1st Stop and it was for a lot more. 
Mr A was also asking for this loan to be over 5 years, a much longer term. In addition, 1st 
Stop would have seen within the credit search results it had in front of it that Mr A had made 
no progress in repaying the outstanding balances on his 3 defaulted accounts. I think on 
seeing this, and considering the size and term of loan, I think 1st Stop at this stage ought to 
have done more and carried out a complete review of Mr As finances that included verifying 
his expenditure as well, so that it could see that he could repay the loan over the 5 year 
term. 
In conclusion and for the reasons given above, I dont think that the checks 1st Stop carried 
out before providing Mr A with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 1st Stop that Mr A would have 
been unable to repay loans 1 and 2?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before either loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told 1st Stop that Mr A would have been 
unable to sustainably repay loan 1 in 2018 and then loan 2 in 2019.
1st Stop was required to establish whether Mr A could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Mr A has provided our service with bank statements from the period of time before the loans 
were granted. He has provided statements from 2018 and also 2019. Ive carefully 
considered the information provided within these statements. Having done so, its clear Mr A 
was in financial difficulty at the time both loans were granted. I will explain why I think this 
was the case.
For loan 1 that it granted in August 2018:
1st Stop could see 3 defaulted accounts but included monthly repayments for only 2 
of them. Mr A still needed to repay the balance of £2996 owing on a credit card, a 
third defaulted account. This was not considered by 1st Stop in its assessment and 
so any repayment to this debt would have come from the disposable income that it 
had calculated.
Mr A was regularly using his overdraft facility during the three-month period leading 
up to him requesting this loan. The fees that he would have incurred would have 
used up more of that disposable income. 
I can see within the bank statements that Mr A had more expenditure going out of his 
account each month than his income. 
For loan 2 that it granted in August 2019:1st Stop saw that the same 3 defaults were on Mr As credit search results with 
outstanding balances, but it didnt include them in its assessment. Even though Mr A 
had these to repay. Instead it noted makes no payments to any defaults. I dont 
think it made a fair assessment of Mr As credit commitments here by not taking 
these 3 accounts into consideration.
Again, Mr A was heavily using his overdraft facility, and this would have incurred fees 
that would have eaten away at any disposable income he may have had.
Mr A took out a short-term loan in May 2019 to cover a shortfall in his finances and in 
August 2019, only a day before he requested this loan, he made a sizable 
repayment to a pawnbroker. 
Mr As expenditure during the time leading up to him requesting Loan 2 was higher 
than the income he was receiving. 
Mr A has told our service that during the time leading up to both loans 1 and 2, he was 
borrowing money from friends and family to cover a shortfall in his finances. I can see on the 
statements he has provided that there are several deposits and I think on balance these are 
the amounts that Mr A is referring to in both 2018 and 2019.
When I consider all that I have said above for loans 1 and 2, I think if 1st Stop had carried 
out further checks it would have uncovered all of this and seen the true extent of Mr As 
finances. It would have seen in both instances that Mr A had more going out than was going 
in. To cover the shortfall, on balance and after looking through his bank statements it looks 
like he was receiving money from friends and family to cover the shortfall as he has told our 
service was the case. I think on seeing this 1st Stop would have seen that the loan 
repayments for both loans were not affordable or sustainable for Mr A and I think it would 
have not provided him with them. 
So, it follows that I currently think that 1st Stop needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. 
Mr A didnt respond to my provisional decision.
1st Stop has provided a detailed response and although I have not included every point 
that it has made below, I have considered everything it has said carefully. I will summarise 
what I believe the most relevant points that it has made. It says:
It maintains that the checks it completed for both loans were reasonable and 
proportionate.
For loan 1, whilst defaults were evident that doesnt automatically preclude it from 
providing a customer with lending. The explanation for the historic arrears from Mr 
A was both plausible and acceptable. It says it did not give it cause to probe further 
into his finances.
For loan 2, Mr A was not making any payments at this stage to the 3 historic 
defaults. It says this shows it considered these accounts and made a fair and 
accurate assessment of his credit commitments.
For Loan 2, the ombudsman commented that a day before Mr A requested the 
loan, he made a sizeable repayment to a pawnbroker. It says unless Mr A had 
disclosed this to it, this is not something it could reasonably have been expected to have known about. 
The ombudsman commented upon the use of the overdraft facility ahead of both 
loans. It says the account was within the agreed limit and there were no missed 
payments markers.
Overall, it didnt think it did anything wrong when it agreed to lend to Mr A on either 
occasion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The submission from 1st Stop hasnt persuaded me that I should change my provisional 
decision. 
1st Stop says the checks it completed for both loans were reasonable and proportionate. It 
has also made comments about information that I have relied upon that it says it didnt have 
when it made its checks this includes bank statements that our service gathered.
I concluded in my provisional decision that 1st Stop didnt carry out proportionate checks on 
either loan. I drew this conclusion when I saw how much each loan was for, the length of 
time that Mr A was looking to repay the credit in and also the information that 1st Stop did 
have in front of it. It could see that Mr A had 3 historic defaults that he hadnt repaid. There 
were outstanding balances on each of these accounts. So although I acknowledge 1st Stop 
would still potentially lend to a customer with credit impairment, I think with the information it 
had in front of it, it ought to have wanted to carry out a complete review of Mr As finances to 
assure itself that he would be able to repay both loans in a sustainable way. The information 
it had gathered I think ought to have prompted it to do that for both loans. 
After I drew the conclusion that the checks 1st Stop made were not proportionate, I then 
went on to use additional information to see what 1st Stop most likely would have seen if it 
had carried out further checks. This included bank statements provided by Mr A. 1st Stop 
says it was under no requirement to obtain bank statements and also that it couldnt 
reasonably have been expected to have known about information that was contained within 
them such as a payment to a pawnbroker. But again, I made a finding on the balance of 
probabilities, that 1st Stop needed to carry out further checks. And so, my findings after that 
point are looking at what 1st Stop would have most likely seen if it had carried out further 
checks. I think it would have seen that Mr A wouldnt have been able to afford either loan if it 
had done so, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision. 
As I am upholding Mr As complaint, I need to think about 1st Stop would need to do to 
put Mr A in a position he would have been in if it hadnt agreed to lend to him. He would 
still need to pay back the money that he had use of, but I would need consider amongst 
other things that interest and charges be taken off. 
I have considered all of the points 1st Stop has made in its submission, and I do thank it for 
engaging with and responding to the findings of my provisional decision. But my findings 
and decision hasnt changed. So, it now needs to put things right. Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for 1st Stop to put things right by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges on loans 1-2 and treat all the payments Mr A 
has made as payments towards the capital for each of these loans.
If reworking Mr As loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then 1st Stop should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr As credit file in relation to loans 1-
2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1st Stop to deduct tax from this interest. 1st Stop should 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Oplo PL Limited to pay 
compensation as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman