DRN-2959362
The complaint
Mr S complains Admiral Insurance Company Limited increased the cost of his premiums for 
his motor insurance policy without telling him.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Admiral. In April 2020 the policy 
automatically renewed, but the cost of the premiums had increased to around £250 a month 
extra. Mr S discovered this in December 2020, explaining the premiums come out of an 
account thats rarely used.
When looking into things, Mr S realised the notification for the automatic renewal was sent 
through a portal, which he hadnt signed up to. He was also unhappy about the increase in 
the premium at renewal, increase in the premium for a non-fault claim in July 2019, and was 
unhappy with the response received from Admirals pricing department. So, he complained 
about these issues.
Admiral replied to the complaint. They said their systems showed Mr S had agreed to 
receive documents through the portal on 27 September 2018. They said they showed they 
sent the documents for Mr Ss renewal through the portal on 9 April 2020, ready to renew on 
26 April 2020. Admiral said they appreciated Mr Ss surprise at the premium, so they 
referred the matter to their pricing department. They explained many of their rates are based 
on theft claims  and in their data Mr Ss type of car was at a much higher risk of being 
stolen than in the previous policy year. They said this increase in risk is the main reason for 
the additional premium cost. 
In relation to the additional premium for the non-fault accident Admiral said theyd listened to 
the call Mr S had with them in July 2019. Their agent said the additional premium was 
£377.58  and they said this is because their claims experience shows policyholders with 
non-fault claims are more likely to go on to make a fault claim in future. They said theyd 
assessed Mr Ss risk properly, and the pricing department had given the correct information. 
But, they said their claims statistics are commercially sensitive information, so wouldnt 
release them. Admiral said if Mr S wanted to cancel the policy in the next seven days then 
he could do so, and theyd waive the cancellation fee.
Unhappy with this Mr S asked us to look into things. One of our investigators began to do so, 
and as wed normally do, wanted to ensure we had all the information from both parties.
Admiral provided some information, but our investigator asked for more. After several 
requests where Admiral didnt meet our deadlines, our investigator issued his outcome. He 
upheld the complaint based on the information hed received from both parties. He couldnt 
see that Mr S had ever agreed to only receive documents in the portal  and as Admiral 
hadnt provided us with evidence their pricing information was fair either, he upheld the 
complaint. He recommended Admiral refund the additional cost of the premiums in the 2020 
policy year versus the 2019 policy year, plus 8%, and pay compensation of £100.
Mr S accepted our investigators outcome  but Admiral didnt. They replied, said theyd not 
received one of our investigators emails about the information outstanding, and asked for 
two weeks to get back to us.
Admiral eventually replied with some of the information our investigator asked but not all of 
it. And after hed reviewed the information that had been provided, he still felt itd not been 
made clear to Mr S that he wouldnt receive any documents on email. He said it wasnt fair to 
increase the premiums without telling Mr S what those premiums would be. So, he still 
upheld the complaint  and invited Admiral to get in touch if they were prepared to settle the 
complaint. Admiral havent been in touch, so Ive been passed the case to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In complaints where someone isnt happy about the premium increase, we do require 
insurers to provide us with their pricing information so we can satisfy ourselves its been 
applied fairly. This is done in confidence, because as Admiral have said it is commercially 
sensitive information which we wouldnt share with consumers.
But, in this case Admiral have failed to provide this, despite multiple requests. From what I 
can see, theyve not explained why theyve not provided the information either.
So, I cant be satisfied the premium increase has been applied fairly. And that would be 
important in any case, but in Mr Ss case I think this has had a big impact on him. I say that 
because in April 2019 Mr Ss premium was set at £2,452.74  in April 2020 it was set at 
£4,649.46. Thats an increase of nearly £2,200 which is substantial  especially given its a 
nearly 100% increase on his previous premium.
I also need to be satisfied they made Mr S aware of what the costs would be. Ive listened to 
the initial call when Mr S was taking out the April 2019 policy. He asked for the documents to 
be emailed to him  which the agent he was speaking to said they would do.
Mr S has been clear and consistent in saying he never signed up to the portal  and Admiral 
have failed to provide evidence to show Mr S did. The only evidence Admiral have sent, 
which they say shows Mr S signed up for the portal, shows it becoming active when the 
policy started. But, that doesnt show Mr S agreed to it, or accepted that only information 
would be sent by the portal.
Overall then, Ive seen no evidence to prove the premiums being charged by Admiral are 
correct, or that they made Mr S aware of the increase in premiums. Because of that, Ill be 
requiring them to refund the difference in premiums from 2019 to 2020. Theyll also need to 
pay Mr S 8% interest on each refunded payment from the date it was taken, to the date its 
refunded, as Mr S has been denied this money unfairly. I also think compensation is fair as I 
can imagine it was a significant shock to Mr S about the increase in premiums  and I think 
£100 is appropriate for this.  
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Refund the difference in premiums from the 2020 policy, to the 2019 policy
On each payment Admiral need to add 8% interest from the date of payment, to the 
date of settlementPay Mr S £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Admiral to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to above. Admiral must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax theyve 
deducted if he asks them for one.  
My final decision
It follows Im upholding this complaint and I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to 
carry out the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman