DRN-3505684
The complaint
Mr N says AvantCredit of UK, LLC irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr N took out a 24-month instalment loan for £7,000 from AvantCredit on 15 May 2016. The 
monthly repayments were £426.48 and the total repayable was £10,235.56.
Mr N says the lender did not take into account the other borrowing that would have been on 
his credit report and made an unfair lending decision. He was in a financially abusive 
relationship and was coerced into taking out this loan, and a lot of other credit. Then as part 
of its collections process the lender, and its agent, disclosed details of the status of the loan 
to his ex-partner.
He asks that all interest and charges he paid are refunded with interest, that the remaining 
debt is written-off and that he is compensated for the unauthorised disclosure of his personal 
financial information. He has explained how the overall situation severely impacted his 
mental health and wellbeing.
Our investigator found Mr Ns complaint should be upheld in part. He said AvantCredit 
should not have lent to Mr N as its credit check showed he was having financial difficulties 
and was reliant on credit. However, whilst he understood it would have been distressing for 
details of the loan to later be disclosed to his ex-partner he found it was a third party who did 
this, not the lender. He also could not see Mr N had provided a change of address to 
AvantCredit. Finally, he concluded there werent grounds to instruct the lender to write-off 
the loan balance as he could see Mr N had the benefit of some of the money. 
Both parties responded, disagreeing with aspects of this assessment.
Mr N said, in summary:
He strongly objects to the idea that he had any enjoyment (his word) from the 
money. He has provided adequate evidence to support what he has told us about the 
financial abuse he suffered. 
Had the lender done more to understand the reason for his application, not only 
should it have seen that giving the loan would be irresponsible, but it could have 
identified he was a victim of financial abuse.
Once he stopped making payments in March 2017 AvantCredit did not help, despite 
knowing the circumstances, rather it added more charges to his balance. It was the 
only lender who did not engage positively with his debt management advisor, and it 
continues to chase him for a balance in excess of the capital he borrowed despite 
now knowing the circumstances and him having repaid £2982.
The investigator has misunderstood who disclosed the status of his loan to his ex-
partner. It was not the third party he named, rather it was an agent acting on behalf of 
AvantCredit to collect the debt. And his debt management advisor had notified 
AvantCredit of his change in contact details, providing the necessary written 
authorisation from him. He had also notified AvantCredit that he was no longer with 
his ex-partner. So, the agent was very wrong to disclose his personal financial 
information to his ex-partner, and seemingly threaten to place a charge on her 
property. This error brought his abuser back into his life, creating a threat to his 
mental health and generating costs as his solicitor became involved. 
AvantCredit said, in summary:
The loan was for debt consolidation so would have reduced Mr Ns monthly spend on 
credit from 55% to 20% of his net income, leaving him with disposable income of 
£1,368.87.
Whilst it now appreciates the issues involving Mr Ns ex-partner it cannot see that it 
could have discovered this from additional checks.
It remains satisfied the loan was affordable and lent fairly.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mr N. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr N could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr N. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr N.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is
required to make repayments for an extended period).There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr N, and have considered the following questions:
 
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when
assessing Mr Ns loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to
repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Before presenting my findings, I want to first respond to Mr Ns comment on the word 
enjoyment. I cant see that the investigator used that language in his assessment, but I 
wonder perhaps if Mr N is referencing the phrase some funds were also used for Mr Ns 
benefit. I apologise if this has led Mr N to make the inference he complains about. I can 
assure him that wasnt the investigators intention  he meant no more than he could see 
Mr N had receipt of the money, and with it repaid some of the payday loans and other debts 
in his name. We appreciate how difficult it must be for Mr N to revisit this period of his life. I 
also want to reassure Mr N that our approach to complaints that concern financial abuse do 
not vary by gender, only by the individual circumstances of each case. 
I can see that AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr N before it approved the loan. 
It asked for details of his salary and monthly expenses, and his employment and residential 
status. It carried out a credit check to understand his existing credit commitments and his 
credit history. It asked about the purpose of the loan which was debt consolidation. From 
these checks combined AvantCredit concluded the loan would be sustainably affordable for 
Mr N. 
I am not persuaded these checks were proportionate  Mr N was borrowing a significant 
amount of money, the monthly repayments were high at £426.48 and the initial credit check 
showed Mr N was already borrowing frequently. However, I wont comment further on this as 
even with the information it gathered I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision. 
Ill explain why.
The credit check the lender completed showed Mr N had just over £18,000 of unsecured 
debt and needed to spend £1,955 each month to service this debt. This excluded his 
mortgage payment. This was around half of his declared income and I think AvantCredit 
ought to have seen there was a risk he would be unable to sustainably repay this loan. He 
had already needed to take out six payday loans in the previous six months and was 
overlimit on two credit card accounts.
AvantCredit argues that the loan was for debt consolidation and would reduce Mr Ns 
monthly spend on unsecured credit to 20% of his income. But it also admits that it didnt ask 
which debts he intended to settle, or settle them directly as other lenders do. In the 
circumstances I dont think it was responsible for AvantCredit to go ahead and lend without 
knowing this, and also without understanding why Mr N had taken out so many payday loans 
recently. Mr Ns credit file as it stood showed that he was under financial duress.
Even assuming the entire loan was used to settle existing debt, this loan was nearly doubling 
Mr Ns total indebtedness (unsecured) and so extending his reliance on high-cost credit. To 
meet its regulatory obligations AvantCredit had to check Mr N could afford to sustainably repay this loan  so without borrowing to repay or suffering other adverse financial 
consequences  not just the pounds and pence affordability. And I cant see it considered 
this.
It follows I think AvantCredit was wrong to lend to Mr N. 
I have then turned to how AvantCredit must put things right. Our investigator found that there 
were insufficient grounds to instruct the lender to write-off the balance. And I have reached 
the same conclusion. Mr N has told us he was a victim of financial abuse at the time of this 
loan application and detailed how this affected his mental health. He has provided two 
pieces of expert evidence to support his submission. I find Mr Ns testimony that he was 
co-erced into applying for this loan wholly plausible. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
has published in detail about the long term and devastating impact financial abuse can have 
on victims, and so how firms must support vulnerable consumers. 
But I have not seen any evidence that AvantCredit was aware of Mr Ns position at the time 
he applied, or indeed in May 2017 when his debt advice caseworker contacted it. I can see 
that in May 2017 Mr Ns representative provided evidence of his mental health 
circumstances  but not of the financial abuse. 
CONC 7.10.1R states that a lender must suspend the pursuit of recovery of a debt from a 
customer when:
1. the firm has been notified that the customer might not have the mental capacity to
make relevant financial decisions about the management of the customer's debt
and/or to engage in the debt recovery process at the time; or
2. the firm understands or ought reasonably to be aware that the customer lacks mental
capacity to make relevant financial decisions about the management of the
customer's debt and/or to engage in the debt recovery process at the time.
[Note: paragraphs 3.7r of DCG and 7.13 of ILG]
From what I can see AvantCredit met these requirements in part. It paused payment and 
collections communications. But it didnt freeze interest and charges as the debt advisor had 
requested (or respond to discuss what steps it would agree to take) until it set up a payment 
plan in February 2018. It did at that time however backdate the plan which had the effect of 
removing interest and charges applied since May 2017. The suspension was then 
deactivated in error in May 2019. AvantCredit has subsequently agreed to work with the new 
debt owner to reduce the outstanding balance by the amount of the interest and charges 
applied between May 2019 and December 2019 (the interest was again suspended in 
January 2020).  
However, as I have decided it was irresponsible for AvantCredit to lend to Mr N, and am 
instructing it to refund all interest and charges over the life of the loan, my award will 
supercede its offer. In addition, AvantCredit offered £50 compensation to Mr N for any 
distress and confusion its administrative errors caused. I think an amount of £150 is more 
reasonable given the level of distress Mr N suffered as a result of the lenders 
mismanagement of his account at times.
Did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way towards Mr N?
Mr N says that AvantCredit disclosed information about the loan to his ex-partner. But from 
the evidence I have seen this happened in February 2021, after the debt was sold on 16 
December 2020. So I cant investigate this as part of this complaint. I note his comment that 
this incident renewed his contact with his abuser, but in fairness to all parties involved I have to first direct him to the owner of the debt who was responsible for the collections activity at 
the time. It can then investigate and respond to Mr Ns concerns. I know he has the contact 
details. If he is unhappy with the business response he can of course bring his complaint to 
us. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr N to repay the capital amount that he borrowed in the 
circumstances of this complaint. But he has paid extra for lending that should not have been 
provided to him so AvantCredit needs to put that right.
I understand it has sold the debt so it should first try to buy it back or if that is not possible it 
must work with the new debt owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps set out 
below.
It should:
refund all interest and charges Mr N paid on the loan;
if reworking Mr Ns loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
if reworking Mr Ns account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding 
AvantCredit should work with Mr N to agree an affordable repayment plan; 
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ns credit file; and 
pay Mr N directly £150 compensation for the distress caused by the administrative 
errors on his account.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to take off tax from this interest. AvantCredit must give 
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ns complaint in part. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman