DRN-3294005
The complaint
Mr K complained that his claim was unfairly declined and delayed by Amtrust Europe Limited 
(Amtrust) under his sofa protection plan.
What happened
Mr K made a claim against his policy on 27 October 2020 when he identified a stain on his 
sofa. Amtrust reviewed Mr Ks claim form regarding a stain to the head area of the sofa and 
on 9 November 2020 Amtrust declined Mr Ks claim as it said the damage wasnt covered by 
the policy. Amtrust said the accumulation of damage you have claimed for is not consistent 
with a single incident and therefore we regret to advise that we are unable to process your 
claim further.
Mr K complained to Amtrust in April as he said he hadnt heard anything. When Mr K was 
told his claim was declined, he was unhappy. So, Amtrust decided to send a technician to 
review the stain on the sofa. The technician carried out tests and confirmed grease 
contamination had built up over time which had caused the staining. So, Amtrust confirmed it 
was maintaining its decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought the evidence supported 
Amtrusts decision to decline the claim. She thought Amtrust had reviewed the claim and 
informed Mr K of the decision in a timely manner. Mr K disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have checked the relevant terms and conditions of the policy to understand what is 
covered. In section 3 it shows the policy covers sudden accidental damage and stains, but 
this is caveated by section 4 which states whats not covered. These show any stains or 
damage arising over time, gradual wear and tear, or your product becoming gradually dirty 
and out of condition over time is excluded from the policy.
Its Mr Ks responsibility to evidence the damage and I think its clear Amtrust have 
acknowledged the sofa was damaged. Therefore, as Amtrust has relied on an exclusion 
clause to decline the claim, it needs to provide reasonable evidence to support this 
conclusion for me to think its decision is fair.
On receipt of the claim form in November 2020, Amtrust reviewed the form and declined the 
claim. Amtrust said the stain was not due to a single incident and was due to an 
accumulation of damage. Ive considered whether I think this is a fair conclusion based upon 
the information Amtrust received in the claim form. The claim form contained a photograph 
of the damage and Mr K recorded the damage was caused by his head. Having reviewed 
the photograph, the staining is quite dark and severe, therefore, I do think its unlikely this 
wouldve been caused by someone resting their head on the sofa in just one sitting. Amtrust 
said it thought the damage had been caused over time. I think Amtrust will have experience 
of claims of this nature and wouldve used this to inform its decision. I think the conclusion 
Amtrust made is the most likely explanation of the damage. Therefore, I think Amtrust has 
been fair in declining the claim, as the exclusion clause would apply.
Additionally, in April 2021 after Mr Ks complaint, Amtrusts technician carried out some tests 
on the sofa. The technician reported the problem as being caused by natural oils. He said 
[the] consumer has a two-seater electric recliner sofa, on the [left hand] inside back 
headrest area there is a dark patch within the leather, this is due to grease contamination in 
the leather in use, built up over time. We have tested the area by cleaning and then also 
scraping to the top of the leather to create a white patch and heat treated to see if the oils 
would come back up and they did. You could see the oils moving on the top of the leather 
and the headrest is really tacky to the touch. This all indicates grease contamination in the 
leather hide.
I think Amtrust has taken a reasonable course of action when Mr K complained. I think this 
was a reasonable approach taken by Amtrust to provide assurance over its decision. The 
evidence it has provided from the technician supported its original decision to decline the 
claim. There havent been any expert reports provided that contradict these findings. 
Therefore, I do think Amtrusts decision is a fair one, so I uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr K said there was a delay in Amtrust reaching its decision. However, I can see Amtrust 
declined the claim initially within two weeks. Unfortunately, Mr K didnt see this 
correspondence that was sent to him by email. But, as Amtrust did send it, I think it did 
provide a prompt response to Mr Ks claim. So, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Amtrust Europe Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman