DRN-3748660
The complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC applied a CIFAS marker against her
name and closed her account with immediate effect. Shes also unhappy with the service
it provided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. But briefly Barclays offered a total of £350 in compensation; £150 for the time taken 
and £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs V. 
Mrs V wasnt happy so brought her complaint here. Our investigator upheld the complaint 
and recommended Barclays increase its offer to £750. He didnt think Barclays had sufficient 
grounds to apply the marker or close Mrs Vs account with immediate effect. 
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendations, but Mrs V doesnt feel £750 reflects 
the amount of humiliation and months of anxiety the matter has caused her. And she feels 
this values Barclays culpability at £750 for incorrectly stating she was a fraudster.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator broadly for the 
same reasons.
Whilst Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of the complaint, Ive read and listened to 
everything Mrs V has sent us. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I 
havent considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what 
I think is the right outcome.
Barclays were quite right to place blocks on the account when they received a report that it 
had been used to receive fraudulent funds. This is what I would expect them to do as a 
regulated financial business. So, I think they acted responsibly here. 
Barclays can close an account with immediate effect if it reasonably believes it is being used 
for fraudulent purposes. But by its own omission, Barclays didnt make any contact with Mrs 
V to discuss the activity prior to making its decision  so I dont think it acted fairly when 
closing Mrs Vs account with immediate effect. But Barclays can make a commercial 
decision to close an account with notice - in line with its terms and conditions and I cant 
interfere with that. So, whilst I will go on to consider the impact closing the account without 
notice had on Mrs V, I wont be asking it to re-open Mrs Vs account.
As well as not acting fairly when closing Mrs Vs account without notice, I dont think 
Barclays has followed the CIFAS principles when applying the CIFAS marker to Mrs Vs 
account. It seems Barclays doesnt disagree with that - as it removed the marker in January 
2020. These are the two reasons on which Mrs Vs complaint is being upheld  rather than 
on the basis of any law or code of conduct. So, Ive gone on to consider the impact all of this 
has had on Mrs V.
When considering distress and inconvenience, such awards are to reflect the impact on Mrs 
V and not to punish or fine Barclays  which is the job of the regulator.
The account was closed  without notice on 23 May 2019 and CIFAS marker applied on 31 
May 2019. CIFAS markers do have a detrimental impact on a consumers finances and I 
note a third-party bank declined Mrs Vs application to open an account on 18 July 2019 
revealing its decision was due to a CIFAS marker. 
Mrs V sent in many letters to Barclays asking for an explanation and chasing the matter, until 
Barclays finally responded in full and removed the marker on 30 January 2020.
Mrs V explained she has been plunged into anxiety, depression, sleepless nights and even 
contemplated suicide. She has been embarrassed in giving her friends the reasons for 
repeatedly needing to ask for financial support for everyday living. Her credit score has been 
affected and she had no notice to arrange alternative means by which she could pay her 
direct debits. She was also refused opening an ordinary account by a third-party bank.
I think the level of frustration and distress suffered by Mrs V was considerable. Barclays 
didnt deal effectively with the problems Mrs V was complaining about. The failure to respond 
went on for several months which must have created additional stress and Mrs V had to find 
other options to get the money she needed. I think the level of inconvenience must have 
been significant and meant Mrs V was put to extra effort to sort this out. 
Barclays has already agreed to our investigators recommendation to pay compensation 
totalling £750 to Mrs V because of the trouble and upset that shes incurred here. And while I 
accept that matters of compensation can be subjective, I feel that this amount does 
represent a fair and reasonable compensation amount for the distress and inconvenience 
incurred by Mrs V.
I am sorry to hear of everything Mrs V has gone through and appreciate she considers the 
impact things have had is worth more  but in the circumstances, I think £750 is a fair 
amount of compensation.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs V  Barclays should pay her £750 (less anything that has 
already been paid to her in relation to this matter).
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold the complaint and Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right 
for Mrs V as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman