DRN-2853407
The complaint
Mr S complains that Saga Services Limited (Saga) mis-sold a motor insurance policy.
What happened
On 5 December 2020, Mr S used a comparison website to choose insurance for his car for 
social, domestic and pleasure and for commuting. He chose to proceed with Saga. He paid 
for the policy including an administration fee.
Mr S was the policyholder. His wife and two children were covered as named drivers. Cover 
started from 27 December 2020.
On 6 February 2021, Mr S complained to Saga that the policy didnt cover the children for 
commuting. By a final response in March 2021, Saga turned down the complaint. Saga 
offered to waive the fee if Mr S cancelled the policy. Mr S brought his complaint to us later in 
March 2021.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Saga had mis-sold the policy or treated Mr S unfairly. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
After he had input his own details for the policy, the website asked as follows: -
"Additional drivers 
Would you like to add any additional drivers to this policy (up to a maximum of 
four)?"
This made clear to him that he was asking to add the additional drivers to the policy 
already requested and on the same terms - with commuting to one place of work. 
Saga should make a pro-rata refund of the policy cost without any deduction. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to take into account the relevant law, regulation and good practice. Above all, I have 
to decide whats fair and reasonable.
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with an individual consumers complaint against a 
regulated financial firm. Where we find that the firm has done something wrong, we look at 
the impact on the individual consumer and we consider whats fair to try to put that right. We 
dont direct the firm to change the way it deals with consumers generally.
In Mr Ss case, there is incomplete evidence of his online journey in December 2020. 
In February 2021, he complained that hed used one comparison site, but in mid-April 2021 
he told us hed actually used another comparison site. Either way, he has been trying to  
recreate his December 2020 journey by making more recent dummy applications. Saga 
hasnt provided full details of Mr Ss online journey.
From the screenshots Ive seen, I find that  before any mention of additional drivers  Mr S 
was faced with the question what do you use the car for?  He answered, Social including 
commuting to a single place of work. 
That question was about him. At that stage the question didnt contemplate use by additional 
drivers. So I dont accept that  when he was faced with the question about additional drivers 
 it was implied that they could also use his car for commuting to their respective places of 
work. 
Saga hasnt shown us enough evidence that it made the position clear before Mr S 
committed to buy the policy. However, Mr Ss commitment was subject to his statutory right 
to cancel the policy within the cooling-off period. Saga has shown us its welcome letter 
asking Mr S to check the policy documents.
Those documents included the policy schedule. It said the following:
Use
Use for social, domestic and pleasure (SDP) including commuting by policyholder 
and spouse/ domestic partner only.
You and, if named, your spouse or domestic partner can use the vehicle for any 
social, domestic or pleasure purpose and for travel to and from one place of paid 
employment.
All other drivers named can only use the vehicle for social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes.
This means the vehicle cannot be used:
 to travel to and from work, other than by you and your spouse/domestic partner;
The policy documents also included a certificate of insurance. It said the following:
Limitations to use
Use for social, domestic and pleasure purposes and by the policyholder or [Mr Ss 
wife] for travel to and from their one place of paid employment.
From the schedule and certificate, Im satisfied that Saga made it clear enough that Mr S 
and his wife could use the car for commuting but the children couldnt. 
He had a 14-day period to check the documents and to cancel without penalty. So he 
couldve cancelled the policy in mid-December and received a full refund.
Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt check the documents until late January or early February 
2021. But I dont hold Saga responsible for his distress at the thought of what mightve 
happened if either of the children had used his car to commute without checking the 
documents. 
Saga offered to waive the fee if Mr S cancelled the policy. And I would expect the insurer to 
make a pro rata refund for the unexpired balance of the policy year. But theres no evidence 
that he did cancel Sagas policy and/or buy another policy. The £25.00 admin fee was a non-refundable fee for setting-up the policy. In any event, Mr S 
hasnt cancelled the policy. So I see no reason to direct Saga to refund that fee.
Ive found that Saga has fallen short of showing that it made the position clear before Mr S 
committed to buy the policy. But Mr S shouldve checked the policy schedule and certificate. 
So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Saga to pay him compensation, or to make any 
more than a pro-rata refund in the event that he cancels the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Saga Services Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman