DRN-3166630
The complaint
Mr G complains about Insurance Factory Ltd trading as Lancaster Insurance Services (IFL) 
charging a fee to change his address, and its handling of the subsequent cancellation of his 
policy.
What happened
Mr G received a call from IFL in June 2021 to say it had been informed hed moved home. 
He was told his policy information needed to be updated, which he queried as the classic car 
it insured was kept at a different address. Mr G wasnt willing to pay the £30 administration 
charge for the address to be changed and said he wanted to cancel the policy. 
The next day Mr G completed an online complaint form. He says he wasnt aware the policy 
renewed automatically and reiterated that the car was still housed at the same address. In 
resolution he asked to pay the premium in full (as opposed to continuing the Direct Debt 
arrangement) and not to pay the £30 admin fee. 
On the day it spoke to Mr G IFL sent a cancellation notice. This confirmed the policy would 
cancel in seven days unless the £30 fee was paid. The company sent its final response to 
Mr Gs complaint two days later. It says the policy would be invalidated unless the address 
information was kept up to date. They also explained that renewal information was sent in 
May 2021, giving three weeks notice, by both email and post. 
IFL explained that although the car was housed elsewhere, Mr Gs residing address must be 
kept up to date and accurately recorded on his policy. If not, the policy would be invalidated 
and be likely not to pay out in the event of a claim.
IFL wrote to Mr G in July 2021 to confirm the policy had been cancelled. Mr G contacted the 
company the day after as he says he hadnt received its response to his complaint. IFL sent 
copies of its response and removed its cancellation fee as a goodwill gesture. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator upheld his complaint in part. He thought the company had acted fairly and in line 
with the policy terms in requiring up to date address details and applying a charge for this. 
He says the evidence shows correspondence was sent by email, relating to the complaint, 
cancellation and renewal. He didnt uphold this part of the complaint. But he found the 
company had made a mistake calculating the final balance, which needed to be corrected.   
Mr G disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. It 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint in part. My findings are broadly 
the same as our investigators. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr G, but I will explain 
why I think my decision is fair.
Under the What are my obligations section in the insurance policy information document it 
says:
Your policy and the premium quoted is based on the information you provide. You must give 
complete and accurate answers to any questions we may ask you. If you do not give us full 
and accurate information, your insurance cover may not be valid, we may
refuse to pay your claim or your policy may be treated as if it never existed.
If any of your details in the documents provided are incorrect or your circumstances change, 
you must notify Lancaster Insurance Services as soon as possible.
The certificate of motor insurance under Garaging Endorsement says:
The insured vehicle must be kept in a locked and secured building overnight when the 
vehicle is within a radius of half a mile of your private dwelling place or at any other address 
where the insured vehicle is normally kept which has been specifically agreed by us.
From the above, its clear Mr Gs residing address is relevant to the terms and conditions of 
his policy. I acknowledge his view that its the location where the car is garaged, which is of 
relevance. But this shows Mr Gs residing address is also relevant and necessary 
information. The terms are clear that he must notify IFL if or when his circumstances change. 
The terms of business document, relating to Mr Gs policy, says a £30 adjustment fee is 
payable in the event of changes to the policy. As Mr G was required to update his address 
details when he moved home  its correct to say that a fee applied. 
Mr G suggested to IFL that he could pay the full premium and not incur the admin fee. He 
feels the fee is unreasonable, particularly given the relatively low cost of his annual premium. 
I can sympathise with his point here given the annual premium is less than £100. But the 
terms of the policy are clear that a fee is payable in these circumstances. Payment of the 
premium, whether this is in instalments or in one amount doesnt impact on the validity of the 
administration fee. 
I have listened to the call recordings provided. Mr G makes it clear he wont be paying the 
admin fee and wants to cancel the policy. IFLs representative attempts to go through the 
cancellation process, but Mr G refused and ended the call. 
Because IFL knew Mr G had changed address and wasnt prepared to update this and pay 
the required fee - it confirmed the policy would be cancelled in seven days time. Final 
confirmation of the cancellation was sent seven days later. 
IFL has shown that its emails were sent and received. I note Mr Gs comments that he 
disregarded these emails due to the way they were presented. I acknowledge his comments, 
but the emails do have the companys name in the email address. The subject line also 
includes the company name and the instruction, Attention Required. From this Im satisfied 
emails were received, and I think its reasonable to expect Mr G had the opportunity to read 
this information. 
The response IFL sent to Mr Gs complaint explained why the address update was needed. 
It also confirmed the admin charge was payable in line with the policy terms. It advised a 
cancellation notice had been sent and Mr G should make contact before the date advised to 
make the address change or complete the cancellation. As he didnt make contact to update 
the address or go through the cancellation process, the policy was cancelled. I have also thought about Mr Gs comments that he didnt know the policy had automatically 
renewed, and what impact this couldve had. 
IFL says the policy was first taken out in 2017 and has renewed each year through to 2021. I 
have seen the renewal email that was sent in the early part of May 2021. This includes the 
confirmation, your insurance will automatically renew on the renewal date. As mentioned 
earlier this includes the subject line, Lancaster Insurance: Attention Required.
A follow up email was sent at the end of May, which included policy documentation in 
preparation of the renewal date at the beginning of June. Based on this I think its fair to say 
that notice was provided of the policy renewal and Mr G would reasonably have known his 
policy renewed each year. 
IFL did make an error when it calculated the final balance. It explains the time on cover 
charge should have been £28 not £33.58. It says this is made up of the minimum charge, as 
the policy had only been in force for less than a month, which is £25 plus the insurance 
premium tax. The final balance therefore includes the arrangement fee (£49.50) and the time 
on cover charge (£28) giving a total of £77.50. IFL has deducted the cancellation fee 
component, which was £39.22, as a gesture of goodwill. 
I understand Mr G has also paid a monthly premium in July 2021. IFL says this is because 
the collection process had begun before the policy cancelled. The company says it will 
refund this directly or deduct it from the amount owing. I think this is fair. 
In considering all of this, I think IFL has behaved fairly in relying on the terms of its policy 
when applying an administration fee, and ultimately cancelling the cover. But I dont think it 
was fair when incorrectly calculating the final balance. Because of this I am upholding Mr Gs 
complaint in part.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and Insurance Factory Ltd trading 
as Lancaster Insurance Services should:
contact Mr G to either refund the final monthly premium or deduct this from the final 
remaining balance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman