DRN-3961848
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited mishandled her claim on a motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a cabriolet car which Mrs B had from 
new in 2013.
For the year from the end of  October 2021, Mrs B insured the car on a comprehensive 
policy with Ageas. 
Unfortunately, in late October 2022, an incident with standing water damaged the car. Ageas 
said it was a total loss. Ageas gave an initial valuation, then said that the car had been worth 
£10,960.00.
Mrs B complained to Ageas that it was under-valuing the car.
By a final response dated early November 2022, Ageas turned down the complaint. 
Mrs B brought her complaint to us in mid-December 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
valuation was unfair.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The fundamental principle of insurance is to place the insured in the position they 
were in prior to the accident/event.
The industry guides do not cover cars such as hers - such incredibly low mileage for 
its year and in such excellent condition with only one owner from new.
It has not been possible for her to find such a car for sale. 
The use of industry guides that average values is inappropriate in this circumstance.
The insurer has not handled her complaint satisfactorily or fairly, dismissing it out of 
hand within a matter of hours.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. We investigate individual complaints against regulated financial firms about 
regulated activities and ancillary activities. Unfortunately, complaints-handling is not in itself 
a regulated activity.
Most motor insurance policies cover a claim up to the pre-incident market value of the 
vehicle, subject to an excess. Subject to the excess, the pre-incident market value puts the 
policyholder back in the financial position they were in before the incident.
We expect insurers to value used cars by reference to the retail figures in certain trade 
guides. We usually find such figures persuasive because they are based on extensive 
research of likely selling prices.
We will look at any other evidence including engineers reports and advertisements for sale. 
However, compared to the trade guides, we usually find advertisements less persuasive 
because they contain asking prices that may be negotiated downwards.
Ive seen an engineers report on Mrs Bs car after the incident. The report includes 
photographs of the car. One of those shows the odometer reading of about 58,000 miles. 
The report gave a pre-accident value of £10,500.00.
Ive noted the make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition of Mrs Bs car. Im 
satisfied that the trade guides take all such factors into account. So the trade guides provide 
a figure for a car like Mrs Bs, not just an average including cars with, for example, higher 
mileage.
For a car like hers at the time of the accident, Ive seen retail figures in the trade guides as 
follows: 
CAP £10,350.00
Cazoo £11,030.00
Glasss £11,160.00
Autotrader £11,446.00
I dont consider that any of those figures is out of line with the others. And the figure of 
£10,960.00 is within the range of those figures. So I dont consider that Ageas treated Mrs B  
unfairly by that valuation.
I accept that Ageas gave its final response without waiting for further evidence from Mrs B. 
However, I havent found the final response unfair. So Im satisfied that Ageas dealt with the 
claim fairly. 
I cant say that Ageas handled the complaint unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Ageas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman