DRN-2899101
The complaint
Mrs R says ReAssure Limited gave her unsuitable advice when it recommended she 
contract-out of the state earnings related pension scheme (SERPS) into a personal pension 
plan.
Mrs R is represented by Fair Return Legal Service Limited (FR).
What happened
Mrs R received advice from Gan Life. It was subsequently taken over by Winsor Life in 1998, 
and this entity was rebranded as ReAssure. To keep matters straightforward Ill simply refer 
to ReAssure in my decision.
Mrs R was advised to contract-out of SERPS. She accepted the recommendation which was 
given effect from 6 April 1989. A personal pension plan was established into which any 
rebate from the then Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS), any tax adjustments 
from HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and her contributions, wouldve been paid.
I understand benefits were taken from the regular premium element of Mrs Rs pension plan 
from 17 November 2005. This was in the form of tax-free cash (TFC) of about £622 with the 
residual sum of £1,865 being used to set up an annuity on a joint life basis, guaranteed for 5 
years. This paid a benefit of £107 per month.
In February 2009, Mrs R accessed the protected rights element of her pension (somewhat 
before her state pension age). She was paid about £489 in TFC and the residual £2,033 was 
used to purchase an annuity.
FR complained to ReAssure in March 2020 about the advice Mrs R had been given in 1989. 
It had several concerns. For example, it said she now had a significantly lower income in 
retirement because of contracting out of SERPS. It said shed been switched from a pension 
arrangement with protections to one where she was exposed to stock market risk.
FR says Mrs R wasnt informed about the risks and costs associated with the personal 
pension. And it says ReAssure failed to adhere to the regulatory requirements of the time. 
ReAssure provided Mrs R with its final response in April 2020. Essentially it said that as her 
policies had ended 11 years earlier it no longer had any paperwork. It provided her with a 
questionnaire to complete which would provide information about her situation at the time. It 
said it would review her case again on receipt of the information. But it said there was 
nothing to indicate that the policy she was sold was inappropriate.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with the response from ReAssure so she brought her complaint to this 
Service. An Investigator considered her case but didnt uphold it. She thought given the 
prevailing criteria for contracting-out of SERPS at the time of the events complained about, 
there was no evidence to suggest the advice shed received was unsuitable.
In rejecting the Investigators view FR said:
Income and age are not the most important factors in this case. There can be no 
reasonable doubt that, when being advised to give up guaranteed, inflation-protected 
retirement income, risk capacity and being warned of the risk of a reduced income 
throughout retirement are more important factors than age and earnings.
It is clear that it was not explained to [Mrs R] that she could end up with a lower retirement 
income, rather than a higher one, as a result of the advice. If she had been given the 
appropriate warnings, she would not have accepted the advice to contract out of SERPS.
FR went on to reference the Pension Review and said the regulator had recognised that in 
most cases giving up guaranteed benefits in favour of personal pensions linked to the stock 
market was bad advice. 
As Mrs Rs complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me to review 
afresh and issue a final decision. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The events complained about happened in 1989. And its perhaps inevitable given the 
passage of a third of a century that I dont have perfect information to review. Im also 
mindful of the dynamic regulatory position over that time. The way things must be done 
today isnt necessarily the way things could be done 33 years ago.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The advice was provided to Mrs R in 1989. At the time, the code issued by the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO) required that advisers:
- Exercised due skill, care and diligence and deal fairly with investors.
- Gave best advice, including giving the investor all relevant information and using 
best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks 
involved.
- Should have regard, in particular, to the investors financial position generally, to any 
rights they may have under SERPS and to use best endeavours to ensure that only 
those contracts which are suited to that investor were recommended.
Ive had regard to these obligations in thinking about Mrs Rs case.Many consumers were advised to contract out of SERPS around the time Mrs R received 
her advice because the assumed growth of a private pension and the annuity rates available 
indicated there was a reasonable prospect theyd be better off at retirement. Unfortunately, 
factors affecting the whole sector including lower investment returns, lower annuity rates and 
changes in life expectancy, led to significantly reduced prospects for pension plans like the 
one she held.
I can appreciate why Mrs R might feel shes lost out in some way because of the advice she 
followed. But even if she might now be worse off having contracted out of SERPS, that 
doesn't necessarily mean the advice she received at the time was unsuitable. It's important 
complaints like this are assessed based on what was known or reasonably assumed at the 
time; not what is now known with the benefit of hindsight.
When a person was contracted-out, the DHSS would transfer National Insurance 
contributions normally paid into SERPS to a private pension provider. To encourage people 
to leave SERPS, during the early years the Government also paid a further incentive 
payment into contracted-out personal pension plans until 1993.
One of the benefits of the contracted-out personal pension plan was that growth potential 
wasnt limited by state provisions or restrictions. But future investment performance couldnt 
be guaranteed and the benefits payable werent known until just before benefits were taken.
Mrs Rs age at the time the advice was given is important. That's because the growth that 
might have been achieved in a personal pension was affected by the length of time between 
each payment and her retirement age. The longer the money was invested, the more chance 
that she wouldve been better off by contracting out of SERPS. For consumers who were 
closer to retirement it was generally more sensible for them to remain in SERPS.
For this reason, firms like ReAssure set what were called 'pivotal ages'  this was essentially 
the maximum age for men and women below which they might expect to be better off by 
contracting out of SERPS.
The amount a consumer earned at the time the advice was given is also an important 
consideration. That's because someone who only paid a small amount of National Insurance 
would receive a very small rebate from the DHSS. And the charges on a personal pension 
would make it unlikely that these individuals would be better off in retirement.
For this reason, firms also often set a minimum earning level  this was essentially the 
minimum amount a person could earn above which they might expect to be better off by 
contracting out of SERPS.
At the relevant time Mrs R received the advice, ReAssures pivotal age for women was 36 
and the minimum earnings limit was £2,132. Mrs R was 34 at the time the advice was given. 
ReAssure couldnt confirm what her income was in 1989. But it did note her personal 
pension policy received National Insurance contributions from inception until benefits were 
drawn. As no contributions were payable on earnings below £41 a week in 1989, it 
suggested her income exceeded Gans threshold.
Its likely Mrs R wouldve also benefited from a 2% enhancement on her SERPS rebates 
(until 1993). She was also able to re-join SERPS in the future. So, I dont think it was 
reasonably foreseeable at the time the advice to contract-out was likely to leave her worse 
off.I note that in responding to Mrs Rs complaint, ReAssure invited her to complete a 
questionnaire providing information about her situation in 1989. That wouldve covered 
matters such as her income. I understand no response was provided to ReAssure.
Some of the assertions made by FR on behalf of Mrs R, for example that she now has a 
significantly lower income in retirement because of contracting-out of SERPS havent been 
evidenced. And while Ive no reason to doubt her recollections of the advice process are 
provided in good faith, Im mindful that memories can and do fade over time. The events in 
question happened over 30 years ago.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not the advice Mrs R received 
in 1989 met the key criteria in place for recommending contracting out of SERPS into a 
personal pension plan. These factors mitigated some of the risk she was exposed to.
I appreciate Mrs R now feels she may have lost out because of what happened. But based 
on the criteria and what was known and reasonably assumed at the time, there was a 
reasonable prospect that she wouldve been better off by contracting out. And the advice she 
received was in line with that likelihood.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman