DRN-2726038
The complaint
Mr J complains of poor workmanship when having his boiler fixed by Great Lakes Insurance 
SE caused damage to his kitchen cupboards and appliances. 
Reference to Great Lakes includes parties acting on its behalf in relation to the claim and the 
complaint.  
  
What happened
Mr J has a home emergency policy with Great Lakes. In July 2019 he claimed under the 
policy when his boiler stopped working. The attending engineer found the pump and flow 
sensor needed replacing. The work was completed a few days later. 
In October 2019, Mr J discovered his boiler was leaking which had caused damage to 
various parts of his kitchen. A claim was made under the policy for the leak and the 
attending engineer advised that a clip hadnt been tightened correctly in July 2019, which 
had caused the leak. And as a result of this more sensors needed replacing. Again the work 
was completed a few days later. 
Mr J made a complaint about the damage that had been caused. Great Lakes issued a final 
response not upholding the complaint. It had asked another engineer to review the reports 
produced in July and October 2019 by the attending engineers, and commissioned a 
technical review of the claim. The engineer concluded a loose clip was unlikely to have 
caused the damage as it would have been more immediate rather than three months later; 
they concluded the likely cause of the leak was a lack of maintenance of the appliance and it 
having excess sludge. 
Our investigator was more persuaded by the attending engineers conclusions about the 
cause of the leak as the technical reviewer hadnt actually inspected the boiler or the 
damage caused and had noted the boiler had been serviced. And so he upheld the 
complaint and asked Great Lakes to reimburse Mr Js outlay in having the damage fixed - 
£920  to repair kitchen cupboards and to replace a thermostat and a cooker. 
Great Lakes has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It considers the 
technical review carried out to be compelling and it was that engineers professional opinion 
that poor workmanship in July 2019 would have manifested itself far sooner. It argues Mr J 
hasnt provided any evidence to counter this view. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Great Lakes has already accepted both claims in relation to the boiler breaking down, and 
repairs have been carried out. My consideration is whether or not Great Lakes properly 
indemnified Mr J for the damage caused in July 2019 by carrying out an adequate repair; 
and if it didnt what it needs to do to put that right. 
In July 2019, an engineer replaced a pump and a flow sensor. At the time, the engineer 
completed a contractor attendance certificate.  Amongst others, this certificate asked a 
number of questions including whether there was any sludge, or evidence of it. The engineer 
indicated not. 
In October 2019, Mr J found the boiler to be leaking; which he says caused further damage 
to parts of his kitchen. Great Lakes sent out an engineer. The contractor attendance 
certificate said:
Leak coming from the underneath of the boiler  had to turn the boiler off as is it 
going through the electrics [sic] 
and
advised prev engineer that attend fitted pump but not tightened up clip which has 
flooded boiler  engineer on site today as resolved issue and advised need 2 new 
NTC sensors & possibly new Aqua Sensor. 
However, engineer has tried to dry out boiler with hair dryer & advised that this may 
resolve issue but could be intermittent problem. 
Importantly, I note from this certificate that the attending engineer also reported no sludge or 
evidence of it.
I accept that Great Lakes arranged for an engineer to independently review Mr Js claim for 
damage which was a positive step to take. I also accept this review does go into a lot of 
detail and concludes that the likely cause of the leak was a lack of maintenance and the 
appliance having excess sludge. However, I dont find this report persuasive  this engineer 
didnt inspect the boiler, although by that point it had been repaired  and he didnt inspect 
the damage despite, as I understand it, this being offered by Mr J. And I dont think I could 
fairly ignore that both attending engineers  who actually carried out repairs and so 
inspected the boiler  reported there was no presence or evidence of sledge. I find it unlikely 
that two different engineers would both be wrong about that. 
Further, I note the second engineer had found the cause of the leak to be a loose clip. Whilst 
Great Lakes has said the comments by the second engineer were speculative and made 
without technical support, Im not persuaded by this either. There is nothing in the report that 
indicates the engineer was speculating about the cause of the leak. And Im unsure as to 
why it believes an engineer it considers sufficiently qualified to carry out the work (as it 
employed them to carry out repairs) would need further technical support to identify the 
cause of a leak. Afterall, this is the kind of work that I would expect such engineers to be 
carrying out every day. In the absence of a persuasive reason why I should discount this 
engineers findings, I consider them more reliable than the later technical desk-top review. 
I have considered that a loose clip could manifest itself much sooner, but that is dependent 
on how loose it was to start with. It seems entirely conceivable that it was tight enough that 
the leak wasnt prominent to begin with and it worked looser over time. As such, based on 
the evidence before me, I find the October 2019 attending engineers cause of the leak most 
persuasive. Therefore I find the most likely cause of the leak was poor workmanship 
following the July 2019 claim and that led to the damage caused to Mr Js property.
 
It follows that not only wasnt Mr J properly indemnified under the terms of the policy for the 
claim made in July 2019, but that the inadequate repair caused damage to his property. 
Great Lakes hasnt disputed any of the damage was caused by the leak, just the cause of 
the leak itself. Mr J has provided invoices for repairs to his kitchen totalling £920 which I find 
should be reimbursed.  And as Mr J has lost the use of that money on other expenditure, I also require it to add 8% simple annual interest from the date of the invoices to the date of 
settlement as is our standard approach. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Great 
Lakes Insurance SE to reimburse Mr Js costs to repair the damage totalling £920. It should 
also add 8% simple interest per annum to those costs from the date of Mr Js outlay to the 
date of settlement.   
If Great Lakes considers its legally required to deduct income tax from the interest, it must 
send a tax deduction certificate if Mr J asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman