DRN-3513437
The complaint
Ms J complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) have unfairly 
handled a claim made under her buildings insurance.
Any reference to LV includes any agents, representatives or contractors unless specified.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
In March 2021 Ms J made a claim on her buildings insurance following a fire at a 
neighbours property.
Around this time, Ms J appointed her own loss assessor (Company O) to handle the 
claim for her. In May 2021 Ms J contacted LV to raise concerns about Company O 
and on 1 June 2021 she told it she no longer wished for Company O to act on her 
behalf. LV disputed this, saying it wasnt told this until August 2021.
Ms J complained to LV. She said it hadnt progressed the claim as it shouldve, and 
that repairs were still outstanding. She also felt the arranged alternative 
accommodation (AA) was poor. Subsequently she moved into a caravan.
LV provided its response in November 2021. It agreed delays and poor 
communication had taken place. But said this was on the part of Company O and its 
own network, not LV.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She agreed the delays and communication issues were not the fault of LV. And that it 
had progressed the claim since Company O was removed in August 2021. 
Ms J said LVs loss adjusters (Company Q) had failed to give her updates or 
information across the period, not just Company O. She provided evidence to show 
LV was aware she had de-instructed Company O from 1 June 2021. She also 
referenced other issues, including LV contacting a relative of hers instead of her by 
mistake, and that it sent policy renewal details to Company O even though it knew 
her relationship with it had ended.
The Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. So, the complaint was 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision. I asked LV to consider the evidence Ms 
J had provided and said this suggested LV was responsible for any issues in 
progression from June 2021 onwards as a result. I also said it hadnt provided detail 
of events between September 2021 until 25 November 2021  the date of its final 
response letter  to demonstrate it had continued to progress matters. So, I said 
there appeared to be delays. And I asked LV to provide clarity on its position on AA.
LV reviewed this and agreed it had been told of Company Os removal from June 
2021. It said Ms J had moved back to her property of her own choice. It also said any 
out of pocket expenses (in lieu of paying for rental property) were yet to be quantified 
or agreed.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 22 April 2022. Ive included part of my 
findings below.
This matter was still ongoing when the complaint was brought to this Service. So, as our 
Investigator has outlined previously, I will only be considering events that took place up until 
25 November 2021 when LV issued its final response letter.
Alternative accommodation and ongoing issues
Ms J is seemingly still in communication with LV about costs and snagging issues. As 
these matters are ongoing, I dont intend on commenting on each of them at this 
time. I say this as many of these matters are ongoing beyond 25 November 2021.
I agree that LV is not responsible for the quality of AA arranged by Company O as it 
was not an agent of LV.
LV has paid towards the allegedly unsuitable AA upon the instruction of Company O, 
so I dont expect it to do anything further as its met its obligation to settle this part of 
the claim as it was required to.
LV has acknowledged that the AA limit under the policy has not been exhausted. And 
that it will consider any out of pocket expenses in lieu of Ms J electing to live at her 
property or in a caravan. Im satisfied this is fair for it to do. Although if there is still an 
ongoing need for AA at this time, Id expect LV to consider this. And should there be 
a dispute later down the line about this matter when it has reached a conclusion on 
any expenses, this may something Ms J could refer to this Service.
Claims handling
ICOBS 8.1. requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly and to provide 
appropriate information on a claims progress. In this case, its clear to me that LV 
has not met these obligations, and that there are prolonged periods of delay.
LV has previously said this claim has been subject to delays, poor handling and poor 
communication. And it agreed this happened up until 4 August 2021, which was the 
date LV previously said it became aware Ms Js own loss assessor had been de-
instructed and took control of the claim away from Company O. 
LV now acknowledges that it (or at the very least, its agent) was aware from 1 June 
2021 that Company O was no longer acting for Ms J. It attributed this disagreement 
to a former agent not uploading this email to Ms Js file. I think this is a clear 
indication of poor communication between parties. I think it follows that LV is 
responsible for the delays and failures from this point onwards. 
LVs internal notes from July 2021 say have emailed [Company Q] as we have not 
had a claim update since May. This further shows communication issues and 
delays.
Having reviewed LVs timeline, there also appear to be gaps where the claim didnt 
progress for periods between August and November 2021. LVs been unable to 
explain these gaps, so Im satisfied these were unnecessary delays.
Ive also considered Ms Js circumstances and health (of which the details are known 
to LV). LV has said it only became aware of these particular details from September 
2021. Even if this was the case, this doesnt lighten the impact or significance of its 
mistakes and errors on her personally  nor explain the errors or gaps in progression 
after this date. And I think the medical conditions of the nature Ms J has suffered, 
would increase the impact a delay and living away from home could have. Overall, Im satisfied LV hasnt met its obligation to handle the claim promptly, and its 
communication has been lacking in places. Taking all of this into account, alongside 
Ms Js other concerns about the service provided, I think LV needs to pay Ms J 
compensation to put things right.
And for these reasons, I said I was minded to direct LV to pay Ms J £500 in compensation 
for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it has caused her. Both parties have now 
responded to this decision. LV agreed but Ms J didnt. Ive included a summary of her 
response below.
Ms J said Company O had told her to stay in her own home for a night, and that 
further AA would be arranged the next day  which never happened. So, she hadnt 
voluntarily moved back to her home. 
She also moved into the caravan in October 2022 after being told by LV the required 
works would prevent her from staying  and highlighted LV hadnt offered further AA.
Ms J questioned why LV did not take an interest in whether the Company O arranged 
AA was suitable in light of it paying for it.
She felt the compensation sum awarded wasnt sufficient in light of the 
circumstances. 
Ms J also asked if I could direct LV to settle all remaining invoices, and if I had been 
given all of the evidence that she had provided.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im still upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive taken on board Ms Js comments about Company O not arranging AA as it said it 
would. While this may be the case, I am only considering LVs actions. And this type 
of alleged inaction from Company O isnt something I intend to hold LV responsible 
for as Company O simply wasnt an agent of LV.
As Ive outlined, LV will consider any out of pocket expenses incurred in lieu of Ms J 
electing to live at her property or in a caravan. Im still satisfied this is fair for it to do. 
And Id expect it to reconsider Ms Js need for AA if the current accommodation isnt 
suitable, subject to the policys terms and conditions.
I understand Ms J feels LV shouldve taken greater interest in the accommodation 
sourced by Company O. But in the circumstances, I dont think this wouldve been a 
reasonable expectation of LV, and that its decision to agree to costs outlined by Ms 
Js loss assessor was fair in the circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about the impact of this claim on Ms J, but for the reasons Ive 
previously given, Im satisfied the compensatory sum of £500 is fair and reasonable 
and Im not increasing this.
I assure Ms J Ive reviewed all of the evidence provided by both parties when 
reaching my decision. And for the reasons given previously, I will not comment on the 
remaining invoices or ongoing matters, mainly due to these issues going on past the 
date of LVs final response in November 2021.My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding this complaint.
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited must pay Ms J £500 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it has caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman