DRN-3625597
The complaint
Mr R complaints that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr R applied for and received three loans from Everyday. 
Date Amount Repayment Term
Loan 1 October 2015 £3,311 £265.70 24 months
Loan 2 February 2017 £5,000 £309.25 36 months
Loan 3 August 2017 £7,500 £404.69 36 months
Mr R says Everyday didnt conduct thorough enough checks despite the increasing size of 
the loans. He says he was regularly using his overdraft and couldnt afford to make the 
repayments.
Everyday looked into his complaint. It said during the application process, it had checked 
Mr Rs credit file, one months bank statement and payslips, and carried out an employment 
check. It had used statistics to calculate his monthly expenditure and was confident Mr R 
had sufficient disposable income to repay each of the loans at the time they were granted. 
Everyday rejected Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R was unhappy with Everydays response, so he referred it to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint and upheld it in part. He said on balance that he felt it 
was not unreasonable for Everyday to have agreed Loan 1 based on the evidence available. 
But he felt Loans 2 and 3 were unaffordable for Mr R so should not have been agreed. Our 
investigator explained how he felt Everyday should put matters right for Mr R.
Everyday didnt agree with all that our investigator said. It agreed to uphold Mr Rs complaint 
about Loan 3, but said it felt Loan 2 had been lent reasonably. Mr R didnt respond to our 
investigators opinion of the complaint but did reject Everydays offer to settle just on Loan 3. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties have accepted Loan 3 should be upheld, Ill not comment further on that 
loan. Instead, Ill focus my decision on Loans 1 and 2 which remain in dispute.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint. 
Everyday had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. That means he should be able to repay what he 
borrowed without undue difficulty, while being able to meet other commitments and without 
having to borrow further. Its not about Everyday assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, 
but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
There are key questions I need to consider in order to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R was in a position to sustainably repay the loan?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr R in some other way?
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower. Ive mentioned above, Everyday set out the 
checks it carried out on Mr Rs applications in its final response letter, so Ill not repeat that.
Loan 1
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Mr R applied for Loan 1 to repay two credit cards and raise £1,000 for some equipment he 
wanted to buy. Everydays credit file check showed the two credit cards he wished to repay 
were up to date, but that he had one account in default from 2012. 
Everyday saw four weeks payslips from Mr R which show a regular weekly income of just 
over £400. His bank statement showed his wages being paid in and an overdraft of £250 
which he used regularly. He exceeded the limit in the month prior to this loan with his 
balance reaching almost double the agreed limit.
So there does seem to have been some pressure on Mr Rs finances which Id have 
expected Everyday to look into a little more in order to ensure he could sustainably repay the 
loan. Ive seen no evidence that it asked any further questions, so Im not persuaded it 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Loan 1. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 
Our investigator asked Mr R to provide more information regarding his finances at the time 
Loan 1 was taken  for example by providing bank statements covering a greater period. But 
Mr R was unable to provide any.
Ive seen Mr Rs weekly payslips from the month leading up to the loan and Ive seen that 
money going into his account. As Ive mentioned the majority of his expenditure appears to 
be discretionary, and he was repaying some existing debts which will have simplified his 
finances to some extent.
Given Mr Rs expenditure appears to have been largely discretionary and in the absence of any further evidence, I cant reasonably say with any degree of certainty that Loan 1 was 
unaffordable for him. It follows that I cant reasonably say that Everyday reached an unfair 
decision to lend Loan 1 to Mr R. I dont uphold his complaint about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Did Everyday carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Mr R settled Loan 1 with a lump sum payment on 4 November 2016 and took Loan 2 on 
7 February 2017  just three months later. Loan 2 was for £5,000, £4,000 of which was for 
debt consolidation and £1,000 for a holiday.
When hed applied for Loan 1, Mr Rs credit file had showed he had approximately £2,600 
worth of credit. By the time he applied for Loan 2, his credit file showed a loan of £4,000 and 
three revolving credit facilities totalling almost £1,800. 
So it seems Mr Rs situation had worsened since Loan 1 and he was seeking to increase his 
indebtedness by borrowing new money over and above the amount he wanted for 
consolidation. Mr Rs bank statement showed he was still using his overdraft facility and 
exceeded it on occasion.
So I think in this instance, Everyday had sufficient information to understand that Mr Rs 
financial situation was worsening and this ought to have led to a more detailed look into his 
circumstances.
Mr Rs payslips for the period Everyday checked showed his income varied between £400 
and £566 weekly. Everyday calculated that to mean he had an average monthly income of 
£1,776. I note that Everyday relied on statistics to calculate Mr Rs expenditure  using a 
figure of 35% of his income  so it felt he could afford the loan. But that assumes Mr Rs 
expenditure was in line with the average and fluctuated along with his pay, and that hed 
continue to receive some weeks of higher pay  nearing the £560 mark  rather than his 
basic pay of £400.
But Mr Rs indebtedness had more than doubled since his previous application. He was 
using around 70% of his available credit on his revolving credit facilities and regularly 
exceeded his overdraft. So Id have thought Everyday would have wanted to check in more 
detail that Mr R could afford the loan. Ive seen no evidence it did. 
Mr R paid rent of £550 per month and Everyday calculated his expenditure (using the 
statistics mentioned above) to be £621. The repayments due on this loan were £309, leaving 
£306 to cover his other credit commitments and emergency spending etc. Everyday used a 
figure of 3% of the balance as a monthly payment to his revolving credit facilities. The rules 
lenders must follow with regards to revolving credit (set by the regulator and detailed in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section 5.3.1) say lenders should consider the 
borrowers ability to repay the maximum amount of credit in a reasonable time. I think 3% 
repayments are unlikely to have enabled Mr R to do that. 
So Everyday would have been aware that Mr Rs income was variable week on week and 
his budget was tight given the figures it had assumed were correct. But his credit situation 
had worsened between Loans 1 and 2 and he was increasing his indebtedness. I think given 
what it knew, Everyday ought to have identified Mr R was relying on credit and so should 
have realised that Mr R would be unlikely to be able to repay the loan on a sustainable 
basis. Therefore, I think Everyday didnt reach a fair decision when it agreed to lend to Mr R. 
Loan 3As Ive already said, this loan is no longer in dispute, so I dont propose to comment further. 
For the sake of completeness however, I have included this loan in the next section 
regarding what Everyday should do to put matters right. 
Putting things right
When we uphold a complaint, we normally direct businesses  as far as is reasonably 
practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistakes it 
made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr R in the position he would 
now be in if he hadnt been given loans 2 and 3. 
But Mr R has been lent the money and has used it, so its right he should pay it back. But I 
dont think Everyday should benefit through interest and charges on the loans. So, I think 
Everyday should:
1. Calculate and refund all the interest and charges Mr R has paid to date on loans 2 
and 3.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, it should reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Everyday should 
ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or charges and reach 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr R. But if Step 2 leads to a credit balance, the 
amount in question should be given back to Mr R and 8% simple interest* should be 
added to the surplus.
4. Everyday should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file as a 
result of the interest and charges on loan 2 and 3.
*If Everyday considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans should put matters right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman