DRN-4086055
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) closed her accounts without any notice. She
is also unhappy with the service she received following the accounts being closed.
What happened
The key facts of this complaint are known to both sides, so I will summarise the background
below.
Ms S was abroad recuperating from a serious health condition, when on 4 December 2020
she tried to log on to her online banking but couldnt. On the same day her Santander credit
card was declined when trying to make a purchase. Then on 7 December she received a
text message to say one of her direct debits had been declined for insufficient funds. It was
at this point that she contacted Santander  which she says was difficult from abroad  and
was told her accounts had been closed and she should receive letters with more detail.
Ms S asked a relative to attend her home address in the UK to collect the letters. These
explained her accounts had been closed  or would be closed once the balances had been
cleared. This included her current account with the associated overdraft being recalled, her
ISA and her credit card. There was also a letter sent in July 2020 with a questionnaire
attached, asking for information about her accounts.
Ms S has explained that at the time of the closure she was stranded abroad due to the
Covid-19 pandemic and her medical situation, so being without her accounts made her
situation extremely difficult. She had numerous Direct Debits attached to her current
account, all of which went unpaid in December 2020, including one for her Santander loan.
Shes explained that because she couldnt log into her online banking, and calling was
extremely difficult at the time, she didnt know the relevant details to ensure her loan
payment was made. This resulted in a missed payment marker being applied to her credit
file.
Ms S complained, but Santander just explained that it wouldnt be able to unblock the
account or allow any payments to made. Ms S says that because Santander effectively
refused to enter into any meaningful conversations about her account situation  and her
increasing worry about her financial situation  she instructed a solicitor to act on her behalf.
Over the next six months there was ongoing communication about how Ms S could make
payments to clear her credit card and overdraft balances, with Santander eventually
agreeing to unblock her accounts for one day in June 2021. At this point Ms S cleared the
balances. Santander then officially closed the accounts and said it would ensure no adverse
information was recorded against the credit card and current account.
During this time Ms S also sent Santander a completed copy of the questionnaire it had sent
her back in July 2020. But this didnt change Santanders decision to close the account.
Ms S has explained this has impacted her financially due to the numerous missed payments,
some of which resulted in adverse information being recorded on her credit file. She says
this led to her credit card providers reducing her credit limits. It also had a detrimental impact
on her physical and mental health, as well as costing her money in having to instruct a
solicitor to act on her behalf. She would like compensation for all of the above and her costs
covered, as well as knowing the reason for the account closures.
Santander has explained that it was entitled to close Ms Ss accounts and doesnt have to
give a reason for doing so.
Ms S referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He
said that every bank has their own criteria and risk assessment when choosing to offer
accounts and it doesnt have to provide a reason when it chooses to close an account. He
was satisfied Santander had done the right thing in removing the adverse information
reported to the credit reference agencies but didnt think any further action was needed.
Ms S didnt agree. In summary she said the following:
The investigators opinion didnt consider the full and correct facts of the complaint.
Santander didnt provide the necessary time and notice for her to rearrange her
finances.
Ms S pointed out that Santander has an obligation to treat customers fairly and
communicate with them in a way that is clear and not misleading. However, she
received numerous pieces of conflicting information following the account closures.
Santander didnt provide any way to communicate other than on the phone.
There was no recognition of the suffering, distress, anxiety and inconvenience
caused by the actions of Santander in closing her account.
There was no consideration as to why Ms S wants to know the reason for the
closure, in that she wants to ensure her reputation, standing and credit rating have
not been damaged by Santanders actions.
Because Ms S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I asked Santander about the missed payment on Ms Ss credit file in relation to the loan
and it explained this wasnt included when it agreed to remove any adverse information in
July 2021. It was just the credit card and current account. However, it said its wiling to
remove the missed payment marker for the loan.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 1 March 2023. These were my findings:
Account closures
Firstly, I can understand why Ms S is so frustrated with the account closures and not
knowing the reason as to why. I appreciate she feels like shes been treated poorly and has
been severely impacted by Santanders actions, especially when taking into her account her
personal circumstances at the time. Id like to assure her I have thoroughly looked into why
her accounts were closed to check Santander did this fairly. And whilst she is going to be
disappointed, Im satisfied it did.
Its important to remember that Santander has a wide range of legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing account services to its customers. These obligations
are ongoing so dont just apply at account opening stage. To comply with these obligations,
it may need to review accounts and the activity taking place on them. Sometimes these
reviews will lead to the accounts being closed. If Santander didnt do this, it could risk
serious sanction.
Santander also has commercial discretion and can choose who it does business with, just as
Ms S can choose who to bank with. Of course, we expect Santander to use itscommercial discretion to make decisions free of prejudice and discrimination. And having
reviewed the reasons for the closures, Im satisfied in Ms Ss case it did this.
So, taking all this into account and reviewing the information Santander has provided, Im
satisfied it was entitled to close Ms Ss accounts. Understandably Ms S would like Santander
to tell her the reason for the closure, and I have taken her reasons for his into account.
However, it has no obligation to do so. This information is often commercially sensitive. So, it
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so or disclose the reasons myself.
Notice to close
Whilst Im satisfied Santander was entitled to close Ms Ss accounts, based on what Ive
seen I think it should have provided her with two months notice, rather than close her
accounts immediately.
However, its difficult for me to conclude Santander giving notice would have made a
difference here. I say this as Ms S is unlikely to have been aware of the notice period due to
not receiving her post  and this isnt something I can hold Santander responsible for as it
wasnt aware Ms S needed or wanted communication in a different way at that point. The
fact it sent the notices by post only isnt an error here. So, the situation Ms S found herself
in, in December 2020, would just have been repeated, but two months later when the notice
period expired.
With this in mind, Im satisfied that regardless of the notice period, Ms S would always have
had some of her regular payments bounce, specifically those around the closure date,
whether that be 4 December 2020 or 4 February 2021. And Ms S would still have had to
rearrange her regular payments after her accounts had been closed/blocked. I therefore
dont think compensation is warranted for the lack of notice and the impact this had on Ms S.
Customer service issues
Despite my conclusions above, I dont think Santander treated Ms S fairly in how it dealt with
her following her becoming aware of the account closures on 7 December 2020. Specifically,
the failure to help her settle her accounts in a timely manner and the confusing
correspondence that was sent as a result.
I should begin by explaining that whilst Santander took the decision to close Ms Ss
accounts, both her current account and credit card were technically still open in December
2020. Because they both had a negative balance they couldnt be officially closed down on
Santanders system, so were blocked until the balances were cleared. This is why
correspondence continued to be sent in relation to these accounts.
As early as her email to Santander on 9 December 2020, Ms S told it about her situation 
that being she was stranded abroad due to her ongoing health concerns and the Covid-19
pandemic. And in her letter of 30 December 2020, Ms S made it clear that calling from where
she was, was difficult and expensive  made worse by volcanic activity at the time.
Instead of Santander being proactive and recognising the difficult situation Ms S was in,
there was back and forth communication between Santander and Ms S (or her
representatives) between December 2020 and June 2021 where Ms Ss situation was
explained, and Santander continually told them Ms S needed to call the collections
departments to arrange a payment to clear her balances.
Santander has told me that Ms S needed to call collections so that they could arrange for the
blocks on her account to be lifted for long enough for her to make the payment. But this is
what Santander eventually agreed to do in June 2021 without the need for this phone call.So, I dont think it treated Ms S fairly in repeatedly telling her to call collections when it could
have arranged the block being lifted from the outset. This is especially the case knowing her
unique and challenging situation at the time. Given it was a benefit to Santander for the
debts to be cleared too, I cant see why this didnt happen and believe this would have been
the reasonable action to take here.
I can also see Santander sent Ms S various bits of confusing correspondence following its
notice to close the accounts and didnt tailor this to the situation. For example, the notice to
close for her current account mentioned that she needed to clear the overdrawn balance and
said that whilst debits had been blocked, she could make credits to clear the balance.
Santander then continued to send automated letters regarding the overdraft and credit card
balances, asking her to make payments via online banking. However, when Ms S attempted
to credit the account, this was rejected, with Santander subsequently confirming her account
couldnt accept credits. It also sent a default notice despite the ongoing communication
about how to make payments to clear the owed balances. Whilst I accept these were
automated letters, Santander should ensure accurate and clear information is being given
and it didnt do enough here to ensure Ms S was receiving communication tailored to the
situation around her account closure. And in any event, given what Ive concluded above
about Santander allowing Ms S to clear her balances sooner, a lot of this could and should
have been avoided from the outset.
Overall, I dont think Santander treated Ms S fairly in the way it dealt with her following the
closure of her accounts. It was clear she wanted to settle her accounts and was searching
for a reasonable way to do this given her situation. And whilst Im satisfied Santander did
nothing wrong in closing the accounts, I think it could have facilitated the repayment of
overdraft and credit card balances by the end of December 2020 and avoided months of the
confusion, worry and frustration Ms S faced in relation to this, at what was already an
extremely challenging time for her.
Santander said it is willing to remove the missed payment marker in relation to the loan.
Whilst Ive agreed Santander was entitled to close Ms Ss current account, Ive also
concluded communication could have been clearer and more tailored to Ms Ss situation.
She explained to Santander in December 2020 that she was struggling to obtain the
information to make her loan payment on time and she did attempt to pay money into her
account to cover this payment. I cant see Santander helped her with this in its response, so
I think in the circumstances its fair for this adverse information to be removed.
Whilst its difficult to conclude Ms Ss credit limits were reduced purely because of the
adverse information recorded by Santander; I think its fair to say the information would have
certainly had an impact on her credit rating. So, Ive taken this into account when deciding
on a fair award.
With all this in mind, I think Santander should make an award of £400 for the trouble and
upset caused.
Ms S has asked us to consider her solicitor costs be covered by Santander as she felt she
had no choice but to instruct them. But while I appreciate it was a frustrating and difficult time
for Ms S, and I understand why she decided to seek legal help, its not something I would
expect Santander to cover. Ultimately, it was Ms Ss choice to instruct a solicitor. Santander
did respond to her communication on 15 December 2020 - albeit not with the outcome Ms S
wanted - and let her know her right to complain to this service. Something she was able to
do free of charge. So, Im satisfied it was communicating with Ms S. It therefore wouldnt be
fair for me to ask Santander to cover these costs.
Santander responded and agreed with the provisional decision. Ms S responded and whilst happy her complaint had been upheld, she asked that I 
reconsider two points. 
Firstly, Ms S reiterated that if she would have had notice of the account closure this would 
have given her time to rearrange her regular payments, which totalled over 30. 
Ms S said she learned of the account closure on the phone on 7 December 2020 and had 
sight of the closure letter dated 4 December 2020, on 15 December 2020. She therefore 
maintains that had she had two months notice from the date of the closure letter, she would 
have been able to calmly rearrange all her regular payments. 
Secondly, Ms S maintains that her solicitors costs should be covered. She emphasised the 
fact she put significant effort into contacting Santander herself, via email, letter and chats, 
but the responses show it didnt want to enter into any meaningful communication with her. 
She pointed to an email from 15 December 2020 which said "Santander cannot allow any
transactions to take place at the current time. We are unable to provide an explanation at the 
current time. We will advise you if and when this situation changes. Ms S has said that 
when she subsequently got her solicitors involved it did at least move things along. She says 
that if she had not of engaged her solicitors, Santander would have ruined her with its 
aggressive debt collection procedure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms Ss comments about the notice period and as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I do agree that two months notice would have been appropriate in the 
circumstances. However, Im still of the opinion it wouldnt have made a difference to the 
inconvenience Ms S faced. 
Ms S has pointed out that she found out her accounts had been closed on 7 December 2020 
and subsequently therefore had someone check her post and saw the closure letter. She 
therefore thinks had notice been given in this letter, it would have prevented much of the 
stress she faced in having to rearrange her regular payments. However, the point here is 
that if Santander had given notice in this letter, Ms S wouldnt have ever been aware of it. 
The only reason for the call on 7 December 2020 was due to the issues Ms S had been 
experiencing because her accounts had already been closed or blocked until the debts could 
be cleared. For example, shed been unable to log onto online banking, her credit card 
payment was declined, and shed received a text message saying one of her direct debits 
had been declined.  
Had Santander done what I would expect and given Ms S two months notice in the letter 
dated 4 December 2020; she would never have been aware of the impending closure. I say 
this because her accounts would have continued to operate as usual, and she wouldnt have 
experienced any of the issues that prompted her to call in December 2020. So, she would 
have just faced all the above issues, but two months later. And by that point the notice would 
have expired, and she would still have had the time pressure of rearranging her regular 
payments. 
Because of this, I still cant agree that compensation should be paid to cover the 
inconvenience caused by the lack of notice. 
Ive considered Ms Ss comments in relation to her solicitors costs, and whilst I appreciate 
her strength of feeling on this point, Im still not able to direct Santander to cover these. I understand Ms Ss feelings around the lack of helpful or meaningful communication she had 
from Santander prior to instructing her solicitors. However, as I said in my provisional 
decision, Santander did address her complaint in a final response on 15 December 2020. 
This final response letter was sent the same day as the email she mentioned above. 
Although it may not have given the outcome or answers she wanted, it did refer her to this 
service. Ms S chose to instruct solicitors at a cost, instead of referring her complaint to us, 
free of charge. It wouldnt therefore be fair for Santander to cover these costs.  
To conclude, Im still of the opinion Santander was entitled to close Ms Ss account but 
should have provided her with two months notice. However, I dont think this would have 
made a difference in the circumstances, as explained above. I do, however, believe the 
service Santander provided fell below the standard I would expect following the closure. This 
led to late payment markers being recorded on Ms Ss credit file and her facing unnecessary 
trouble and upset. Whilst Im not in agreement Ms Ss solicitors costs should be covered, 
taking everything into account, Im satisfied the removal of the late payment marker for the 
loan and the £400 compensation, is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I direct Santander to do the following:
Pay Ms S £400
Remove the late payment marker in relation to Ms Ss loan if this hasnt already been 
done. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint against Santander UK Plc and direct it to 
carry out the settlement detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman