DRN-1952498
The complaint
Mr G complains Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd, trading as Cashplus, allowed a fraudster 
to open an account in his name.  He further complains about the loss he suffered as a result 
of a default being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr G discovered an account with Cashplus had been opened in his name 
and was being reported on his credit file.  He contacted Cashplus to adivse them of this  
but was told it would need a crime reference number from the police to investigate his claim.
Mr G says he contacted Cashplus again in May 2019 and then received a further letter about 
the debt in July 2019.  
In August 2019, Mr G came to this service and asked that we help him with his complaint. 
There were some delays in this service making contact with Cashplus, but ultimately, it 
logged Mr Gs complaint about the fraudulent account in November 2019.  Later that month, 
it issued its final response.  It accepted the account had been opened fraudulently and said it 
had done what was necessary to close the account and rectify the position Mr G found 
himself in.
But Mr G still wanted us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Cashplus could have done more.  In summary, he said the 
following:
-If proper checks had been carried out, Cashplus would have realised at the point of 
the application that the details provided did not match Mr Gs;
-It had also failed in its affordability checks  and had this been completed properly, it 
may have identified early on that it wasnt Mr G making the application;
-It had delayed in logging Mr Gs complaint as it unreasonably asked for a crime 
reference number before it investigated matters.
For these reasons, the investigator thought it should pay Mr G £150.  But Cashplus thought 
£75 was a more reasonable offer of settlement.  The matter was then passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigator is right  Cashplus could have done more and for very much the 
same reasons, I think the offer of £150 is a fair and reasonable one.
It was unreasonable of Cashplus to delay the investigation into Mr Gs complaint about the 
account.  A consumer does not have to report or support a criminal prosecution before a 
bank looks into such a complaint.  And I remind myself that the account had been opened for 
over a year before Cashplus decided it had been opened fraudulently.
And I think further checks with regards to Mr Gs details would have led it to conclude very 
early on that all was not right.  It failed to carry out these checks.
Mr G says he had an application for a loan refused because of the default on his credit file  
and I accept what he says.  But I think the £150 adequately convers any distress and 
inconvenience he has suffered here.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr G did chase Cashplus between March 2019 
and coming to this service in August 2019  so I dont think it would be fair to increase the 
redress.
Finally, whilst Mr G has not provided this service with his full credit file, it appears Cashplus 
has rectified matters and is no longer reporting the default.
Putting things right
Advanced Payment Solutions Ltd, trading as Cashplus, must pay Mr G £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman