DRN-3780491
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK plc wont pay him the compensation that hes claimed 
following repairs to his car. 
What happened
Mr D used his Santander credit card in August 2021 to pay £855.90 for some repairs to his 
car. He continued to have issues with the car so he contacted the garage and the car was 
booked in for more work but, before then and on his first journey in the car, the engine 
overheated and seized and he says that its not been possible to start the engine since then.
He claimed compensation from Santander under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It asked him to arrange for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. Mr D 
paid £166.20 for the car to be inspected in February 2022 but Santander said: We can't 
conclude that a breach of contract has occurred. This is because you have been unable to 
evidence that the failed repair has led to the vehicle breaking down further. The report you 
have provided is not conclusive and fails to establish that the [repair] was either not 
completed or completed to a poor standard. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that further 
faults arose 400 miles after Mr D had collected the vehicle and it wasnt clear that those 
faults were present at the point of diagnosis or as a result of the repairs. He said that the 
inspection didnt express that the faults were due to the repairs that took place. 
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says, in summary and amongst other things, that:
the central issue is whether a repair to a cylinder head gasket was carried out 
properly;
he sold the car for £850 as a non-runner and the buyer would be able to provide 
unequivocal evidence that there had been a serious breach of contract by the 
garage;
our investigator hasnt spoken with the buyer or the independent expert; and
theres clear evidence that the initial work, costing £855.90, and paid for on his 
Santander credit card, wasnt carried out satisfactorily by the garage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr D paid for the repairs using his Santander credit card and, in certain 
circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint about Santander, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the garage and that 
Santanders response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ds claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
the garages invoice for the repairs says: Head gasket. Remove all ancillaries, 
remove cylinder head and send for machining and pressure test. Broken bolts/studs 
removed by engineers. Supply and fit full cylinder head gasket set, timing cover 
gasket, inlet and exhaust manifold gaskets. Refit cylinder heads with new bolts. Oil 
and filter change carried out;
it recorded the cars mileage as 64,337 miles and noted: Thermostat faulty and 
compressions are low due to previous overheating;
Mr D says that he was immediately aware when he collected the car that there 
continued to be issues with it so he contacted the garage and the car was booked in 
for more work but he says that, before then and on his first journey in the car, the 
engine overheated and seized and that its not been possible to start the engine 
since then;
he made a claim to Santander and it asked him to arrange for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert;
the car was inspected by an independent expert in February 2022  the inspection 
report recorded the cars mileage as 64,737 miles and said:
In our opinion, this engine has over heated excessively and been driven until 
it has seized. The initial fault with the engine overheating has not been 
rectified. Had the car not have been driven to a standstill it may have been 
financially viable to continue with repairs on this engine. We would not 
advise[d] any further work is continued with this current engine due to the 
excessive temperatures it has reached. A full replacement engine is advised 
to ensure the vehicle is safe [and] reliable for continued use;
Mr D paid £166.20 for the car to be inspected and Santander paid him £225 to 
reimburse him for the cost of the inspection;
our investigator contacted the independent expert about his report and his note of the 
conversation says that  they don't have enough information to say that the repairs 
that took place beforehand had caused issues that consumer experienced with the 
car. He said the mileage was around 400 miles before it broke down again. But still 
couldn't clearly say the car previous repairs failed;
although Mr D says that there continued to be issues with the car after it had been 
repaired, the evidence shows that it was driven for 400 miles before the engine 
seized  and Im not persuaded that Mr D has provided enough evidence to show 
that the garage didnt do the work described on its invoice;
its clear that the cars engine has seized but the inspection report says that the car 
has been driven until the engine seized and, although it says that the engine 
overheating fault hasnt been rectified, it doesnt say that the repairs by the garage 
werent carried out correctly or that those repairs had caused the cars engine to 
seize  and, when contacted by our investigator, the expert said that they didnt have 
enough information to say that the repairs had caused the issues with the car;Mr D says that the buyer would be able to provide unequivocal evidence that there 
had been a serious breach of contract by the garage  but hes provided no evidence 
from the buyer (even after he was told that if he felt that the buyers testimony was 
important, he should ask them to provide evidence which would be reviewed);
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the garage in these circumstances and I consider 
that Santanders response to his section 75 was fair and reasonable;
Mr D has complained about the service that he received from Santander when 
dealing with his claim but Im not persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to 
show that the service that he received fell below a reasonably acceptable standard  
and Santander offered him £150 compensation which he declined; and
I sympathise with Mr D for the issues that hes had with his car but I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander to refund to him the 
money that the paid for the repairs, to pay him any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
My final decision 
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman