DRN-2175760
The complaint
After making a successful claim on her employers group income protection insurance policy, 
Miss G is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L & G) stopped 
paying the monthly benefit.
What happened
Miss G had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through her employer at 
the time, which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work sick for 26 
weeks (the deferred period). 
Miss G became absent from work in February 2017 as a result of work-related stress, 
generalised anxiety and low mood. A claim was made on the policy during the deferred 
period, which was accepted by L & G. It began to pay the monthly benefit with effect from 
September 2017, backdated to August 2017, when the deferred period ended. 
L & G continued to review Miss Gs claim. In early 2019, it commissioned an independent 
medical expert to meet with Miss G to discuss her prognosis. And in October 2019, L & G 
notified Miss Gs then employer, as the policyholder, that it would cease paying the monthly 
benefit in December 2019; it concluded that Miss G was no longer incapacitated as defined 
by the policy. It said that the primary cause of Miss Gs absence and symptoms were issues 
stemming from the workplace, which remained unresolved whilst Miss G continued to be 
absent from work. 
Miss G didnt think that was fair and appealed the decision. She provided further medical 
evidence in support of her appeal. Having considered the appeal, L & G maintained its 
position to stop paying the claim. 
Unhappy, Miss G complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Gs 
complaint; in light of all the evidence he didnt think L & Gs decision to stop paying the 
monthly benefit was unfair or unreasonable.  
Miss G disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L & G has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Miss G to demonstrate that she met the 
definition of incapacity. She was able to do this and thats why L & G paid the monthly 
benefit after the end of the deferred period.
As L & G has terminated the claim, its for it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that 
Miss G no longer met the definition of incapacity. 
Subject to the remaining terms of the policy, L & G will pay the monthly benefit if the insured 
member is a disabled member  which is defined as:
-Meeting the incapacity definition; and
-not being engaged in any other occupation, other than one which causes 
payment of a partial benefit in accordance with the policy.
Miss G wasnt engaged in any other occupation, so the crux of the issue I have to decide is 
whether L & G fairly and reasonably concluded at the end of 2019, that she no longer met 
the incapacity definition  which under the policy means:
incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents them from performing the 
essential duties of their occupation immediately before the start of the deferred 
period.
The focus, therefore, is very much on whether Miss G was still unable to perform the role 
she was doing immediately before she was absent from work because of illness (or injury). 
Im not a medical expert. So, Ive relied on all the evidence available to me when considering 
whether L & Gs decision to terminate Miss Gs claim was fair and reasonable on the basis 
that she was no longer incapacitated. Having done so, Im satisfied it was. Thats because:
The independent medical expert  a consultant clinical psychologist - instructed to 
meet with Miss G in March 2019 said Miss G reported that she had a demanding job 
and shed been under lot of pressure at work. And what may have started as work 
related stress had become problematically entrenched, partly due to the length of 
Miss Gs sick leave. It was reflected that Miss G felt negatively towards her employer 
and the pressure she had been put under at work. But the independent medical 
expert felt that a phased return to work could commence once Miss G was 
established in treatment (having attended around eight sessions). So, they 
recommended further treatment  which, I understand, L & G subsequently funded. 
The report from Miss Gs psychotherapist dated 27 August 2019 reflects that Miss G 
had activated the grievance process at work and had requested a negotiated exit 
from her employment. Miss G believed that an exit from her employment would be 
the most beneficial solution for her psychological recovery and Miss G was 
concerned that a return to work would significantly affect her mental health. Miss G 
was finding that continued contact with her employer was a significant barrier to her 
ability to focus on her recovery.  The psychotherapist also reflected that limited 
progress had been made with cognitive behavioural therapy as Miss G was occupied 
with thinking about work and, more latterly, the grievance process.
A further report from Miss Gs psychotherapist dated 29 October 2019 reflects that, 
due to the level of anxiety related to returning to work, it was difficult to foresee 
circumstances allowing for Miss G to return to work. And that the continued contact 
with her employer was still having a detrimental impact on Miss Gs psychological 
recovery. 
The letter provided by Miss G in support of her appeal by an occupational health 
physician dated December 2019, concluded that although Miss G wasnt fit for work, 
the situation within the workplace  as far as Miss G was concerned  had not 
resolved during her absence. And without such resolution there was little prospect of being able to help Miss G with her psychological recovery. Miss G was described as 
having a sense of embitterment towards her employer. 
The occupational health physician subsequently said in February 2020 - in response 
to further questions raised by L & G - that Miss G acknowledged her strong emotions 
regarding the workplace. So, it was likely she would need to see a resolution that felt 
fair to her before she could return to work (after having undergone further therapy to 
support her in this).
Ive also seen a report from a consultant psychiatrist dated March 2020  which Im 
conscious is a few months after L & G took the decision to stop paying the monthly benefit. 
The consultant psychiatrist met with Miss G and considered her medical history when 
preparing the report. So, I still think the contents are relevant to this complaint.  
The report reflects that Miss G said there had been issues at work before she was signed off 
sick by her GP. These included her workload becoming increasingly worse (there was too 
much work for the hours), the workplace becoming an unpleasant environment to work in 
because of team dynamics, a lack of management, support and unsatisfactory levels of 
communication. The psychiatrist concluded that Miss G had work-related stress and the 
barrier for her returning to work was, in their view, avoidance of the demands associated 
with Miss Gs anticipations and negative feelings. They said that the continued avoidance 
reinforced the extent to which Miss G was impacted by facing those challenges. And that 
there was no objective evidence of any specific functional impairment secondary to illness 
that would prevent Ms G from carrying out the role she was doing with her current employer 
or with another employer. 
I know that Miss G had been signed off work by her GP and was not capable of attending 
work. I also know that the medical evidence suggests that a timescale couldnt be given for 
when Miss G was likely to be able to return to work. But Im not persuaded at the time L & G 
decided to stop paying the claim, that she was unable to perform the role she was doing 
more generally because of illness (or injury). 
The totality of the medical evidence from 2019 generally supports that although there may 
have been other factors, the main barriers to Miss Gs return to work were work-related 
issues that she was having difficulty coming to terms with. It was because of this that, 
Miss G says, she started to explore options with her employer to negotiate an exit package. 
She says she wanted to get better. 
Thats, of course, entirely understandable. But its unlikely the underlying issues that were 
causing her to be off work sick wouldve existed if she had been doing the same role at a 
different employer. The medical evidence suggests that it was Miss Gs perceived workplace 
stressors which were preventing treatment being effective, and the main barrier to her being 
able to work.
I know Miss G will be very unhappy with my decision and I dont doubt that she has had a 
very difficult few years. But for the reasons Ive set out above, Im persuaded L & G has 
been able to fairly demonstrate that she no longer met the policy definition of being 
incapacitated at the time it took the decision to stop paying the monthly benefit.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman