DRN-3020383
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a withdrawal she didnt make from her 
account.
What happened
Mrs P says that her pouch containing her Santander card, other bank cards, mobile phone 
and other items was taken on 11 November 2021 at about 15:00. She reported this to police 
that day and also to Santander and the other three financial businesses involved. Her 
Santander card was used to make a £200 cash withdrawal. She is unhappy that it wont 
refund her money as she has been the victim of crime. The other financial businesses have 
refunded similar withdrawals. And Santander hadnt contacted her about her claim as it said.
Santander said it wouldnt be refunding the money. The cash withdrawal was made with the 
card and PIN. Mrs P hadnt used the PIN for her card for seven days before the disputed 
payment. A new PIN had been issued in August 2020 and hadnt been changed and it was 
unlikely that it could be guessed. Mrs P had told it that her PIN on each of the cards used 
was different so it couldnt understand how they had all been discovered by a third party.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The withdrawal of £200 
with this card was made at 16:34 and the PIN entered correctly on the second attempt. After 
a balance enquiry further attempts were made to withdraw £100 at 16:38 and £50 at 16:39. 
These were declined by Santanders security system and it tried to contact her  but on the 
mobile phone that Mrs P says was stolen. Further attempts were made to use the card at a 
newsagents that evening, but the card was by then blocked.
Mrs P had told our investigator that she hadnt given her PIN to anyone or written it down. 
She didnt use the card much. She was alone that day and there was no detail about the PIN 
in her pouch with the card. She had used one of the other cards before it was stolen but all 
of the cards had a different PIN. Mrs P had first said that the PIN for the Santander card was 
related to a relatives birthday but later couldnt remember if she had changed it or not after 
receiving it. 
Our investigator didnt think that Mrs P had authorised the payment taking into account the 
pattern of attempted usage, the report to police and her other claims to different financial 
businesses. But there was no explanation of how an unknown third party had found out her 
PIN unless it was with the card. And this might have been because a new PIN had been 
issued in August 2020 when Mrs P changed the type of her account. Keeping a PIN in this 
way went beyond carelessness and was gross negligence. So, Santander wouldnt need to 
refund her this money. Santander hadnt told Mrs P that it would definitely ring her back 
when dealing with her claim. And its detection system prevented more than £200 being 
taken including any use of Mrs Ps overdraft facility at the time. It wasnt unreasonable for it 
to allow the first payment.
Mrs P didnt agree. She said that she dislikes the term gross negligence but understands 
what that label means. She insisted that she wasnt sent a new PIN in August 2020  it was 
the same as the previous one. And her account had only been changed to a lite lower fee 
version with no change to the sort code and account number. Mrs P maintained that she was 
the victim and she didnt give her card or PIN to anyone. She wasnt carrying round a written 
version of the PIN. The other financial businesses have refunded her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear the details Mrs P gives about being the victim of crime and the impact thats 
had on her. Im looking here at what Santander did and I note what Mrs P has said about her 
claims to other financial businesses. Here I wont be able to say exactly what happened, but 
Ill be thinking about what is most likely. 
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised Mrs P wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mrs P acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping her details safe. 
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did Mrs P authorise the payment on the account and if not was she grossly negligent 
with her security information?
- Did Santander act reasonably?
Ive seen the audit information about the actual and attempted disputed payments. Im 
satisfied that these were authenticated when the chip on Mrs Ps genuine card was read and 
the correct PIN entered.
I need to consider whether Mrs P consented to the use of her card and if the payment that 
did get applied of £200 was authorised by her. For similar reasons to our investigator I dont 
think it was authorised. Mrs P has given a consistent account of how her items were taken. 
The pattern of the actual and attempted payments is consistent with a fraudster trying to take 
out as much money as quickly as possible from this account. Mrs P has provided evidence 
of a similar pattern at other financial businesses at that time. She has reported this to police. 
So, I find it most likely that she didnt consent to these payments which could have included 
her allowing someone else to use her card.
Mrs P has been asked about the PIN for her card at Santander and the other cards used that 
day. Ive listened to the available call recordings with Santander and with our investigator 
about this.  
Santander has shown that it sent a PIN when it issued a new card to Mrs P in August 2020. 
As she says the account number didnt change. And her recollection is that the PIN didnt 
change either. Santander says the PIN would have been a randomly generated one and I 
have seen no evidence of that PIN being changed. Clearly there was a written record of the 
PIN for the account sent in the post in August 2020. I cant know what the PIN was as these 
arent kept by Santander or visible to staff. But I dont think it is likely that a third party could 
have both seen it when issued and much later been able to use it with the card. Our 
investigator referred to the possibility that Mrs P might have kept this record in her pouch for that period especially as she didnt use the card much. Or that she had recorded this in 
some other way and that allowed the third party to use it.
The difficulty is that there is no other credible explanation than that the PIN was written down 
in some way to explain how it was discovered. Mrs P hadnt used it herself for seven days. 
She says the PIN on the card at another financial business she used that day was different. I 
appreciate that there was an unsuccessful attempt to enter the PIN first time. But I dont 
think its likely that a fraudster could have otherwise guessed a PIN in two attempts. Those 
attempts might be because there was more than one PIN recorded being tried. But in any 
event I reach the most likely conclusion that Mrs P had her PIN written down.
Negligence is often referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and 
reasonable to conclude, the use of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence. I think that most 
people would think keeping a record of a PIN with a card very careless. And I find here that 
this was gross negligence on the part of Mrs P and so as a result that Santander doesnt 
need to refund the unauthorised payment.
Like our investigator I heard Santander tell Mrs P when she reported the fraud that it wasnt 
guaranteed it would need to call her before it made an assessment. And in an initial letter it 
asked her to call back and which she later did. I wouldnt have expected it to decline a single 
cash withdrawal, but the further attempts triggered an alert, and this helped to prevent 
further loss. I know Mrs P will be very disappointed when I say that having reviewed all the 
evidence and her comments about what happened I dont find Santander acted 
unreasonably. I wont be requiring it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman