DRN-3258299
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy John Lewis Financial Services Limited (John Lewis) permanently 
suspended the card on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr J has a John Lewis credit card account. In early 2021 Mr Js account started to fall into 
arrears, and it remained in arrears from March to at least August 2021. During this time, 
John Lewis called Mr J several times about his repayments to see if it could assist. In most 
of these calls, it told Mr J his credit card would be temporarily suspended while he was in 
arrears. On 
22 May 2021 John Lewis revoked, in other words permanently suspended, Mr Js card.
Unhappy about this, Mr J complained to John Lewis. In its final response, John Lewis said it 
couldnt remove the permanent suspension. It said Mr J made six late payments over the 
past twelve months, with four of these over thirty days late, and it would add this information 
to Mr Js credit record as a true reflection of his account. It said Mr Js monthly statements 
warned his card would be suspended if payments werent made on time, and it would also 
have automatically sent separate letters to Mr J about this. John Lewis said that while Mr J 
had previously submitted income and expenditure (I&E) information to another lender that 
was part of the same banking group as John Lewis, John Lewis needed up to date I&E 
information from Mr J in order to agree a repayment arrangement with him. 
Mr J brought his complaint to our Service as he wanted the suspension of his card to be 
lifted. Mr J said he wasnt sure how many repayments hed missed but hed tried to set up a 
repayment plan with John Lewis and it could and should have just used the I&E information 
hed previously given to another lender in its group. 
Our Investigator thought John Lewis had treated Mr J fairly, and it was reasonable to ask Mr 
J for I&E information instead of relying on information from another lender that was some 
months old. She said John Lewis told Mr J about the arrears and the temporary suspension 
of his card in the calls it made and his monthly statements. But she said it hadnt told Mr J 
his card would be permanently suspended, and this was an error. However, she thought this 
error didnt make a difference, since Mr Js account had remained in arrears and John Lewis 
had a right to suspend the card. 
Mr J said it was unacceptable that John Lewis hadnt told him about the permanent 
suspension, and it was too quick to suspend his card given the guidance the Financial 
Conduct Authority had given to financial businesses about how they should treat consumers. 
Mr J also thought our Investigator hadnt considered his complaint impartially and so he 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an Ombudsman. Therefore, Mr Js complaint came 
to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr Js account fell into arrears, John Lewis called him several times over the months to 
see if it could help. Ive listened to all these of calls except for one on 30 July 2021, as John 
Lewis says it didnt record because of a technical issue. But in the calls that are available, 
Ive heard that John Lewis asked Mr J questions to try and understand his individual 
circumstances and why hed missed payments. That it offered Mr J various solutions 
including setting up a direct debit and moving the payment date, and told him about a debt 
support organisation he could contact. And that on several occasions, John Lewis 
suspended the interest on Mr Js account and refunded late fees it had charged. It also told 
Mr J his card would be temporarily suspended while his account was in arrears. Given this, I 
think John Lewis treated Mr J positively and sympathetically, and in line with the relevant 
regulations and guidelines.
From the April 2021 call, John Lewis and Mr J began to discuss agreeing a repayment 
arrangement, though this wasnt something Mr J wanted at first. But John Lewis made clear 
Mr J would need to provide it with I&E information so it could assess what he could afford to 
repay. I appreciate Mr J thinks John Lewis could and should have simply obtained the I&E 
information hed already submitted to another lender in its banking group. In one call, John 
Lewis tried to search its systems for this information so it could be used as a basis for Mr J 
providing I&E information to John Lewis. However, that call unexpectedly cut off while John 
Lewis was still looking for that I&E information. 
But even though John Lewis tried to assist Mr J by looking for I&E information hed provided 
to another lender, that doesnt mean John Lewis was obliged to simply copy and use that 
I&E information. John Lewis has explained that while the other lender is part of its banking 
group, John Lewis has its own processes for assessing I&E. In addition, I note Mr J told 
John Lewis hed submitted that I&E information to the other lender at some point within the 
previous three months. So its reasonable to think the time passed meant Mr Js I&E 
situation could have changed. For these reasons, I think it was fair for John Lewis to ask Mr 
J for up to date I&E information, and not simply use information from another lender that Mr 
J had provided some time earlier. 
Mr J is unhappy John Lewis permanently suspended his credit card, and didnt tell him about 
this. I should be clear that I think the terms and conditions of Mr Js account entitled John 
Lewis to suspend Mr Js credit card in these particular circumstances. They say, We may 
refuse to authorise a transaction and cancel or suspend use of the account and refuse to 
replace or reissue a card if authorising the transaction would cause a breach of this 
agreement or put us in breach of any legal requirements that apply to us or we 
reasonably: believe that there is a significantly increased risk that you may not be able to 
repay the amount you owe us. 
When John Lewis spoke to Mr J soon after he first fell into arrears, it said it would 
temporarily suspend his card whilst his account is in arrears. It told him this again in later 
calls. In addition, the first page of Mr Js monthly account statements between April 2021 
and August 2021 say Despite previous requests for payment, your account remains 
overdue. We have, therefore, suspended the use of your Card. For advice please contact 
[John Lewis] collections on [telephone number]. So Im satisfied John Lewis told Mr J his 
card would be temporarily suspended. However, Ive not been provided with any evidence 
that John Lewis told Mr J it would be permanently suspended in May 2021. I think that was 
an error, as its reasonable to think John Lewis should have told Mr J it was making that 
change in how hed be able to use his account from then on. 
I know Mr J says its unacceptable John Lewis didnt tell him about this, and that it 
permanently suspended his card too quickly. As I say, I agree John Lewis made an error by not telling Mr J about the permanent suspension. But Im satisfied that error didnt make any 
difference here. Thats because John Lewis had already told Mr J his card would be 
temporarily suspended. And looking at Mr Js account statements, I can see his account 
remained in arrears for three months in a row before John Lewis permanently suspended his 
card, which I think is a significant amount of time. As a result, the temporary suspension 
added in March 2021 was never removed. John Lewis has provided our Service with a copy 
of its internal guidance regarding permanent suspensions, and I can see it has acted in line 
with that. So I cant agree that John Lewis permanently suspended Mr Js card too quickly. 
Taking everything into account, Im not asking John Lewis to take any further action here, 
though I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr J hoped for. 
If Mr Js account remains in arrears and he hasnt already done so, I would encourage Mr J 
to contact John Lewis to see if providing I&E information and agreeing a repayment plan is a 
helpful way forward for him. Though this is, of course, something for Mr J to decide. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman