DRN-1425627
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997. For simplicity, I will refer to the business as 
Halifax. 
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy when they applied for a loan in 1997. They paid a 
monthly amount for the policy. Although the loan was in joint names, Mrs P was the only 
person covered by the policy. So, Ive looked mainly at her circumstances when considering 
the complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there is little or no information available from 
the time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened over 22 years ago, so Im not 
surprised that neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs P have been able to provide much of the 
specific sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to 
consider, I need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill 
consider what I do have, look at what both sides have said, and make a decision based on 
what I think most likely happened. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why below. 
Ive looked first at whether Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs P that they had a choice, and 
obtained their consent, in taking out the policy. Mrs P told us that they had no choice as it 
was added without their agreement. Its maybe not surprising that Halifax has not been able 
to provide the actual documentation from this sale, as these events happened a long time 
ago, over 22 years ago. But, because of the length of time that has passed I have seen too 
little evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points, without further evidence to 
support the testimony provided by Mr and Mrs P. So, whilst acknowledging that things could 
have happened just as Mrs P told us they did, I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs P aware that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI policy, and they chose to take it. 
Halifax said it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs P. Mr and Mrs P told us they received 
no advice. However, as it places a higher test for Halifax whilst making no difference to the 
outcome Ive assessed the complaint as if advice was given. So, Halifax needed to take 
reasonable steps to make sure the policies were suitable for Mr and Mrs P. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the recommendations were right for them. 
I explain why below.
Mrs P was eligible for the cover, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions from or limitations to the policy. Mrs P has told us that her sick pay could 
have lasted her for a year and then she could have relied on Mr P and her friends and 
family. But the PPI policy would have paid out for up to 60 months if Mrs P was too ill to work 
and for up to 12 months if Mrs P became unemployed. So, as they would have paid out in 
addition to her existing sick pay benefits, and as this would reduce her reliance on any help 
her friends or family or Mr P may have been in a position to offer, I think the PPI could have 
been useful to Mr and Mrs P. 
The cost of the policy appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time 
and appears to have been affordable.  
So, having thought about everything carefully, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P.
As well as checking the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs P, Halifax also had to give them clear 
enough information about the PPI so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its possible 
the information Halifax gave them was not as clear as it shouldve been. However, for the 
same reasons I think the PPI was suitable, Im not persuaded better information wouldve 
made a difference to their decision to take out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and make no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman