DRN-3036451
The complaint
Mr T said PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender gave him loans that he couldnt afford.
What happened
Mr Lender provided loans to Mr T as follows:   
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalment
sAmountHighest 
Repayme
nt
1 06/09/2014 02/10/2014 6 £250.00 £116.66
2 23/10/2014 28/10/2014 1 £150.00 £172.50
3 01/11/2014 02/02/2015 6 £311.00 £145.13
4 11/06/2015 31/07/2015 6 £500.00 £173.75
5 01/08/2015 30/09/2015 6 £700.00 £273.46
6 07/10/2015 27/10/2015 6 £210.00 £78.40
7 14/11/2015 28/11/2015 4 £151.00 £65.84
8* 10/07/2016 30/06/2020 12 £1,050.0
0£230.43
*There was also a further loan arranged after loan 8, but it was cancelled before Mr T 
incurred any costs so he hasnt lost out in money terms as a result. To keep things simpler, 
I have not included any further details about this loan as it doesnt affect the outcome of 
Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T complained that Mr Lender didnt carry out sufficient financial checks before providing 
these loans. Mr T said that if Mr Lender had asked to see his bank statements it wouldve 
realised he had gambling problems and he was paying back many other debts  and so it 
shouldnt have lent to him.
Our adjudicator felt that he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide 
loans 1 - 4 or loan 8 to Mr T - but loans 5, 6 and 7 shouldnt have been lent. 
Mr Lender said that it partly disagreed with our adjudicator and put forward an offer to refund 
loans 6 and 7. Mr Lender sent us details showing how it had worked out what it was willing 
to pay Mr T and we forwarded this information to him. 
Mr T didnt feel Mr Lenders offer went far enough to resolve his complaint  and he also felt 
that he was due redress for loan 8.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr T hasnt objected to what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding his complaint about loans 1 - 4. So I dont think I need to say more about these 
loans, except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
And as Mr Lender has agreed to refund all interest and charges in relation to loans 6 and 7 
and to amend Mr Ts credit file in the way we would expect a lender to do in these 
circumstances, I havent considered these loans further save for including them in the 
redress and when thinking about Mr Ts overall borrowing pattern. This just leaves loans 5 and 8 so thats what I have concentrated on in my provisional 
decision.
loan 5
I agree with our adjudicator that by loan 5, proportionate checks would most likely have 
shown that Mr T was having serious problems managing his money and so it shouldnt have 
lent to him. 
I say this because this was Mr Ts fifth loan application within eleven months and except for 
loan 2, his loan applications were for increasingly larger amounts. By loan 5, Mr T was taking 
out a loan that was nearly three times the amount he had first borrowed from Mr Lender. And 
there had been no significant gaps in lending in-between paying the previous loan and taking 
out new borrowing. 
I dont agree with Mr Lender when it says that the gap between loans 3 and 4 was sufficient 
to say this broke the lending chain  particularly as it was aware that Mr T was returning to 
borrow a larger loan than the last one he had repaid and indeed, his largest loan to date and 
twice the amount he had first borrowed from Mr Lender. 
Based on the information Mr Lender had gathered about Mr Ts financial situation, it 
understood that he had ample disposable income each month. So, given Mr Ts apparent 
ongoing and increasing need for expensive credit, I think Mr Lender should by now have 
realised that Mr Ts borrowing seemed to be at odds with what he had told Mr Lender about 
his circumstances. 
I think this information shouldve prompted Mr Lender to carry out more thorough checks into 
Mr Ts financial situation before agreeing to lend. I think Mr Lender should have taken steps 
to verify what Mr T was saying about his financial circumstances. Mr Lender hasnt shown 
me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend to Mr T. 
Mr T has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Mr Lender 
was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a useful 
insight into Mr Ts finances at the time and had Mr Lender looked in more depth at Mr Ts 
finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. 
I think it would have learnt that Mr T was regularly spending significant amounts (in excess 
of his monthly take home pay) on what appear to be gambling transactions. I think, had it 
seen those transactions, that Mr Lender should have concluded it was unlikely that Mr T 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. And I think that concern wouldve 
been borne out by what else more in-depth checks should have revealed  including 
information that showed Mr T was actively borrowing from other short-term loan providers, 
making full use of an overdraft on his current account and also being charged for unarranged 
overdraft use. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that it was likely Mr T would 
be able sustainably to repay his borrowing  so it shouldnt have provided this loan or any of 
the loans that followed in this lending chain. Thats why Im planning on upholding the 
complaint about loan 5 - as well as loans 6 and 7 in respect of which Mr Lender has already 
agreed to provide redress. 
Thinking about loan 8, I think its fair to say this could have looked like the start of a new 
lending chain as Mr T hadnt been paying a Mr Lender loan for seven clear months in a row 
 that mightve suggested he had put his finances in order during this time. But I still think 
that a proportionate check for this loan required Mr Lender to take active steps to ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ts financial situation, given the 12 months loan term and 
the significant loan amount. 
So I think, even though the loan looked affordable on the basis of the information Mr Lender 
had gathered, it needed to do more in-depth checks than it did to verify Mr Ts actual 
financial situation.
Mr Ts bank statements for the period running up to him taking out loan 8 show that his 
gambling spending still looked to be excessive and out of control, he was still substantially 
reliant on his overdraft and it looks like he might also have been borrowing from friends and 
family. So I think it shouldve been clear, had a proportionate check been done before 
providing this loan, that it probably wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Mr T  and 
so Mr Lender shouldnt have provided it. 
For these reasons, as things stand, Im also planning on upholding the complaint about 
loan 8. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr T accepts my provisional decision. 
Mr Lender disagreed with my provisional decision to uphold loan 8. It didnt think that the 
12 months loan term meant it should have obtained bank statements, given this was Mr Ts 
first loan in a new chain of borrowing when its affordability checks suggested he would have 
sufficient disposable income after paying the monthly repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mr Lender for responding in detail to my provisional decision. 
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Id like to assure Mr Lender that I've thought carefully about everything again 
before coming to my final decision and taken into account everything they have asked me to 
reconsider.   
Mr Lender hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision. 
This was Mr Ts most substantial loan by far in the course of his borrowing history with 
Mr Lender (around four times the amount he had first borrowed less than 2 years earlier). 
Thinking about the amount of Mr Ts monthly income and the fact that Mr Lender was aware 
he already had other borrowing, this was a significant sum, in my view, for someone in 
Mr Ts financial situation. He would potentially be making the monthly repayments over a 
12 month term  which was also the longest loan term he had signed up to with Mr Lender. In these circumstances, the fact alone that Mr T had a seven months or so gap in lending 
isnt enough to make me think that a proportionate check required Mr Lender to do anything 
less than ensure it had a proper understanding of Mr Ts financial situation so it could 
properly satisfy itself that the loan monthly repayments would likely be sustainably affordable 
for Mr T over the whole loan term. I dont think that the additional questions Mr Lender asked 
Mr T, including asking him about any spending on gambling, was enough to constitute a 
proportionate check in this situation.
Had Mr Lender done more in-depth checks to verify Mr Ts actual expenditure and found out 
what he was spending his money on, and the true state of his finances, I think, as a 
responsible lender, it wouldve realised that he still had serious money problems as a result 
of his ongoing gambling  and not lent to him. 
I appreciate that Mr Lender takes a different view to me. But I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr T, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr T may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow more funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr T in a compliant 
way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr T would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. 
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5, 6, 7 and 8, not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr T which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C. Pay Mr T the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information for loans 5, 6, 7 and 8 from Mr Ts credit file. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman