DRN-3475055
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC has responded to a claim 
she sought to make to recover money she paid to a third party using a card the bank issued 
to her. Mrs W is supported in bringing her complaint by her son, Mr W. To avoid confusion, 
Ive referred to submissions Mr W has made on his mothers behalf as having been made by 
Mrs W.
What happened
Mrs W paid a third party solicitor, B £5,100 using a Barclays visa card. The payment was in 
relation to legal advice to be provided to Mr W about an employment matter. She later 
contacted Barclays to say the legal advice was deficient. She sought a refund from the bank.
Barclays initially credited Mrs Ws account but subsequently reversed this. It didnt accept 
Mrs Ws claim. It said shed paid using a charge card and this meant the connected lender 
liability provisions of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) didnt apply. 
Barclays also said that the agreement for the legal services was between B and Mr W, rather 
than Mrs W.
It further concluded that there was no basis for it to pursue a refund under the chargeback 
scheme, as B appeared to have provided the legal services to Mr W. It suggested the matter 
of the quality and cost of those services was a matter best dealt with by the Legal 
Ombudsman. However, Barclays did acknowledge that its explanations could have been 
clearer and offered Mrs W £100 compensation.
Our investigator thought Barclays position was fair in the circumstances. But Mrs W didnt 
agree with what the bank had said. She said she had a credit card  as borne out by what 
was written on the front of her card  and that her claim should therefore be considered. She 
has provided further documents and account statements she considers support her position. 
Mrs W also referenced a telephone call in which Barclays had agreed she had a credit card, 
and had told her that the transaction had been refunded in resolution of the dispute.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view of whether Mrs W could bring a 
section 75 claim against Barclays. But he did find that a recording of her conversation with 
the bank supported that it had given her wrong information. Barclays offered an additional 
£200 in recognition of the distress this had caused, but Mrs W didnt accept this and matters 
have been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been a good deal of back and forth I this case about whether Barclays issued Mrs W 
with a credit card or a charge card. That, to my mind, isnt strictly the relevant test  a charge 
card is, after all, a form of running-account credit. The wording on the front of the card and 
other submissions from Mrs W do little more than distinguish Mrs Ws card from a debit card 
where payment is taken directly from her current account, or establish that the card number 
is within a range assigned to Barclays by the relevant card scheme (in this case, Visa).
The key question is whether rights arising under section 75 can properly be said to apply to 
the type of account Mrs W holds. In this respect, the relevant parts of section 75 of the CCA 
say:
75 Liability of creditor for breaches by supplier.
(1) If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or 
(c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the 
supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim 
against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable 
to the debtor
and
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to a claim
(a) under a non-commercial agreement,
(b) so far as the claim relates to any single item to which the supplier has attached a 
cash price not exceeding £100 or more than £30,000, or]
(c) under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement for running-account credit
(i) which provides for the making of payments by the debtor in relation to 
specified periods which, in the case of an agreement which is not secured on 
land, do not exceed three months, and
(ii) which requires that the number of payments to be made by the debtor in 
repayments of the whole amount of the credit provided in each such period shall 
not exceed one.
In summary then, Mrs W can only bring a claim against Barclays for Bs breach of contract or 
misrepresentation if subsection 1 applies to the claim. And subsection 1 doesnt apply if the 
period of credit afforded is three months or less and the agreement requires the whole 
balance to be repaid each time.
That appears to me to be the nature of Mrs Ws agreement with Barclays. Her account 
statements dont specify a minimum payment due each month other than the full balance. 
That is more consistent with Barclays position that Mrs Ws account is caught by the 
exclusion in subsection 3 than with Mrs Ws position that it is not.
The fact that provision exists within the agreement for interest to apply to the debt if not 
repaid in full doesnt alter the fact that repayment in full is the requirement. As far as I can 
see, the purpose of the interest provision is to avoid the otherwise rather odd situation that if 
a borrower failed to comply with the requirement to repay in full, they would benefit from this 
by having an interest-free debt. Nor do I consider the existence of a credit limit to have a 
bearing on whether the account is one form of running-account credit rather than another 
form. The issue is not the amount of credit afforded to Mrs W, but the period and form by 
which she is required to repay it.
I dont doubt Mrs Ws genuine belief that her account ought to be one that affords her section 
75 rights. However, the information she has provided is not in my view sufficiently persuasive for me to conclude that Barclays has wrongly declined her section 75 claim. 
I recognise, of course, that the situation can hardly have been helped by the fact that in 
telephone conversation Barclays led Mrs W to believe she was eligible to claim and that 
shed been refunded. I dont think that enables me to determine that section 75 should apply; 
that is a question of fact established by reference to the CCA rather than what Barclays tells 
a customer. And as Mrs W had already used her card to pay B some months before that 
conversation, she didnt act in reliance on what Barclays told her. But I dont doubt that it 
added to the general feeling of dissatisfaction and concern Mrs W felt when she found out 
what shed been told was wrong.
chargeback under the card scheme
As Ive noted, Mrs Ws card is within a range assigned to Barclays through the Visa card 
scheme. One of the aspects of the card scheme that is unaffected by the operation of 
section 75 is the ability to seek to recover funds from the merchant by means of chargeback. 
I can see that this was an option Barclays explored, providing a temporary credit for the 
payment while it did so. Ultimately Barclays concluded that the nature of the dispute  the 
quality of the legal advice B provided  would not be an appropriate matter for resolution via 
chargeback.
I can understand why Barclays reached this conclusion. It seems to me quite likely that 
progressing a chargeback for the reasons expressed by Mrs W would simply have resulted 
in a defence being filed by B challenging her assertion, rather than agreeing to refund her 
payment. So I cant fairly say that Barclays decision not to proceed with the chargeback put 
Mrs W at any material disadvantage or loss such that it should be liable to reimburse her.
I believe its been suggested to Mrs W that she takes up the matter of the quality of legal 
advice she received with the Legal Ombudsman Service. As the relevant body that deals 
with disputes of this nature, thats the appropriate course of action.
Putting things right
I think its right that Barclays pays Mrs W compensation for the impact of the poor 
explanation and misleading information it gave her. Barclays initially credited Mrs Ws 
account with £100 in recognition of its acknowledged shortcomings. It has since told us it is 
willing to pay Mrs W another £200, and to extend the period over which repayment is 
deferred pending the outcome of the Legal Ombudsmans investigation. That seems to me a 
fair approach for Barclays to take in the circumstances, subject to matters being referred to 
the Legal Ombudsman timeously.
My final decision
My final decision is that to settle Mrs Ws complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC should take the 
following steps:
1. pay Mrs W £200, in addition to the £100 previously paid, in recognition of the impact 
of the misleading information it gave her
2. Provide Mrs W with a suitable period during which her repayment of the £5,100 
transaction to B is deferred without interest, to allow sufficient time for the underlying 
dispute over legal advice to be determined by the Legal Ombudsman Service (or 
other appropriate dispute resolution method). This will require that Mrs W keeps 
Barclays updated with the progress of any such investigationUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman