DRN-3013849
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Northridge Finance Limited (Northridge) irresponsibly granted her a 
loan she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In April 2015 Mrs M acquired a used car that she financed through a regulated consumer 
credit agreement with Northridge Finance Limited. Mrs M was required to make payments 
over 36 months. The total repayable under the agreement was £9,233.
Mrs M says that Northridge didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Northridge didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a review of the information Mrs M had 
provided about her employment and that shed explained she was living with parents. It said 
it had carried out checks through a credit referencing agency to understand Mrs Ms 
commitments.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Northridge didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs M didnt agree and said the business clearly hadnt performed an income and 
expenditure assessment and that they were unreasonable to simply rely on a credit check. 
She explained that she had been reliant on pay day loans and that other business who she 
had taken credit out with had accepted loans were unaffordable for her; she couldnt 
understand why it wasnt the case here. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Northridge will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Northridge didnt verify Mrs Ms income before approving the finance. Given the overall size 
of the borrowing, the monthly repayments, and the term of the agreement, I think it would 
have been proportionate for Northridge to have done so to ensure it was affordable.
One of the ways that Northridge could have verified Mrs Ms income and expenditure was by 
reviewing bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed statements from 
the period leading up to the loan approval which I think give a good indication of what 
Northridge would likely have found out had it completed proportionate checks. 
The statements show that Mrs Ms regular committed monthly expenditure at the time was 
around £1,274 including petrol, mobile phone payments, credit card and loan payments, as 
well as a short-term loan. They also show income of about £2,200 so it would seem Mrs M 
had about £926 of disposable income before taking into account this loan in which monthly 
payments were set at a little over £245. 
Mrs M has explained there would have been rent to consider as well. But theres no 
evidence of what that was, and Mrs M hasnt provided copies of statements from the other 
bank account she had, to which payments were being made from the bank account I have 
seen statements for. I dont therefore think there is sufficient evidence that this agreement 
wasnt affordable for Mrs M. Im not persuaded that because other creditors have accepted 
they provided unaffordable loans that means this loan was unaffordable. The evidence 
suggests it was affordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Northridge acted unfairly 
in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman