DRN-3728847
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about the advice Santander UK Plc gave them when it 
recommended they arrange their mortgage on an interest-only basis and to take out equity 
individual savings accounts (ISAs) to repay it. They believed the ISAs would repay the 
mortgage and give them some additional money, but they have now become aware that not 
only wont they get extra, but the mortgage wont be paid off either. Mr and Mrs S have 
questioned the suitability of the advice they received and think the mortgage and ISAs were 
mis-sold. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S met with an adviser from Santander in the summer of 2002. At the time Mr S 
was in a skilled manual job and Mrs S was a teacher. They were aged 26 and 22 
respectively and had a joint income of just over £35,000. They were buying their first home 
together and needed a mortgage to do so. Both Mr and Mrs S were recorded as having a 
cautious attitude toward risk and reward in relation to their house purchase. This was 
described as them being willing to accept a low degree of risk to achieve their objective. The 
different repayment methods were discussed and it was recorded that they liked the idea of 
being able to port their repayment vehicle and the idea of increasing/decreasing the 
payments to suit their circumstances. 
Santander recommended Mr and Mrs S take out a 25-year interest-only mortgage of 
£72,995 with a life and critical illness policy to protect it in the event of death or diagnosis 
with one of a range of critical illnesses. They were recommended an ISA each, invested in a 
with-profits fund, to act as the repayment vehicle. The recommendation letter detailed that 
the adviser had explained that the monthly payments to the ISAs could be changed at any 
time, but the recommended combined premium to hit the mortgage amount was £122 per 
month. 
An illustration for each of the ISAs was provided. These documents explained that the return 
from the policies wasnt guaranteed and would be dependent on the growth achieved during 
the term. It was detailed that the plans needed to achieve 7% growth each year, and gave 
examples of how much might be paid at the end of the term, based on different growth rates. 
The lower of the rates projected a sum of less than half the mortgage amount, 7% would 
achieve repayment of half the mortgage and the higher rate showed a sum greater than half 
the mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs S took further advances at later dates and these were all arranged on a 
repayment basis. 
Mr and Mrs S were informed in November 2016 that the with-profits fund their ISAs invested 
in was being closed to further investment. This meant that they either needed to change the 
investment fund going forward, or no further premiums would be collected.  They didnt take 
any action at that time and so no further premiums were paid. 
In October 2020 Santander again wrote to Mr and Mrs S about their ISAs. It told them, that 
the fund the ISAs were invested in was being completely closed. They had the choice of 
moving their investment to another fund, or to have the value of the ISA paid to them. They 
didnt contact Santander to have their investment transferred to a new fund, and so the plans 
were encashed and the money paid to Mr and Mrs S at the beginning of 2021.
Around the same time, Santander also wrote to Mr and Mrs S asking how they were going to 
repay the interest-only part of their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S raised their complaint. 
Santander responded to the complaint in its letter of 9 April 2021. It said that it considered 
the complaint had been made too late, under the timescales contained in our rules. That 
being that it was more than six years since the event complained about  the sale in 2002 - 
and more than three years since Mr and Mrs S should have known they had cause for 
complaint. Santander considered that the three-year timescale ran out at the end of 2016, 
although it wasnt specific about exactly what it considered triggered the knowledge to 
complain in 2013.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with Santanders response and referred the complaint to us. 
They explained that they only became aware of the issue about the suitability of the advice 
they received when they were asked at the end of 2020 how they planned to repay their 
mortgage. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and didnt agree that the complaint was 
time-barred. Santander didnt agree and so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a 
decision regarding our jurisdiction on 16 August 2022, in which I concluded that it was a 
complaint that fell within our jurisdiction. 
Our investigator then went on to consider the merits of the complaint. However, he didnt 
uphold the complaint, as he concluded the ISAs had been suitable for Mr and Mrs S at the 
time they were sold. In addition, he pointed out the return from the ISAs had never been 
guaranteed, but also, the size of the shortfall at the end of 2020 would have been 
significantly affected by the fact that Mr and Mrs S hadnt contributed to the ISAs since 2016.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Their key points were that:
Santander had known there would be a significant shortfall, but hadnt told them until 
2020;
they hadnt known that they could put more than the £61 into each ISA each month; and
they didnt believe that they missed any payments to the ISAs.
Our investigator discussed the points with Mr S, but agreement couldnt be reached. It was 
decided that the complaint should be referred to an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have said that the ISAs were mis-sold because they were led to believe that 
the ISAs would repay the mortgage and provided an additional sum. That was a possibility 
as was demonstrated by the information in the illustrations. However, the amount they would 
receive from the ISAs was never guaranteed and always reliant on the growth the plans 
achieved over the 25 years. That growth was also dependent on all of the premiums being 
paid when they were due.
In 2002 Mr and Mrs S said they were willing to accept some risk associated with their 
mortgage repayment in order to hopefully achieve more than was needed to repay the mortgage. The ISAs recommended were invested in a with-profits fund, which at the time 
would have been considered to represent a low or cautious level of risk. As such, it appears 
the risk associated with the ISAs was in line with the risk Mr and Mrs S said they were willing 
to accept. In addition, in the event that a shortfall did occur, given their ages, they had some 
years before retirement in order to deal with any shortfall that might occur. I also note that 
the mortgage was well within most lenders normal lending multiples for the time, which 
would indicate they would have had the capacity to increase premiums during the term if that 
had been necessary. I am also satisfied from the recommendation letter that they were 
aware that the amount being paid into the ISAs could be varied if they needed or wished to 
do so. 
So overall, it would appear that Mr and Mrs S were not only willing to accept the risk 
associated with the ISAs, but were also in a position to do so. I cant, in those 
circumstances, find that the interest-only mortgage and ISAs were unsuitable for them or 
mis-sold simply because the risks that were always a part of the ISAs may have come to 
fruition. 
The shortfall between the surrender values of the ISAs at the end of 2020 and the mortgage 
amount was significant. This shortfall may have been to do partially with the performance of 
the fund in which the ISAs were invested. However, a very significant factor will have been 
that premiums were only paid for 14 years, rather than 25 years as originally planned. I note 
that Mr S said that he didnt believe that any premiums had been missed, but the evidence I 
have seen makes it clear that they stopped contributing to the ISAs at the end of 2016. 
Although it doesnt affect the outcome of the complaint, I will for completeness, respond to 
Mr S comment about Santander knowing that there was going to be a shortfall and not 
telling them until 2020. While Santander may not have written to Mr and Mrs S after 2016 
with updates on their ISA performance, I think reasonably, given they werent paying 
anything into the ISAs from that time, they couldnt reasonably have expected the ISAs to 
reach their target values.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 16 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman