DRN-4036329
The complaint
Ms M complains MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island (MVF) supplied her with 
a car that she believes wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2022, Ms M entered into a 60 month hire purchase agreement for a used car. The car 
cost £32,000, it was around four years old and had covered over 25,000 miles. Ms M was 
required to pay monthly instalments of £657.
She says immediately after collecting the car, she experienced issues with it. She told the 
dealership that at times, the car wouldnt allow her to drive over 20 mph despite her 
accelerating. She also said the drive gear D on the gearstick was flashing. In addition, she 
reported the following issues:
- Wing mirror was cracked;
- Holes under the chairs;
- Worn brakes;
- Issues with the windscreen wiper.
The dealership said she should return the car to them or take it to a local garage. Given how 
far away Ms M lived from the dealership, she chose the latter. The car was looked at by a 
garage in July and August 2022. No faults were found relating to the loss of power but it was 
recommended the washer jet and wiper blade are replaced. 
Despite this, Ms M said the acceleration fault persisted and sent videos of the same to the 
dealership. She said to resolve the issue, she would have to pull the car over, turn the 
engine off and back on again to regain full power. In response, the dealership gave the same 
above options, that is return it to them or take it to a local garage. 
In October 2022, the car was returned once again to a local garage. They found a fault when 
the car went into stop/start mode. They configured the transmission control module and said 
the car was fine to drive. However shortly thereafter, Ms M reported the fault remained. She 
complained to MVF. 
MVF said there was insufficient mechanical evidence of a fault. They provided the following 
options to Ms M:
- The car to be taken to a garage for diagnostic;
- She provides a quote for a hire car to allow the dealership to investigate the fault;
- They would arrange an independent inspection to look at the car.
Unhappy with their response, she referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
concluded the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at supply and MVF should cover the cost of a 
repair. He outlined a number of things MVF needed to do to put things right including 
refunding travel expenses, refunding 10% of the monthly instalments to reflect the impaired 
use, pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, etc. 
MVF said they wasnt disputing there appeared to be a fault but they could only put things 
right if Ms M allowed them to do so. They highlighted she hadnt opted for one of the options 
listed above. Because of that, they said they couldnt assess the inconvenience or the 
impaired use of the car. 
Ms M also disagreed and said she wanted to reject the car. She stressed she had made this 
clear during the first 30 days after receiving it. She also provided recent video evidence 
which showed despite accelerating, the car wouldnt drive above a certain speed and the D 
on the gearstick was flashing. These videos were sent to MVF for their consideration. 
In May 2023, I sent my provisional findings outlining my intentions to uphold the complaint. 
In summary I said:
- Based on the consumers videos and the job card from the garage in October 2022, I 
believe there was a fault with the car (likely the transmission). 
 
- This fault was reported within a short time after collection. On balance, I find the fault 
was present or developing at supply meaning the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
- Where that happens and its outside the first 30 days of supply, the relevant law 
allows
one opportunity for repair. I find that repair was carried out in October 2022. The job 
card said Found vehicle flashing in D when vehicle went into stop start. It goes on 
to say Configure existing transmission control module (TCM) and tested vehicle. All 
OK. Based on this, it seemed there was a fault with the transmission and something 
had to be done by the engineer to the TCM in order to rectify it. It was then tested 
and it was found to be working as it should. 
- Despite the repair, Ms M reported the fault persisted. She said the engine light and 
speed limiter comes on and off intermittently and shes provided video evidence of 
the same. On that basis, I find the repair in October 2022 failed as it was clear there 
is an ongoing fault.
- Ms M doesnt want a further repair. She says shes lost confidence in the car and 
shes concerned about the safety of driving it. The CRA says if the one opportunity of 
repair doesnt fix the fault or others remains, the consumer can reject the car. Given 
what has happened I believe rejection should be allowed. 
- To put things right, MVF should refund 15% of the monthly instalments paid to reflect 
the impaired use. Upon proof of evidence, MVF should reimburse Ms Ms reasonable 
financial costs incurred as a result of being supplied with a faulty car e.g. alternative 
travel arrangements, diagnostic costs, etc. 
- MVF dont need to pay Ms Ms loss of earnings but Ive taken it into consideration 
when considering the overall trouble and upset. MVF should pay £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused and remove any adverse information from Ms Ms credit file.
Response to the provisional findings
Broadly speaking, Ms M agreed with the findings. She provided invoices of costs she 
incurred for ride sharing applications (alternative travel arrangements) and an invoice for a 
two day inspection of the car in April 2023. This report confirmed there were a number of 
faults with the car including it going into limp mode, issues with a number of sensors, engine light on, etc. It concluded an extensive inspection would be needed, ideally by the 
manufacturer or a specialist garage to identify all the faults and its causes. 
However Ms M didnt believe the compensation was enough. She stressed the impact of 
having a faulty car, her concerns about her safety and well-being driving it, the worry of not 
knowing if the fault would present itself or if she would be left stranded and not able to drive 
it. 
MVF disagreed with my provisional findings and maintained their stance. In summary, they 
said:
- Neither themselves or the dealership had seen the car therefore they hadnt had the 
opportunity to inspect or diagnose the fault themselves;
- Ms M refused to allow them to do so despite them offering an inspection, a repair and 
the provision of a hire car;
- They hadnt authorised a repair to take place therefore they hadnt had the 
opportunity to repair;
- They shared the recent videos with the dealership but it was unclear exactly what 
was happening and they dont give an accurate reflection of what the issues may be. 
Mechanical diagnostic evidence was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the points raised by MVF, given the options given by the dealership when the 
fault was initially reported, I find Ms M acted reasonably in taking it to a local garage and she 
did so on more than one occasion. She followed their instruction so its unfair for MVF to say 
they nor the dealership havent had the opportunity to inspect the car themselves when they 
both said she could take it to a third party. 
Based on the several videos and findings of the garage in October 2022, Im satisfied theres 
sufficient evidence to reasonably conclude theres a fault with the car. Although the exact 
issue or the cause of it may be unknown that doesnt mean a fault isnt present. Given how 
quickly it was reported after supply and the miles covered, I believe the fault was most likely 
present or developing at supply so I cant say the car was of satisfactory quality. 
Broadly speaking, it seems MVF accept theres a fault. However they dispute theyve had 
the opportunity to repair it. While I accept MVP nor the dealership carried out the repair, that 
doesnt mean one didnt happen. Ms M was told on more than one occasion that she had the 
option to take the car to a local garage and thats what happened. Based on the job card 
from October 2022, a fault was found and the engineer configured the transmission control 
module. Its unclear what exact actions were taken but its clear they done something to try 
to fix the issue and then tested it to make sure it was working as it should. I remain of the 
opinion that constitutes a repair. 
In any event, Ive considered had she contacted MVF to say the garage had found the fault 
and they believed they were able to fix it, Im persuaded its most likely they wouldve agreed 
to it as all parties concerned wanted to resolve the issue. I also must bear in mind this was a 
manufacturer approved garage who presumably have a lot of knowledge, experience and expertise about issues facing cars of that particular manufacturer and they are best placed to 
rectify them. So I believe Ms M acted reasonably by allowing the garage to carry out the 
repair in October 2022 in the hope it would fix the fault. 
However unfortunately the fault remained and Im satisfied Ms M has provided enough 
evidence to demonstrate that. The videos show the D light flashing on the gearstick and 
despite her accelerating, the car doesnt go over 20 mph. The inspection report of April 2023 
further outlines a number of faults.
Given the timeline of events, Ms M said she doesnt want another repair and wants to reject 
the car. Given whats happened, I can understand why. Its clear shes lost confidence in it 
and Im sorry to hear its not driving as a reasonable person would expect.
Where the one opportunity of a repair has failed, the CRA allows rejection and thats what I 
believe should happen in this case. The agreement should come to an end with nothing 
further for Ms M to pay. The car should be collected at no cost to her and any adverse 
information about this agreement removed from her credit file.  
As outlined above, Ms M explained in detail the impact this situation has had on her and her 
overall worries and concerns. I cant award for hypothetical scenarios, only whats actually 
happened but Ive taken her concerns into account when thinking about compensation. Ive 
also taken into consideration Ms Ms multiple trips to the garage, difficulties commuting to 
work, arranging alternative travel, the inconvenience of having to pull over to restart the car 
every time the fault presented itself. Having done so, Im still of the opinion, £300 
compensation is fair and reasonable for the trouble and upset caused.
Ive also thought about Ms M comments about the refund of 15% of the monthly instalments 
shes paid, she doesnt think thats enough. I said MVF should pay this amount to reflect the 
impaired use of the car bearing in mind its an intermittent fault. Since taking possession of 
the car, Ms M has covered over 5,000 miles so its fair to say shes managed to still drive it 
so its fair she pays for that. In the circumstances, I believe a 15% refund of the instalments 
paid is fair.
Lastly, Ms M has provided evidence of payments for alternative transport. As these costs 
were incurred as a result of being supplied with a faulty car, these should be refunded by 
MVF. They should also refund any diagnostic costs or inspection report costs incurred by Ms 
M. Copies of these invoices will be forwarded to them. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
To put things right, MI Vehicle Finance Limited trading as Mann Island must:
-End the agreement with nothing further for Ms M to pay;
-Collect the car at no cost to Ms M;
-Refund 15% of the monthly payments made by Ms M as compensation for the 
impaired use of the car*;
-Refund the cost of the alternative travel arrangements*;
-Refund the cost of any diagnostic or inspection reports related to the car*;-Remove any adverse information about this agreement from Ms Ms credit file;
-Pay £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
*MI Vehicle Finance Limited should also pay 8% simple interest per year on all the above 
refunds calculated from the date of payment up to the date of settlement.
If MI Vehicle Finance Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my 
award it should provide Ms M with a certificate showing how much it has taken off, so she 
can reclaim that amount if she is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman