DRN-1700326
The complaint
Ms R complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
relating to a difficulty she was having accessing her Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB).
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms R and Barclays so I wont repeat it in any great detail. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather, I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. However in summary it is this; 
Ms R started getting error messages on her BMB and as she could not gain access to it, on 
the 13 June, she made a complaint. When Barclays investigated they discovered that they 
didnt have the correct Know Your Customer (KYC) information for Ms R and had opened an 
account for her some years earlier without any photo identification. They accepted this was 
their error and offered Ms R £50 compensation to reflect that. They also told Ms R she would 
have to visit a branch with the relevant documents to allow the KYC process to be 
completed.
Ms R made another complaint on the 12 July and said she had visited the branch with her 
documents as instructed on 3 occasions but they had not been accepted. A further complaint 
on the same issue was raised by Ms R on the 13 August. Ultimately Ms R produced the 
correct documentation which resolved the problem she was having with BMB, but she was 
unhappy because she had had to attend the branch on 4 occasions altogether. And on some 
of those occasions she had to take her son with her who has a medical condition which 
makes it very difficult for both her and her son. Ms R didnt think the compensation was 
enough and wanted Barclays to offer more.
Barclays said they accepted they had made an error initially, but beyond that they didnt 
think they had done anything wrong. They had offered Ms R £50 to cover the inconvenience 
and stress of being locked out of her BMB and having to go into the branch with her correct 
documents, and the fact that she hadnt been able to get the correct documentation ay first 
had not been their fault.
Ms R was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so brought his complaint to this 
service and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think 
Barclays had acted unfairly towards Ms R. He thought that the amount of compensation 
offered to Ms R was fair and reasonable. Ms R didnt agree with that and asked that the 
complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate. So I look at the issues raised and then consider all the 
available evidence in order to see if the business has acted fairly. I take into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Ms R.
So, I think we have an unfortunate situation here and I am sorry to hear Ms R had to make 
so many trips to the branch to sort out her BMB. I can certainly understand how frustrating 
that would have been. The reason she had to go into the branch was that Barclays forgot to 
get the right documentation from her when she opened the account. So Ms R faced two 
frustrating issues (a) being unable to access her BMB and (b) having to take a special trip to 
the branch. I think it is fair to say that that would cause frustration and annoyance for her and 
it is only right that she be compensated by Barclays for that.
However the difference in view between Ms R and Barclays revolves around the number of 
times she went into the branch. Barclays say they told Ms R what documentation she would 
be required to bring with her and although she did take the correct type of documents, one of 
them, a benefits letter, did not show her correct name. This was because she had reverted 
to her maiden name and changed from Mrs to Ms. This issue was repeated when she went 
back and the letter still wasnt displaying her name correctly. 
I do not think it would have been right for Barclays to have accepted a document which was 
not showing Ms Rs correct name. The rules surrounding KYC are very important and cannot 
be ignored. The problem was resolved when Ms R contacted the Benefits Agency to update 
them and then a fresh letter was issued which had all the correct details printed on it. It is 
that action which should have been done before Ms R went into the branch the first time. So 
I cant say Barclays have acted unfairly here because they told Ms R what she needed to do.
However, Barclays have accepted that they didnt get things right at first and because of that 
that they should pay compensation to Ms R. So, the decision for me is what the correct 
amount ought to be. 
In some complaints, the problems a customer encounters dont just affect them financially, 
and that is the case here. Those problems can lead to the customer being caused some 
trouble and upset and it is only right that the business should think about what it could do to 
put matters right. But the trouble and upset caused needs to be balanced and measured 
against  the ups and downs of daily life in dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times.
Barclays offered Ms R £50 in compensation and Ive thought about whether that is sufficient. 
Ive considered the level of other awards this service has made for distress and 
inconvenience in similar cases, and putting all of the circumstances into the balance I think 
what Barclays offered is fair and reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right. I 
know Ms R had a number of visits to the branch but those could have been avoided if she 
had managed to get the right documentation first. 
So, although Ms R will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
Barclays has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint, and this is fair and 
reasonable. So my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Ms R £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2020.
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman