DRN-3519581
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt reimbursed funds he sent to a scam investment 
firm.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The disputed card payments were sent using Mr Gs Mastercard. I agree with our 
investigator that as he made the payments to an investment scam, Monzo acted fairly in 
not attempting a chargeback claim for these payments. The chargeback rules 
Mastercard has set mean that Mr G wouldnt be able to make a successful claim for his 
situation, and so Monzo shouldnt have attempted one.
Ive looked at the usage of Mr Gs account prior to him making the scam payments. I 
accept he doesnt use this account a great deal. But I cant say that the scam payments 
were so out of character that they ought to have flagged on Monzos automated systems. 
Mr G sent smaller payments to the investment at first and then increased the amount he 
sent over the weeks he was investing. This means he changed what looked normal on 
his account. While the investment payments from the second week were higher than 
previous payments made, I dont agree that the value of the scam payments was enough 
to warrant an intervention in this case. And after these went through, the next payments 
then seemed more in line with what was now his usual spending.
The largest payments Mr G were sent back to the account shortly after he made them. 
But the other payments were unable to be recovered as the funds had gone from the 
accounts in question. Or were sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency firm and correctly 
exchanged. So Im satisfied Monzo did do what it needed to try and recover the funds, 
but unfortunately this was unsuccessful.
I accept Mr G has been the victim of a sophisticated investment scam. However I dont 
agree Monzo made any errors in processing the payments he sent. And unfortunately there 
are no recovery options available for him, so I cant ask Monzo to reimburse the lost funds.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman