DRN-2391728
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with the compensation that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) has 
offered to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out alongside a credit card.
What happened
Mrs K took out a credit card in February 2000 and at the same time a PPI policy was taken 
out and applied to the account. 
In 2019 Mrs K complained that the PPI was mis-sold. Initially Capital One responded saying 
that although PPI was taken out with the account no PPI charges were applied so there was 
no refund due. But Mrs K submitted some statements for the account showing there was PPI 
charged.
Capital One then rechecked its records and wrote to Mrs K again, this time indicating it was 
upholding the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold, and it offered to pay £748.93 in 
compensation to Mrs K.
Mrs K didnt agree this amount of compensation was correct as she said it only included the 
amounts of PPI premiums as shown on the statements, but the statements she had only 
covered 9 months of the 21 months she said the account was active. So, Capital One should 
be paying her 21 premiums back plus the interest charged on those and compensatory 
interest. Mrs K then brought her complaint to this service.
Initially we indicated to Capital One should estimate the premiums for any times actual data 
was not available showing the premiums amounts paid. However, Capital One then supplied 
evidence and information to show that no PPI was charged in the periods for which Mrs K 
didnt have statements. 
After some further correspondence Capital One also offered to pay an additional £100 for 
the mistake it made in at first saying no PPI had been charged, and the distress this and its 
handling of this complaint had caused to Mrs K
After this evidence was received out adjudicator said what Capital One had offered was fair 
and also the amount offered for the distress and inconvenience was also fair.
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One has agreed to uphold Mrs Ks complaint that the PPI was mid-sold and to pay 
compensation to refund the costs of the PPI Mrs K paid. So, in this decision I am not looking 
at how the PPI came to be sold to Mrs K, but considering if what has been offered in 
compensation is fair. 
When Capital One first considered and replied to Mrs Ks complaint it made a mistake and 
said that no PPI premiums had been paid. But when Mrs K contacted them further and 
referred to the copies of some statements she had for the account showing PPI has been 
paid, Capital One reviewed its decision and records and agreed that PPI was mis-sold and 
premiums had been paid.
Capital One does have some records of the account. These show the total premiums paid 
exactly match those shown on Mrs Ks statements. However, for the months when Mrs K 
has no statements, Capital Ones records indicate the account had no balance. PPI is only 
charged on the outstanding balance on an account, so when there is no balance no PPI is 
charged. So Capital One says PPI was only paid in March, April, May, June, September and 
October 2000 then in February, March and April 2001.
The statements Mrs K has provided cover the months March to June 2000, September to 
October 2000 and February to April 2001. The PPI premiums paid in these months, as 
shown on the statements, are the same as the amounts shown on Capital Ones records and 
have been included in the compensation offer amount.
The balance at the end of June 2000 is shown as £28.28 owing. It seems this was paid off 
as the balance carried forward, as shown on the next statement Mrs K has provided at end 
of August 2000, is a credit of £1.61. And this statement indicates no payment was made in 
the previous month (that is July 2000). So the balance at the end of June must have been 
cleared. Capital Ones records match this information and the statement Mrs K has provided 
for September 2000 that a credit balance carried forward of £1.61. So, no PPI premiums 
were charged in July and August 2000.
The records from Capital One for November 2000 show the balance on the October 2000 
statement was cleared and the next spend on the account was in February 2001. The 
statement provided by Mrs K for February 2001 also shows a zero-balance carried forward. 
And I have seen nothing to show there was a balance on the account from October 2000 to 
February 2001, therefore I am satisfied on the evidence I have seen that no PPI was 
charged for the months between October 2000 and February 2001. 
From February 2001 to April 2001 PPI was charged on the account. This is shown on both 
Capital One records and also the statements from Mrs K. But Capital One has provided 
correspondence from May 2001 showing the PPI was cancelled at the request of Mrs K. A d 
a copy of this correspondence has been sent to Mrs K. So from May onwards, until Mrs K 
cleared the balance on the account in November 2001, no PPI was charged on the account 
as the policy was no longer active after the premium charged in April 2001.
I know Mrs K feels she paid PPI premiums for all the months the account was open, but the 
evidence from both parties show that this was not the case. Premiums were only charged 
when there was a balance on the account and the evidence I have seen indicates that was 
for just nine months of the 21 months the account was open.
I have looked at the calculations Capital One has provided and I am satisfied its calculation 
takes account of all the premiums that were paid whilst the account was open and that what 
it has calculated and offered to pay as compensation to Mrs K is fair.
I have also considered Mrs Ks submissions about the way Capital One has handled the 
complaint. I can only in this decision consider the issues Mrs K has referred to about the way 
Capital One handled this complaint about the compensation Capital One has offered for the mis-sold PPI. Any other complaints, for example, about how the account was handled would 
have to be taken up separately.
I note when Mrs K first brought her complaint to this service, she said she wanted a full 
refund of the PPI and a penalty imposed on Capital One for original denying there was any 
PPI charged and the stress this caused her. She has recently, in response to an offer of 
£100 for the trouble and upset she has been put to, said she wants an award of 
EXAMPLARY punitive amount to compensate her for the distress and trouble she has been 
put to in pursuing this complaint.
This service is not the Regulator of financial businesses and we are not her to punish or 
penalise businesses. We are here to offer an informal complaint resolution service. All 
complaints do take some time and effort to pursue but where a business has made mistakes 
or by its actions caused a consumer an excessive amount of time and trouble to pursue a 
complaint then we can consider small awards of compensation for this, but this would be 
neither a penalty or punitive amount.
In this case Capital One did make a mistake in its original consideration of the complaint. 
That did mean Mrs K was put to some extra trouble in sending further evidence to support 
her complaint. I think what Capital One has offered for the trouble and upset is fair taking 
into account all the issues.
Mrs K has said Capital Ones miscalculation of the compensation has caused her a great 
deal of trouble and stress, but as I have explained, Capital One has not miscalculated the 
amount of compensation. The calculation is based on all the PPI premiums paid by Mrs K 
and no premiums were paid when there was no outstanding balance on the account. So its 
calculation is correct.
I have also noted Mrs Ks reference to Capital One challenging the original recommendation 
of our adjudicator which she thinks should not have been allowed. Whenever we look at a 
complaint and an adjudicator makes an initial recommendation, that is open to be reviewed if 
new evidence that had not been seen before is presented by either party. In this case after 
the initial recommendation was made, Capital One did provide further evidence to show no 
premiums were paid in the months for which Mrs K did not provide statements. So this new 
evidence had to be taken into account. When this was done, the outcome was different as it 
would not be fair to tell a business to estimate PPI premiums paid for months when the 
evidence shows no premiums were paid.  
In summary I think what Capital One has offered in compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
If this has not yet been paid to Mrs K then Capital One should update the compensatory 
interest to the date the final payment is made. If the payment has already been paid, then 
Capital One need not calculate anything more.
I also think that £100 for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs K for the error made and the 
way Capital One handled the complaint is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above I think that what Capital One (Europe) plc has offered in 
compensation to Mrs K for the mis-sold PPI is fair. And I also think that the £100 offered for 
trouble and upset is fair. So I am not directing Capital One (Europe) plc to pay anything 
more, other than to update the compensatory interest to the date of final settlement, if the 
payment of the compensation has not yet been made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman