DRN-1608616
The complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account which it called the Plus Account (PA).
What happened
Mr P took out a PA in February 2006 which incurred a monthly fee of £12.95.
The PA provided a range of benefits including worldwide travel insurance and 
preferential savings, loan and overdraft rates.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ps complaint and didnt think the PA was mis-sold. Mr P 
disagrees so the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking about whether Mr P was aware the PA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking it out.
I think its more likely than not that he was. I say this for the following reasons.
HSBC says Mr P had a fee free account with another bank before taking out the PA. 
Mr P has not confirmed this, but whether he did or not, I think its more likely than not 
that Mr P was aware that fee free personal accounts were available from HSBC and 
other financial institutions. I say this because he was a businessman and appears to 
have been experienced in financial matters and fee free personal accounts were widely 
advertised at the time. 
Mr P says that he opened a business account with HSBC, and he says HSBC told him 
he must take out a personal PA to obtain a loan for his business.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr Ps honest recollections, I think after the years that have elapsed, Mr 
Ps memory is mistaken. I say this because I think hed have been aware that loans were 
available from other banks and financial institutions without the need to pay for a bank 
account as again, they were widely advertised. And I think if HSBC had told him he had to 
take out the PA to get a loan, and he was not satisfied with the prospect of paying a monthly 
fee for an account, as an experienced businessman he would have queried this. And he 
wouldve looked for alternative options for borrowing and found them available.
So, I dont think I can reasonably say that its more likely than not that HSBC told him he 
had to take out the PA to get a loan and he accepted this as I would need to in order to 
uphold his complaint on this point.
 
So, I think Mr P was aware he had a choice and chose to take out the PA.
HSBC says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend 
the PA to Mr P personally or advise him to take the account out. Mr P says he was advised 
to take the PA. Ill assume he was advised as this is to his advantage and doesnt change 
the outcome.
So, HSBC needed to ensure the PA was suitable for Mr P and provide Mr P with 
enough information about the PA to make an informed choice. And I think it did. I say 
this for the following reasons.
The PA provided worldwide travel insurance covering personal, business and winter 
sports trips; price promise insurance; travel and leisure offers; preferential rates on 
overdrafts, savings, credit and credit card purchases; fee free cash withdrawals around 
the world, and a fee free overdraft of up to £5000.
At the time of sale, Mr P says he had recently travelled abroad. HSBC has provided 
evidence that Mr P was interested in borrowing money as he had recently taken out a 
loan. And he opened a savings account at the same time as opening the PA, which the PA 
gave him preferential rates of interest for. And from what Mr P has said about his personal 
circumstances at the time he took out the account, there was nothing that would have 
stopped him taking advantage of any of the PAs benefits.
So, in my view, I cant say that I think the account was not suitable for Mr P.
HSBC was trying to sell the PA to Mr P, so I think its likely it would have explained it in 
detail to him. I dont know exactly what information Mr P was given, but I think its likely he 
was interested in the benefits of the PA for the reasons Ive given above.
HSBC has also provided evidence that it sent Mr P multiple communications over the 
years about the PA and its costs and benefits. And he couldve cancelled the PA at any 
time if he wasnt satisfied with it, but he didnt and had it until last year. 
For completeness Mr P has told us about a medical condition he had which he thinks 
mightve invalidated the travel insurance. But HSBC has confirmed that the condition he 
referred to, would have been covered.
So, in my view, Mr P knew he had a choice about the PA and decided to take it. The PA 
was not unsuitable for him. There was no information that Mr P wasnt given that would 
have put him off buying it. And it was for Mr P to make use of the PA as he wished.
So, I dont think he has lost out as result of anything HSBC may have done wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman