DRN-4442029
The complaint
Mr B complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund him the money he lost after he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, I understand it to be as follows.
In or around August 2022, Mr B came across an article about cryptocurrency and became 
interested in investing. He completed an online enquiry form, for the company that appeared 
in the article, and was subsequently contacted to discuss investment opportunities. Having 
spoken to who he thought was an account manager and believing everything to be genuine, 
Mr B decided to invest. But, unknown to him at the time, he was communicating with 
fraudsters.
The fraudsters told Mr B that he should open a new account with Revolut and from there he 
could transfer money to a digital wallet in his name. Mr B followed the fraudsters instructions 
and set up a Revolut account, with the stated purpose of use being for Transfers/Crypto.  
Mr B went ahead and made the following payments to the digital wallet he held with another 
firm, and from there he transferred funds to accounts that the fraudsters controlled;
19 August 2022 £2,500
26 August 2022 £1,001
Mr B realised hed been scammed when he tried to make a withdrawal, but was unable to. 
He raised the matter with Revolut, who looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. In 
summary, Revolut considered its controls were proportionate. It said it spoke with Mr B 
ahead of the first payment and followed his instruction to transfer the money, after informing 
him about the risks.
Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into things but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In summary, our 
Investigator thought Mr B still wanted to go ahead with the payment despite questioning by 
Revolut. He added that Mr B had selected safe account as the purpose for the first 
payment, but this wasnt the scam type he was falling victim to. He thought the questions 
Revolut had asked were relevant to the type of scam it may have thought Mr B was at risk 
of. Alongside this our Investigator didnt think Revolut ought to otherwise have been on 
notice that there was a risk of fraud.
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed over to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware in his submissions Mr B has referred to other decisions issued by our service. But 
I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, each 
complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to do, Ive 
looked at the individual circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on  what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have told us and having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions reached by our Investigator. I dont consider there are grounds for me to 
fairly and reasonably ask Revolut to refund the money Mr B has sadly lost. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B authorised the disputed payments he made to his digital wallet, 
where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the fraudsters, from his Revolut 
account. The payments were requested using his legitimate security credentials provided by 
Revolut, and the starting position is that firms ought to follow the instructions given by their 
customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr B from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a firm should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. I appreciate that overall Mr B has lost over £3,500, 
which is a significant amount of money. But on balance, I dont think the amounts paid, in 
and of themselves, would have appeared particularly unusual, such that they ought to have 
been regarded as suspicious. Especially considering in the circumstances of this case, 
where this was a new account Revolut had no account history to compare the activity 
against.
However, I note that for the first payment Mr B made he was required to select the reason 
for the payment, to which he selected Safe account transfer. Revolut said it provided a 
warning in relation to this option. But this payment option ought reasonably to have put 
Revolut on notice that the payment being made might have been part of a scam, such that it 
should not have allowed it to go through unless it had been able to satisfy itself that the 
payment reason was selected in error.
Revolut did intervene, through its online chat, and asked Mr B some questions about the 
payment. Im persuaded that in the circumstances of this case, the intervention Revolut took 
was proportionate and I wouldnt have reasonably expected it to do any more. Mr B was 
moving money to an account he held in his own name. He told Revolut he was moving his 
money from one personal account into another, and he told it he was doing this on his own 
and he had access to his other account.
Im aware that Mr B, through his representatives, believes Revolut should have probed 
further. But in any event, even if I consider that Revolut should have asked further questions, 
I would fairly and reasonably have expected them to be questions around the potential risk 
of Mr B falling victim to a safe account scam  as, given the payment purpose Mr B had 
selected, that would be the most apparent fraud risk. But here, safe account wasnt the 
reason he was making the payment anyway, so it seems unlikely that any further 
questioning along these lines would have led Mr B to believe he was being scammed.Furthermore, even if I were to consider that as a result of further questioning Mr B would 
have divulged that the ultimate intention was for this money to be towards an investment  I 
dont think this ought to have caused Revolut any concern. I say this because it would have 
meant the transactions were in line with the stated account opening purpose Mr B had given, 
and there was nothing concerning about the payee, or the amounts, that Im persuaded 
would have given Revolut any further cause for concern.
Overall, even if I were to accept that Revolut ought to have done more, on balance I dont 
think its failure to probe further could reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of 
Mr Bs loss in these circumstances. Im not persuaded there were sufficient concerning or 
contradictory factors, in the information available to the business at the time of the payment, 
to the extent where it ought to have been concerned that Mr B may have been at risk of 
financial harm.
Mr B has also argued that he was vulnerable, due to his age. While I note Mr Bs comments, 
and from what hes said I understand this was a difficult time, the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
suggest that Revolut had been notified of any vulnerabilities or needs such that it should 
have known to take additional steps to protect Mr B.
Ive gone on to think about whether Revolut did enough to try and recover the funds after the 
fraud was reported. However, there would have been little prospect of these funds being 
recovered, given we know the money was transferred on to the scammer from the digital 
wallet. Therefore, Im not persuaded Revolut could have reasonably done anything more to 
recover Mr Bs funds.
 
Mr B has told us the impact this situation has had on him. I dont underestimate Mr Bs 
strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been a very difficult and worrying time 
for him. Its very unfortunate Mr B has lost this money in this way, and I understand the 
whole experience has been deeply upsetting and I do have a great deal of sympathy for him.  
But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Revolut should have 
done more to prevent Mr B from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
ask Revolut to refund the loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman