DRN-4015807
The complaint
Mr E says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr E had a Tesco Bank credit card and was given three credit limit increases - £2,000 in 
April 2017; £2,000 in April 2018 and £3,000 in June 2019. 
Mr E says the limit increases were not affordable, he already had other cards and loans. He 
says Tesco Bank never asked him for any updated financial information, such as how much 
he earnt or how much his bills were. He was left needing to spend over £1,000 each month 
on his debt and he was just using his Tesco card to repay other cards.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Es complaint in part. He said the checks were proportionate for 
the first increase and the decision was fair. He thought better checks ought to have been 
done for the second increase but Mr E had not sent in any financial information so he 
couldnt say better checks would have shown the increase to be unaffordable. He concluded 
though that Tesco Bank was wrong to give the third increase as it knew Mr Es income had 
fallen substantially by then, and his indebtedness had increased. 
Tesco Bank disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. In 
summary, it said Mr E never showed any signs the credit was unaffordable. Mr E used the 
credit for balance transfers, rarely used the increased limit and paid the balance down 
rapidly. It argues this type of card usage does not show the limit increases were detrimental 
for Mr E.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So,
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Our approach to complaints
about irresponsible lending is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Before increasing Mr Es credit limit Tesco was required to carry out proportionate checks to 
ensure the lending was affordable. There isnt a specific set of checks that need to take 
place, but Tesco was required to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks taking into 
consideration, amongst other things, the value and term of the lending.
To reach a decision on this case I have therefore considered if Tescos checks were
proportionate at the time of each increase; if so, did it make a fair lending decision; and if 
not, what would better checks most likely have shown.
In this case, before providing additional credit, Tesco Bank says it reviewed updated 
information from the credit reference agencies; checked Mr Es account history and 
undertook affordability checks. It then mailed Mr E about the increases; he did not opt out. 
Before each limit increase went live Tesco Bank says it checked that Mr Es circumstances 
had not changed. It has not shared the results of all these checks as some are no longer 
available, but it has confirmed there was no external adverse data on the credit checks. And 
that Mr Es monthly income in March 2017 was £5,904; £2,897 in April 2018 and £1,667 in 
June 2019.    
April 2017 limit increase to £5,200
Having considered the cost of making sustainable monthly repayments relative to Mr Es 
income, I think the checks carried out were reasonable. And, based on the results of the 
checks I have had sight of, the lending decision was fair. Mr E had a low level of debt 
compared to his income and was up to date on all his existing credit.
April 2018 limit increase to £7,200
I dont think Tesco Bank carried out proportionate checks for this increase. I say this as it 
could see Mr Es income had fallen significantly versus the prior year, so I think it ought to 
have completed a fuller financial review to get the assurances it needed that he was 
financially stable. We asked Mr E for some information to help us recreate what better 
checks would most likely have shown Tesco Bank. He did not submit any evidence to allow 
me to do this so I cant fairly conclude that the lending was unaffordable.
June 2019 limit increased to £10,200
Again, and for similar reasons, I dont think Tesco Bank carried out proportionate checks for 
this increase. But I wont comment further on this as even based on the information it did 
gather, I dont think it made a fair lending decision. By this time Tesco Bank knew Mr Es 
monthly income had fallen again to £1,667 and that his overall indebtedness had doubled 
over the last two years to £11,249. So it ought to have been concerned that further 
increasing his limit would out Mr E in the position where he would have to spend a large 
proportion of his income on repaying debts. And it should have realised there was a high risk 
this would not be sustainable.
Tesco Bank argues that the way Mr E used the credit shows it caused no detriment by 
increasing his limit. But this does not change my conclusion. When it increased his limit, it 
did not know how Mr E would use the credit, and equally it does not know how he repaid the 
balance.
It follows I dont think Tesco bank should have given Mr E the third credit limit increase.
Putting things right
As I dont think Tesco Bank should have increased Mr Es credit limit above £7,200, I dont
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that
limit. However, as Mr E had the benefit of the money he spent on the account it is fair he 
shouldve repaid the capital. Therefore, Tesco Bank should:
Rework the account to ensure that from June 2019 interest is only charged on the 
first £7,200 outstanding, all late payment and overlimit fees should also be refunded. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr E along with
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the
date of settlement.
If an outstanding balance remains on Mr Es account once all adjustments have
been made Tesco Bank should contact Mr E to arrange a suitable repayment plan forthis.
Tesco Bank should also amend Mr Es credit file to remove any adverse information 
recorded from June 2019 to date.
.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Es complaint in part. Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco 
Bank, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman