DRN-4381508
The complaint
Mr K complains that the incorrect amount of interest has been applied to a settlement 
quotation, in relation to a car that was supplied through a conditional sale agreement with 
Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as Kia Finance (Hyundai).
Mr K has been represented on this complaint. But to keep things simple Ill only refer to Mr K 
in my decision.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr K acquired a new car using a conditional sale agreement from Hyundai. 
The cash price of the car was £33,522. Mr K made an advanced payment of £8,500 so the 
total amount financed on the agreement was £25,022 payable over 36 monthly repayments 
of £356.49 followed by a payment of £15,171.12.
Mr K says that within two weeks of entering into the finance agreement he asked to withdraw 
from it but didnt receive the settlement quotation until 10 November 2022. Mr K said the 
interest on the settlement was calculated at 4.9% rather than the 2.52% stated on the 
finance agreement. Mr K feels he shouldnt be charged any interest as he initially intended to 
settle the finance within the first 14 days. However, Mr K said if interest must be applied it 
should be at the lower rate. Mr K would also like to receive compensation for the stress and 
anxiety this situation has caused him.
In February 2023, Hyundai issued their final response to Mr Ks complaint. They said the 
rate of 2.52% is the flat rate which assumes all the repayments are the same, so as Mr Ks 
agreement had a balloon payment, the flat rate couldnt be applied. So, they didnt uphold Mr 
Ks complaint and advised the correct rate was the annual percentage rate of 4.9%.
Unhappy with their response, Mr K brought his complaint to our service for investigation. In 
an email dated February 2023, Mr K said that between April 2022 and October 2022 he 
made seven monthly payments towards his agreement. He said he also made a payment of 
£22,505.57 on 14 October 2022, and in an effort to resolve the dispute, he made a further 
payment of £450 in January 2023, in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Having reviewed the information on file one of our investigators recommended that Mr Ks 
complaint should not be upheld. The investigator concluded that as Mr K signed the 
agreement in August 2021 the request to withdraw was made after the two week withdrawal 
period. And in relation to the interest applied to the settlement, the investigator concluded 
that they had no reason to believe Hyundai had applied the wrong amount.  
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view. He explained that the notice to withdraw was 
made within the 14 days and the terms of the agreement says a lower rate of interest would 
be applied. The investigator acknowledged the date to withdraw was within 14 days, 
however, as their view remained unchanged, Mr K asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
My decision focusses on the merits of the complaint Mr K raised against Hyundai, so I wont 
be commenting on the investigators handling of the case. Should Mr K have concerns about 
how his case has been handled, he should let the investigator know so that a service 
complaint can be raised. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K complains about a conditional sale agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts 
like this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied we can consider Mr Ks complaint about 
Hyundai. 
My starting point is that the date of the signature on conditional sale agreement is 4 March 
2022. In addition, Hyundai have confirmed the agreement start date as 4 March 2022, in 
correspondence dated 27 March 2023. So, although there had been some initial dispute 
over this, from the information provided, Im satisfied that the agreement start date was 4 
March 2022.
With that being the case, I can see that Mr K requested to withdraw from the agreement, by 
email, on 16 March 2022. This was within two weeks of him entering into it.
The finance explanation document says: after the agreement has been signed you will have 
the right to withdraw from the agreement without providing a reason for doing so. This right 
begins on the day after you receive a copy of your executed agreement from us and ends 14 
days later. It goes on to say the instruction to withdraw could be made via email.
Mr K provided us with a copy of an email dated 16 March 2022 which he sent to Hyundai 
giving notice of his intent to withdraw from the agreement. So, Im satisfied that Mr K made 
the request under the terms of the agreement. Having considered Mr K gave adequate 
notice within the first two weeks of the agreement to withdraw from it, Ive considered 
whether Hyundai should honour the terms of the request.  
Following Mr Ks request to withdraw, I note that he continued to make seven monthly 
repayments up to October 2022 when he made a lump sum repayment of £22,505.57.
Mr K said that Hyundai didnt respond to his request to withdraw. Hyundai havent disputed 
this but have provided us with a copy of correspondence they sent to Mr K, dated in 
November 2022, where they explained that due to data protection not being passed, and a 
complaint being raised by Mr K, about the quality of the vehicle, they didnt go ahead with 
the request. In that correspondence Hyundai acknowledged they didnt follow the request however, they 
explained in that correspondence that theyd authorised a discretionary settlement figure 
which removed some interest from it. 
Having thought about this, Im not persuaded Hyundai necessarily acted unfairly in the 
circumstances. For example, I think its reasonable to expect that Mr K would have followed 
up his request to withdraw after he hadnt heard anything from Hyundai in relation to it. 
Particularly as it appears Mr K maintained contact with Hyundai by raising a complaint with 
them about the quality of the car. 
Mr K continued with the contractual monthly repayments for seven months. So, Im satisfied 
he was aware the agreement was active during this time, and chose to continue with it 
without raising its active status as an issue. I think its fair to say that Mr Ks actions suggest 
his priority at that point wasnt to withdraw immediately from the agreement. I think its 
reasonable to expect he would have chased Hyundai for a settlement quotation sooner had 
that been the case.
In the circumstances, as Mr K continued to make a number of monthly repayments without 
raising any issues to Hyundai, Im not persuaded its reasonable to ask Hyundai to honour 
the terms of the two-week withdrawal period. I think Mr K should have acted sooner had he 
wanted to withdraw from the agreement within the first two weeks.
As Ive concluded that it isnt reasonable to apply the 14-day withdrawal terms in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ive gone on to consider whether Hyundai have applied the 
correct terms to the settlement of Mr Ks agreement.
The settlement quotation
The consumer credit (early settlement) regulations 2004 (ESR), is relevant in this case, it 
tells lenders how to calculate the settlement figure so that its fair for borrowers. As Ive 
concluded that Hyundai wasnt obliged to honour the 14-day withdrawal terms, Im satisfied 
that Hyundai should observe the early settlement process as set out within the ESR.
Mr K confirmed to our investigator that the settlement quote provided to him in May 2023, 
gave a settlement figure of £1,090.47. This would have been following any discretionary 
amendments made to the figure (as described in Hyundais correspondence from November 
2022) along with the interest rebate calculation. 
On the front page of the finance agreement the total charge for credit is recorded as 
£2,982.76. This is consistent with the settlement quotation Mr K said he received from 
Hyundai.
The settlement quotation Mr K said he received from Hyundai has the following information: 
Im satisfied from the information provided that Hyundai have fairly calculated the settlement 
and applied the interest rebate as per the ESR. However, as the statement of account, 
provided to us by Mr K in May 2023, shows he made an additional payment of £450 towards 
his agreement in January 2023, Im satisfied that its fair this amount should be taken from 
the settlement figure quoted by Hyundai.
I acknowledge Mr K believes the incorrect interest has been applied to the settlement 
quotation. However, having considered the information and rules within the ESR, Im 
satisfied Hyundai have applied the correct interest rate to the settlement quotation. For 
example, the ESR uses the annual percentage rate (APR) as an illustration for calculating 
the early settlement rebate. Ive seen no evidence that Hyundai have varied from the rules 
within the ESR.
All things considered, I recognise the initial request for withdrawal wasnt acted upon by 
Hyundai, however, for the reasons given I dont consider it to be unreasonable in the 
circumstances that it didnt go ahead at the time. Im satisfied that Hyundai applied the early 
settlement terms to end the agreement and that the calculations have been fairly applied. 
As Ive concluded that Hyundai have acted fairly in providing a settlement quotation, I dont 
require them to take any action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as 
Kia Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman