DRN-2839165
The complaint
Mr D complains about ongoing advice charges deducted from his pension plan and paid to 
LEBC Group Limited (LEBC). He says he didnt agree to the charges. And that he hasnt 
received any ongoing advice from LEBC.  
What happened
 When Mr Ds company pension scheme was being wound down, LEBC advised him on the 
transfer of his pension. The advice was arranged through his then employer. But Mr D said 
he had no need or want for any ongoing advice after the transfer. 
Mr D cant remember agreeing to ongoing advice from LEBC. But he said he found out in 
early 2020 that theyd been charging him 0.5% each year on his transferred pension plan. Mr 
D said that LEBC havent attempted to offer advice or carry out investment reviews over the 
period theyve been charging him. 
Mr D complained to LEBC. He wanted the charges to be refunded. 
LEBC said Mr D had signed their Letter of Engagement, agreeing to the ongoing charges, on 
4 January 2017. They said hed removed them as his servicing agent on 3 March 2020. But 
they said he didnt directly cancel his agreement with them.
LEBC passed Mr Ds complaint on to the business which they said they were an appointed 
representative for at the time the initial advice was given. They also asked Mr D to confirm 
that he wanted them to cancel the ongoing adviser charge and Client Servicing Agreement 
they said they had in place with him.
In May 2020 the business the complaint had been referred to investigated Mr Ds complaint. 
They noted that Mr Ds employer had paid for the initial advice hed received. They said hed 
signed a Letter of Engagement on 4 January 2017 to indicate he agreed to all of the terms. 
And noted that the agreement clearly set out that a 0.5% annual fee would be taken in return 
for an ongoing service. But they said they couldnt investigate Mr Ds complaint that hed not 
received any service in return for that fee. They said that theyd confirmed with LEBC that 
LEBC would be investigating that aspect of his complaint. 
Mr D said he hasnt heard from LEBC since his initial complaint, which they referred to 
another business. So in June 2020 he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ds complaint be upheld. She didnt think that LEBC had 
clearly set out the service he was going to receive in exchange for the ongoing fees. And 
she noted that no reviews had taken place while the fees were being paid. So she didnt 
consider that the ongoing fees charged by LEBC were fair. 
LEBC didnt accept our investigators view. They made the following points: 
The 2017 Letter of Engagement had been signed by Mr D, confirming he agreed with 
all the terms and conditions within the agreement
That Letter included a form which could be used to cancel the service. But it hadnt 
been used
Although Mr D hadnt signed the Client Servicing Agreement sent to him in 2018, it 
didnt follow that he no longer wished to use their service. And Mr Ds agreement to 
the previous service  through the 2017 Letter  hadnt been cancelled and so 
remained in place
Several attempts had been made to invite Mr D for a review, but he didnt take up the 
offers
Mr D was responsible for ending his agreement with LEBC. They couldnt cancel it on 
his behalf
They had provided the agreed service when theyd offered Mr D review meetings
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr Ds complains that he wasnt made aware that LEBC were taking ongoing advice fees. I 
also need to consider whether the fees charged were fair. And if the services paid for were 
provided. 
Ill first consider whether Mr D was made aware of the ongoing charges. 
At the time of the initial advice, which was funded by Mr Ds then employer, LEBC issued Mr 
D with a Letter of Engagement. This stated on the front page:
What WE will offer YOU  Agreed Services
1. YOU agree to appoint US for the purpose(s) of:
A review of the options available to you from your [company scheme name].
The implementation of any recommendations
In addition to the above, WE will provide YOU with the following services 
(Ongoing Services) in respect the new pension arranged by us:
Then, on the next page of the Letter of Engagement:
An annual appraisal of your pension investment and its ongoing suitability. Where 
a change of fund is recommended, WE will write to YOU to advise YOU of this 
with reasons for OUR recommendation
(the Services)
The letter of engagement continued:
What will WE charge YOU for the Services?  Costs and ChargesFor the Services, YOU agree to pay us as follows (the Fees);
Initial Advice
There will be no fee payable for the initial advice, as this is covered by [employer name]. 
Ongoing Services
For the provision of the Ongoing Services, WE will charge YOU 0.5% p.a. payable on a 
monthly basis collected directly as an adviser charge from your investment. Based on a 
portfolio of £180,187.58, we expect the cost of this service in the first year to be £900.94. In 
order to collect these ongoing fees, it may be necessary to sell units in your portfolio to cover 
the fees.
The Letter of Engagement was signed by Mr D on 4 January 2017. Therefore it appears that 
he shouldve been aware of the charges. But Mr D said he only found out about the charges 
in early 2020. 
LEBC have also provided a copy of a letter of authority signed by Mr D on 10 September 
2018. This allowed them to obtain information from his pension plan provider. But Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest that a review took place after the information had been obtained. 
LEBC sent Mr D a Client Servicing Agreement on 2 October 2018. This contained more 
detail than the Letter of Engagement about what Ongoing Services would look like. Their 
letter said:
I have pleasure in enclosing two copies of our Client Servicing Agreement and Advice 
Agreement and if you are happy to proceed on this basis, please can you sign and return 
one copy of each Agreement to me, keeping one copy for your records.
The Client Servicing Agreement provided details of the ongoing service Mr D could expect 
for his 0.5% each year charge. But Mr D didnt sign it. And I cant be sure whether he 
received it. So LEBC continued to rely on the 2017 Letter of Engagement.
Mr D said:
At no point was I ever told I was still paying. No annual statement or comments in this 
respect. And in the end, no pension advice at all.
The 2017 Letter of Engagement contains the following statement about fees:
The Fees will become payable by YOU when WE send YOU an invoice and will be settled 
by cheque, bank transfer or can sometimes be facilitated through the financial product you 
purchase.
Mr D was charged through his pension plan. But Ive seen no evidence of LEBC sending 
invoices informing him of the amount of fees they were deducting from his pension plan. 
I consider that the primary responsibility for making Mr D aware of LEBCs charges rested 
with LEBC itself. That said, I also look at information from other sources which might lead 
me to conclude that Mr D was or shouldve been aware of something, even if I cant be sure 
that LEBC drew attention to it. 
The initial purpose of the Letter of Engagement was to engage Mr D in the Initial Advice. 
This was paid for by Mr Ds then employer. Its not clear to what extent the content of the rest of the Letter was discussed. So I cant be certain that the Ongoing Services charge 
was brought to Mr Ds attention. I acknowledge that LEBC could say that Mr D shouldve 
made sure hed read and fully understood the form before signing it. But I think he was 
entitled to expect the full extent of what he was signing up for to be explained to him. Its 
clear from what Mr D himself has said that he didnt consider hed signed up for ongoing 
charges. I dont have enough evidence to confirm one way or another whether LEBC fully 
explained the ongoing charges to Mr D or not. But I consider it more likely than not that Mr D 
didnt know he was paying for an ongoing service until early 2020.
As I consider that Mr D didnt realise hed signed up to an ongoing service, with ongoing 
fees, I note that hed have no reason to complete a form cancelling that service. So I dont 
agree with LEBC that the fact that the cancellation form included in the 2017 Letter of 
Engagement hasnt been used means Mr D still wanted the ongoing service. And while I 
agree that a customer is responsible for ending their agreement with a business, Im not 
persuaded in this case that Mr D knew he had an ongoing agreement with LEBC. So he 
couldnt have known hed need to end it.
Ill now look at whether the charges were fair. In order to decide this Ill need to confirm that 
LEBC clearly set out what services Mr D would receive for the fee he was paying. And Ill 
also need to confirm that he received those services.  
The 2017 Letter of Engagement committed LEBC to providing: An annual appraisal of your 
pension investment and its ongoing suitability. But Ive seen no evidence of any attempted 
contact from LEBC to Mr D throughout 2017. LEBC said: In the agreement dated 2017 we 
feel it is clear that if any recommendation to change the funds is required, then LEBC would 
contact the customer, but unless there was no recommendation needed then no such letter 
would be sent. But Im not persuaded that this removes the requirement to carry out an 
annual appraisal to check the investment remained suitable. 
Im satisfied that LEBC made no attempt to provide an annual appraisal until they wrote to 
Mr D on 3 May 2018, 16 months after the Letter of Engagement was signed. I dont consider 
its fair or reasonable that Mr D was paying an ongoing charge throughout this time without 
receiving any service at all.
I do acknowledge that LEBC wrote to Mr D on a number of occasions to invite him to set up 
an annual review meeting. Ive also seen that LEBC sent him two Financial Planning Review 
documents in 2018 and 2019. These show Mr Ds agreed risk level as not yet completed. I 
consider that it wouldve been vital for LEBC to have established Mr Ds attitude to risk when 
they first started to provide ongoing advice services. LEBC said that they established Mr Ds 
attitude to risk in 2016. But they clearly didnt consider theyd completed their assessment 
given what was noted on the Financial Planning Reviews. I can also see that LEBC 
requested information about Mr Ds pension plan from his provider. But Ive seen no 
evidence that they used that information to provide Mr D with a service.
Ive seen no evidence that LEBC attempted to use other methods to contact Mr D when hed 
failed to respond to their letters. Hed not had a review in the three years between 2017 and 
2020. So I consider that LEBC shouldve contacted him to check if he still needed the 
ongoing service hed been paying for.
LEBC did carry out a small amount of work for Mr D in return for the fee they were charging 
him. If those fees are refunded, LEBC wont be paid for that work. They may regard that as 
unfair. But it was up to LEBC to make sure Mr D was aware of their ongoing advice fees and 
that Mr D wanted that service and was happy to pay for it. If they didnt then it wont be fair to 
say that Mr D should pay for the ongoing service when he didnt use it. From what Ive seen, 
LEBC provided almost no service. And Im persuaded that Mr D didnt know he was paying for an ongoing service until early 2020. 
LEBC said they did provide the service theyd agreed to provide to Mr D. They said theyd 
made a number of attempts to invite him for a review, but he didnt respond to their 
invitations. So a review was never held. But apart from the review invitations and two 
incomplete Financial Planning Reviews which were sent, Ive seen no evidence that LEBC 
provided any of the ongoing services theyd set out in the 2017 Letter of Engagement. They 
also didnt complete their assessment of Mr Ds attitude to risk. And they didnt invoice him 
for the fees they were charging. 
All in all I agree with our investigator that LEBC should refund the ongoing adviser fees. 
Putting things right
As our investigator suggested, to compensate Mr D, I require LEBC Group Limited to refund 
the ongoing fees that were charged from January 2017 to January 2020. 
To ensure that Mr D is compensated fairly, LEBC Group Limited should:
Establish the notional value of Mr Ds pension had the fees not been deducted from 
January 2017 to January 2020. The calculation should take account of the date when 
the fee would have been deducted to allow for subsequent growth on each one. 
LEBC Group Limited may need to approach Mr Ds pension provider for the notional 
value.
LEBC Group Limited should pay an amount into Mr Ds pension plan to increase its 
value to the notional value identified above. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If LEBC Group Limited are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ds pension plan, they 
should pay that amount directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would have otherwise been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ds actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr D would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Details of the calculation should be supplied to Mr D in a clear and simple format. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. LEBC Group Limited must redress Mr D as Ive set out in the Putting 
things right section above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman