DRN-3335078
The complaint
Ms G is unhappy that she was locked out of on line access to her account with ReAssure 
Limited for several months and so was unable to view or manage her pension. She also 
received a P45 that contained inaccurate information about her employment status.  
What happened
Ive seen that Ms G has experienced a number of issues with her pension policy with 
ReAssure. Im not going to refer to everything but, in summary and in so far as is relevant to 
this complaint, Ms G had no on line access to her pension policy between March and June 
2021. ReAssure has said this was because Ms Gs account was being updated. Typically 
that should take around ten to fifteen days. But, for some reason, updating Ms Gs account 
wasnt straightforward and required input from ReAssures IT department. 
Ive seen that Ms G contacted ReAssure several times in March 2021 about not having 
online access. Amongst other things she said her account had been placed on hold while 
ReAssure was reinstating her direct debit when shed already had a letter (some 15 days 
earlier) from ReAssure saying the direct debit had been set up. She gave ReAssure a 
deadline of 26 March 2021 to sort things out. Ms G was also unhappy that shed received an 
incorrect P45 (saying that shed left work when she hadnt). She requested a revised P45. 
The deadline Ms G had set for ReAssure to restore her on line access wasnt met and Ms G 
submitted a complaint to this service. ReAssure left Ms G a voicemail on 30 March 2021 to 
say that fixing the issue was a priority. Ms G contacted ReAssure again in April and May 
2021 as she hadnt received a correct P45 and she still didnt have on line access. 
It wasnt until June 2021 that on line access was restored. Ms G contacted ReAssure on 22 
June 2021 to say shed seen some of the missing payments had been added to her account. 
I think ReAssure tried to contact Ms G in July 2021 to confirm ReAssure was in the process 
of applying all the single premiums. Ms G got in contact again in early August 2021. I can 
see that she was becoming increasingly frustrated with the time taken and the lack of any 
written confirmation as to what had happened to her payments  and despite ReAssure 
having said in July that shed get something within the next five to ten working days. 
Things still hadnt been sorted out by early September. I think ReAssure may have tried to 
speak to Ms G to apologise for the length of time taken to process the premium payments or 
to see if shed like the payments refunded. 
Ms G called ReAssure on 5 October 2021 to say shed been told on 26 March 2021 (having 
received an incorrect P45 and having requested a revised one) that she should have it within 
eight weeks. But she was still waiting for an explanation and a revised P45. 
Ive seen a final response ReAssure issued on 16 October 2021. It said that the reason for 
Ms Gs complaint was because of the time taken to respond to her request for a correct P45. 
ReAssure said the relevant department had been contacted and the revised P45 should be 
with Ms G shortly. ReAssure apologised for any inconvenience caused by the delay. To say 
sorry ReAssure had arranged for a payment of £200 to be made to Ms G. 
Ms Gs complaint (about the incorrect P45 and the lack of on line access) was considered by 
one of our investigators. He noted that Ms G couldve telephoned ReAssure during the 
period she couldnt see and monitor her account on line. But that wasnt really the same as 
being able to monitor her account on line. That was important to Ms G as shed experienced 
problems in payments being credited to her pension policy (and thats the subject of a 
separate complaint).  
The investigator said that the issues about the incorrect P45 and the lack of on line access 
hadnt caused Ms G any financial loss. She had been caused distress and inconvenience. 
ReAssure had offered £100 which the investigator didnt think was enough. He suggested 
that £200 would be fairer and better reflect the distress and inconvenience Ms G had 
suffered by not having on line access for some three months or so. ReAssure had offered 
Ms G £200 for the inconvenience shed suffered in connection with the error about her P45. 
The investigator thought that was fair and in line with what wed award and so it didnt need 
to be increased. 
ReAssure didnt accept what the investigator had said. It maintained the £100 it had already 
offered was fair and reasonable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Ms G has been waiting some time for an ombudsmans decision. 
Although Ive read and considered everything, Im only going to refer to what I see as key. 
As Ive indicated, Ms G has made another complaint to us. Its about payments she made 
which werent allocated to her pension policy. Although Im issuing separate decisions, Ive 
considered both complaints alongside one another. 
It isnt clear exactly what ReAssure needed to do to update Ms Gs account and why that 
resulted in Ms G being without on line access for a period considerably in excess of what 
ReAssure says would be the usual timeframe. I dont think ReAssure disputes that Ms G 
was left without on line access for much longer than shouldve been the case. Similarly why 
an incorrect P45 came to be issued isnt clear. But again ReAssure accepts that an error 
was made. 
The issues which Ive considered in this complaint  the lack of on line access and the 
incorrect P45  havent caused Ms G any financial loss. As the investigator noted, because 
of the missing payments Ms G may have been understandably anxious to check her account 
on line to see if the payments had been credited. But theres no suggestion she needed 
information about her account to make decisions about her policy. Or that because she was 
unable to check her account that meant she didnt take certain steps and thats led to a 
financial loss. 
But I think she did suffer considerable inconvenience. As the investigator noted, Ms G 
couldve contacted ReAssure by telephone for information about her account. Ive seen that 
she did that multiple times  in an attempt to get on line access restored and a replacement 
P45 issued. But thats not the same as having on line immediate access on an ongoing basis. And during a period when Ms G would probably have wanted to be checking very 
frequently if her account had been updated with the missing payments (although it was only 
considerably later that happened). I dont underestimate the inconvenience and stress which 
not having on line access wouldve caused.
I dont think the £100 offered by ReAssure is adequate. Ms G was without on line access for 
about three months. I think that merits a higher award. The investigator suggested £200 
instead. 
I think I may have suggested a slightly higher figure. But I note that ReAssure paid Ms G 
£200 for the other aspect of this complaint - the administrative error on the P45 which said 
she was no longer working when in fact she was. Again that error didnt cause Ms G any 
financial loss, just distress and inconvenience. Despite the delay in getting ReAssure to 
issue a correct P45, £200 is probably more than Id award. So, while not having on line 
access for a prolonged period and in the circumstances Ive referred to, might merit an 
award higher than the £200 suggested by the investigator, I think thats balanced by the 
higher award for the P45 meaning that a total of £400 is fair and reasonable. 
 
Ms G may consider a higher amount should be awarded. On our website we say that an 
award of over £300 and up to around £750 might be fair where the impact of a mistake has 
caused considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant inconvenience and 
disruption that needs a lot of extra effort to sort out. Typically, the impact lasts over many 
weeks or months, but it could also be fair to award in this range if a mistake has a serious 
short-term impact.
As Ive noted, Ms G suffered considerable inconvenience over a period of months. She 
contacted ReAssure multiple times from March 2021 onwards. She was given assurances 
that things would be sorted out and timescales given which werent met which no doubt 
added to her frustration. But I still think an overall sum of £400 is fair and reasonable and 
taking into account what I say below. So Im going to say that ReAssure should pay £200 as 
suggested by the investigator. 
As Ive said, Ms G has another complaint with us which Ive also considered. I think at some 
stage we may have planned to deal with all Ms Gs concerns as one complaint. We havent 
done that but Ive borne in mind Ms Gs other complaint in deciding what compensation 
would be fair and reasonable in this complaint. 
Looking at things from that overall perspective, Ms G will receive, in total, £650 
compensation. Thats made of the £200 ReAssure has already paid in respect of the 
incorrect P45, the further £200 Im awarding for the lack of on line access and the £250 Ive 
awarded on the other complaint. 
I think total payments of £650 fairly reflect the considerable frustration, annoyance, 
disappointment and inconvenience that ReAssures several errors and the delays in putting 
thigs right have caused Ms G.  I think ReAssure may also have paid Ms G £100 in 
connection with another issue  delays in withdrawing £3,000 and receiving pension 
projections. For the avoidance of doubt Ive disregarded that £100 as it relates to an entirely 
separate issue. So ReAssure shouldnt take that payment into account in paying the 
compensation Ive awarded. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay Ms G £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes suffered. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman