DRN-1863377
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that CIS General Insurance Limited (CISGL) wont pay in full a claim he 
made under his motor insurance policy after his car suffered damage.  
What happened
In June 2019 Mr G made a claim against his CISGL motor insurance policy for damage to 
his car. The car was then about six years old and had a recorded mileage of some 26,000 
miles. Mr G said something had been dropped or thrown against the glass folding roof of his 
car so that the glass was damaged and cracked, and the roof wouldnt open.
CISGLs own engineer thought the fact that the roof wouldnt open was due to mechanical 
failure, which wasnt covered by the policy. As Mr G disagreed with this, CISGL had the car 
inspected by an independent motor engineer, the (IME). The IME found that the left roof 
hinge mechanism had sheared, and also thought this was due to mechanical failure.
Following the hinge failure, the IME thought it was likely the roof frame had twisted, causing 
damage to the roof glass. He recommended that CISGL should be responsible for the 
consequential damage to the glass only, and not the failed hood operation motor or 
mechanism.
Mr G didnt accept this outcome. He said he would withdraw his claim, and asked CISGL to 
return the car to him in the same condition as he had handed it to CISGL for repair, and in 
particular with the roof closed and watertight. However, following the investigations carried 
out on the roof by a main dealer on behalf of CISGL, the roof no longer closed and the car 
wasnt watertight.
CISGL said Mr G would have to arrange for the roof mechanism to be repaired at his own 
expense, and then CISGL would have the glass replaced. Mr G didnt agree; he thought 
CISGL should accept responsibility for the whole repair. In the meantime the car remained at 
the main dealers premises as it wasnt able to be secured. He had to spend £30 a day 
renting an alternative vehicle.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought that from 
the evidence he had seen, it was the way the roof had been removed by the main dealer that 
meant it couldnt be put back. And it seemed that Mr G hadnt been warned of, or consented 
to, the potential damage that could result.
So he thought that CISGL should cover the full costs of repairing the roof. He thought it 
should pay Mr G a further £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had 
caused Mr G.
Mr G accepted the investigators recommendation. CISGL responded to say, in summary, 
that:the non-operation of the roof was because of mechanical failure of the motor linkage, 
and wasnt related to something falling on the glass;
the glass roof though cracked was in the main intact, and this wouldnt affect the 
operation of the roof;
the roof was already non-operational before the main dealer opened the roof to 
examine it;
Mr G told the driver who collected the car and took it to the main dealer that when the 
glass was damaged, the roof wouldnt then close. Mr G said he spoke to a main 
dealer of the manufacturer who instructed him how to close the roof manually. He 
said that when it was nearly closed, it just dropped into place and wouldnt operate;
on this basis, CISGL said that when the car was handed over by Mr G the 
mechanism was already broken. The boot wouldnt open, both rear quarter windows 
were stuck down, and warning lights were lit on the dashboard; and
CISGL asked that an ombudsman should reconsider the complaint.
 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional view to Mr G and to CISGL on 23 April 2020. In it I said that after the 
investigator gave his recommendation, it seemed that in February 2020 Mr G decided to ask 
the main dealer to repair the roof mechanism. However, having started to carry out the repair 
the main dealer then wrote to Mr G as follows:
We have hit a major snag in repairs on your vehicle. The linkage has been replaced and we 
have tried to bring the roof up and identified that the roof itself is bent out of shape. This is 
most likely from the original break and the way its had to be sat for so long being broken on 
the arm. This has majorly increased repairs as the only fix for this is to replace the full roof. I 
regret to say now we would be looking towards the £15,026 mark for getting your car 
roadworthy and safe. The linkage we ordered has been fitted but its snapped off this too due 
to the alignment; so this will need replacing again but it does come with a new roof so it 
wouldnt be additional.
I said that what the main dealer had now found seemed to me to back up the view of the IME 
at the outset. He thought that following the hinge failure, it was likely the roof frame had 
twisted, causing damage to the roof glass. The IME said the glass roof had suffered a 
moderate blow. In his view the impact might have damaged the glass, but the break in the 
mechanism was caused by wear and tear, not the impact.
I asked the investigator to check with Mr G exactly what happened at the time of the 
incident. Mr G said the impact happened when the roof was up (that is over his head). After 
the impact a dashboard sensor appeared on his screen. Mr G pressed the button to see if 
the roof was still working. He says it started to move but then stopped.
Mr G then rang a garage dealing with his make of car, as it was the weekend. It advised him 
how to manually put the roof back up so that it was sealed and drivable again, which he did. 
He then called CISGL on the following Monday.
Mr G didnt accept CISGLs initial view that the break in the mechanism was caused by wear 
and tear, not the impact. So the car was taken to the main dealer for further investigation. 
This meant manually removing the roof.
I agreed that CISGL should have warned Mr G explicitly that the result might be that the roof 
couldnt be put back without repairs being carried out, and obtained his consent to this. But I 
wasnt persuaded that the main dealer had caused any further damage to the roof than 
already existed.I also noted that the driver who collected the car from Mr G reported that the quarter lights 
were down and stuck in place. So the car was not secure or watertight at that stage.
I said that I had every sympathy with Mr G and the situation he now found himself in. 
However, if I was to hold CISGL responsible for the damage to the roof mechanism, and the 
roof, I needed to be satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the damage to the roof 
mechanism was caused by the impact of the missile. I noted that:
CISGL had produced independent evidence from the IME that in his expert opinion 
the damage was caused not by the impact, but by the left roof hinge mechanism 
shearing due to mechanical failure following wear and tear;
Mr G hadnt produced any independent evidence as to the cause of the failure of the 
mechanism; and
Mr G had acknowledged that when he tested the roof after the impact, it started to 
move and then stopped. The fact that the roof moved initially suggested the 
mechanism wasnt sheared by the impact.
 
Taking everything into account, I wasnt persuaded that I could reasonably hold CISGL 
responsible for making good the damage to the roof mechanism and the roof itself under the 
terms of Mr Gs insurance policy.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr Gs response, in summary, was as follows:
he now acknowledged that he broke the roof linkage himself when he was trying to 
put the roof back up manually after the impact. He said the linkage snapped while I 
was putting the roof up as this is supposed to move boot while in operation, but 
couldnt hold both at the same time, so the linkage was broke by myself not wear and 
tear or mechanical failure;
he wasnt asking for the roof linkage to be fixed for free. It would have cost him £864, 
which he was willing to pay;
he had just wanted his car back from CISGL in the condition hed left it, so he could 
drive it. But because it has now stood for nearly 12 months it was a complete write 
off; and
he now seemed to suggest that because he broke the roof linkage accidentally this 
should be covered by his policy as accidental damage.
 
CISGL responded to say, in summary, that:
the claim was presented to it by Mr G as something having fallen on the roof 
damaging the roof glass and the mechanism. At that stage Mr G wanted to claim for 
both under his policy;
this seemed unlikely to CISGL so it had the car inspected by the IME. He concluded 
on the information available that the linkage wasnt broken by the impact so this 
appeared to be caused by wear and tear. CISGL said it would only be responsible for 
repairing the roof glass, and that remained its position;
CISGL would be willing to consider a fresh claim by Mr G under his policy for 
damage to the roof linkage as accidental damage based on the facts which Mr G had 
now described. But to do so it would need compelling evidence of this, given the 
existing evidence of the IME; andCISGL also wouldnt consider the cost of the additional damage to the car due to the 
time Mr G had this at the repairer as this was due to his not proceeding with repairs 
in a timely fashion. It would only consider what it would have paid at the time of the 
incident if a second claim was successful.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On the basis of the information Mr G gave it following the incident, I think CISGL dealt with 
Mr Gs claim fairly and reasonably. It didnt believe the impact caused the roof linkage to 
fracture. The report from IME agreed and said, in the absence of any other explanation, it 
was down to wear and tear. So CISGL was only willing to pay for the roof glass to be 
repaired.
Mr G now says he broke the roof mechanism when he tried to close it manually after the 
impact. He says he never asked CISGL to pay for fixing the roof mechanism, although this 
doesnt seem to be borne out by CISGLs file. He now seems to be suggesting that it 
amounts to accidental damage by him, and so should be covered as such under his policy.
CISGL says it would consider a fresh claim for this. But it would need compelling evidence to 
support such a claim, and it wouldnt consider the cost of the additional damage to the car 
due to the time Mr G had this at the repairer.
If Mr G wishes to pursue this aspect, he will have to raise it as a separate claim with CISGL 
as its outside the ambit of his original complaint. If Mr G isn't satisfied with the outcome of 
that claim, he can make a separate complaint about it to this service.
For the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that CISGL dealt 
fairly and reasonably with Mr Gs claim as presented to it. It has offered to make good the 
damage to the roof glass under the terms of Mr Gs insurance policy, and I dont require it to 
do anything more under this claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and make no order against CIS General 
Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman