DRN-3282932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the amount of compensation offered to them by 
National Westminster Bank Plc for the trouble, distress and upset they were caused as a 
result of the bank reducing their Mortgage One Account (MOA) facility. They are asking the 
bank to pay £10,000.
What happened
The complaint has come about following the reduction by NatWest of the MOA facility on 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account. 
The MOA is a unique product, consolidating the balances of a customers mortgage, current 
account, personal loans and, if desired, their saving accounts into one account. Interest is 
charged on the net balance of the account on a daily basis. This has the effect of reducing 
the average balance and the interest charged when compared with a traditional mortgage. 
Rather than savings earning interest, they instead offset the account balance, thus reducing 
the interest charged on the mortgage. Where interest rates on savings accounts are lower 
than mortgage interest rates, customer gain by using their savings to offset their mortgage 
balance.
Between 2012 and 2014 NatWest carried out a review of its MOAs and concluded that 
customers had been given contradictory information, suggesting that they had the full use of 
the facility throughout the term, whilst at the same time expecting month-on-month 
reductions in the balance in line with the payment plan. NatWest compensated customers 
who had been affected.
Because they thought they had to reduce their outstanding facility, Mr and Mrs M sold 
personal items to raise funds  items Mr M had been collecting for many years.  The sale 
raised £42,000 which they paid into the MOA facility. Mr and Mrs M complained to NatWest, 
saying that the collection was worth double that amount.
NatWest wasnt able to verify this independently, but agreed as a gesture of goodwill to 
credit Mr and Mrs Ms MOA with £40,000.
Therefore the underlying issue in this complaint  the reduction by the bank of the MOA 
facility  has already been addressed by the bank. Redress of £40,000 has been paid, which 
Mr and Mrs M accepted. 
Consequently, I do not need to go into any further details of what happened in relation to the 
reduction of the MOA facility. The only outstanding issue is the level of compensation 
NatWest should pay for the upset caused to Mr and Mrs M by the banks actions.
NatWest initially offered £750. This was made up of £700 for the worry caused by the bank 
reducing the MOA in 2014, and £50 for the delay in paying over the £40,000 redress. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this. They brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our investigator thought the bank should increase the compensation by a further 
£250 to reflect the impact on Mr and Mrs M of having to sell personal items. NatWest agreed 
to do this, but Mr and Mrs M didnt think it was fair.
Mr M said that the sale of the items for £42,000 has left him around £40,000 out of pocket. 
Hed collected the items over a period of 40 years and regrets having sold them. As a result, 
Mr M believes £10,000 would be a fair level of compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said above, the main issue in the complaint  the reduction of the MOA  has been 
resolved by a payment of redress to Mr and Mrs M of £40,000. So although I note what Mr M 
has said about this  that he was left £40,000 out of pocket  he and Mrs M accepted the 
banks offer of £40,000 for this in full and final settlement of the complaint. Therefore I will 
not comment any further on this matter.
The only issue is how much compensation NatWest should pay for trouble and upset caused 
to Mr and Mrs M.
Putting things right
I can see in its final response letter that NatWest offered £700 for distress caused by 
implementation of the reductions in the MOA. NatWest acknowledged that its actions would 
have caused Mr and Mrs M distress and worry. I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress and upset caused to Mr and Mrs M.
There was a delay in NatWest paying the £40,000 redress to Mr and Mrs M, and they had to 
chase it up. NatWest offered £50 for this, and I think this is also fair and reasonable.
I agree with the investigator that NatWest should also pay compensation for the upset 
caused to Mr and Mrs M due to having to sell Mr Ms collection. As I said above, NatWest 
has made a goodwill payment of £40,000 for the financial losses Mr M said he sustained. So 
any additional compensation would only be for trouble and upset. Mr M wants £10,000 
compensation, but Im not persuaded that is fair. Our awards of compensation are not 
intended to be punitive, and we dont award damages in the same way that a court might.
Overall, I think a payment of £250 for the upset at having to sell the collection is fair in all the 
circumstances, taking the total payment of compensation to £1,000.
My final decision
My final decision is that (where it has not already done so) National Westminster Bank Plc 
must pay Mr and Mrs M total compensation of £1,000 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman