DRN-3829582
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer a defined benefit (DB) 
occupational pension, to a type of personal pension plan, in 2014.
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited is responsible for answering this complaint 
and so to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to Niche.
What happened
Mr Bs pension was a deferred one, in that it related to an occupational scheme with former 
employment hed ceased some time before. When thinking about his DB scheme, in 2014, it 
seems Mr B had first dealt with a different independent financial adviser (IFA) but this firm 
didnt have the necessary accreditation from the regulator to carry out DB pension transfer 
advice. Mr B was therefore referred to Niche, which did.
Niche hasnt been able to provide our service with documents Id certainly expect to see 
when looking at this type of complaint. Its failed to provide any type of fact-find document 
which I would have expected to see as a fundamental part of the overall advice process. I 
also cant see any form of risk profile having been carried out. As Mr B was being advised 
to transfer away from a DB scheme, I would have expected his attitude to risk (ATR) 
categorisation to have been thoroughly assessed and considered by Niche. 
What we do know about Mr B at that time is broadly as follows:
Mr B was 46 years old and was married.
The DB scheme in question here was Mr Bs only main pension, other than his state 
pension, due at the age of 67.
The DB pension had a normal retirement age (NRA) of 65 and it was recorded that 
this age was when he expected his retirement to begin.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the pension was described in August 
2014 as being £208,480 (this value increased a little to around £214,000 in the 
following weeks before the final transfer eventually took place). 
Niche set out its advice in a suitability letter on 21 July 2014. It recommended Mr B could 
benefit financially by transferring away from the DB scheme and it recommended a type of 
personal pension arrangement he should transfer to.
Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred from his DB scheme to a new personal 
pension arrangement. In late 2021 Mr B complained to Niche about its advice, saying he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme. In response, Niche said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Niche's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, Niche should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the 
deferred DB scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. And I dont think it was, so Im upholding 
his complaint.
Initial information gathering by Niche
I mentioned above about the apparent information gaps we have surrounding this complaint, 
particularly that relating to Mr Bs personal situation. In my experience, Niche and firms like 
it, are usually able to produce documentation from the time of the advice which can help 
show the circumstances in which the transfer took place. This can help demonstrate whether 
a consumers circumstances of the time were commensurate with moving from a DB scheme 
to a personal pension arrangement.
In this case, as well as key documents such as the fact find and risk profile being absent, I 
think the information collected by Niche appears to have been generally poor. For example, information about key family members was missing, including details of any children / Mr Bs 
spouse and their respective salaries, if they had any. And I think that to advise Mr B 
properly, Niche would have needed to know much more about his circumstances than it 
appears to have known. Examples might have included whether children were financially 
dependent on Mr B at the time, or whether Mrs B worked and / or had a pension of her own.
Ive noted that Niche makes the point several times that as Mr B was primarily dealing with 
his own IFA, Niche was only responsible for the aspects relating to his pension transfer. 
However, to be clear, as regulated financial advisers with the necessary accreditation, Niche 
was fully responsible for providing advice that was in Mr Bs best interests. Its difficult to say 
it did this when Im not confident it knew what his best interests were. 
Ive also noted that Mr B was charged a substantial amount of money for the advice Niche 
provided. It charged him 2.5% of the fund value which in his case amounted to over £5,200. I 
think its also relevant that the investments Mr B subsequently went on to make in the 
personal pension plan were only possible as a consequence of the transfer advice Niche 
provided to Mr B.
So, to be clear, Niche is fully responsible for providing the advice and answering this 
complaint. I also think what Ive seen here strongly suggests Niche ought to have done much 
more during these preparatory stages. Very significant information gaps existed when this 
advice was being provided and there was a surprising lack of attention to detail by Niche in 
data collection. The information we do have available strongly implies this pension was a 
substantial part of Mr Bs overall retirement provision. In this context, Niches failures to 
investigate Mr Bs personal and financial circumstances was notable. 
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a personal pension, Niche referred in its transfer analysis to 
critical yield rates.
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity 
income as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show 
how likely it is that a personal pension could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. In Mr Bs case, Niche said the critical yield required 
to match his benefits at the age of 65 (without taking a tax-free lump sum at the same time) 
was 5.3%. No critical yield was provided for retiring with a tax-free lump sum. 
In the suitability letter, Niche said this critical yield rate was relatively low and therefore 
achievable. But it didnt go into any detail about why it thought this, or the level of growth it 
was actually assuming Mr B might be able to achieve if he transferred out. So, I think there 
were also failings by Niche in this area. In my view, Niches assertions about the growth 
were somewhat speculative and not backed up by any credible analysis.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, Niche also made mention of the PPF, which it described 
as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when the 
sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at the age of 65 was lower than the yield Ive referred to above. 
However, there was no reason for Mr B to consider the PPF as his ceding scheme appeared 
to be well funded. Ive therefore considered the 5.3% rate and Ive thought about whether 
saying this was achievable was a reasonable thing for Niche to say to Mr B.Niches advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period 
before 1 October 2017 was 5.6% per year for 19 years to retirement (calculated to age 65). 
Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate was 8%, the middle projection 
rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. However, as Ive said above, Niche 
cannot say what Mr Bs ATR was or whether such a risk exercise was even carried out. 
In my view, this was another notable failure, and Ive seen nothing indicating that Mr B was a 
knowledgeable investor, or that he was able to call upon investment experience when 
thinking about how much his transferred pension might grow by, in money market funds, if 
he came out of his DB scheme. Our investigator also pointed out that, in all likelihood, Mr B 
was someone who had little capacity for loss. On the evidence Ive seen, I agree with this.
So, taking these considerations and failures into account, I think the assumed growth rate at 
the time should have been considered as much closer to the regulators lower projection of 
2%. And even though Niche said at the time that the 5.3% critical yield rate could be 
achieved, it provided (and now still fails to provide) any real evidence or rationale supporting 
the assumption that his transferred funds would grow by this amount. Even if I were to refer 
only to the discount rate, which was 5.6%, Ive also considered that the additional costs and 
charges associated with a personal pension  an annual service fee and also fund 
management charges - would have most likely acted as a drag on any future fund growth if 
Mr B transferred to a personal plan. And by transferring away, Mr B was exposing himself to 
a risk that wasnt present in his current scheme. 
I therefore think its fair to say that from a financial comparison perspective, Niches figures, 
shown in its suitability letter and transfer analysis documents, failed to evidence how 
transferring to a personal pension plan was right for him. In my view, transferring would 
mean Mr B would likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared 
against his existing DB scheme; and chasing higher levels of growth would mean an 
exposure to risk levels which were inappropriate in Mr Bs case.
In reality, Niches suitability letter and the recommendation contained therein was a short, 
and in my view, poor piece of work. It did not comprehensively capture Mr Bs circumstances 
and it made references to Mr B principally being the client of the other IFA: these look to me 
to be attempts to abrogate Niche from responsibility. 
Nevertheless, Ive taken account that Niches recommendation that he should transfer out to 
a personal pension was not based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme 
alone. Rather, Niche also said Mr B had some other reasons to transfer away, so Ive 
thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable 
for him, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these issues below.
Other issues relating to transferring
I accept that Mr B was given some generalised written warnings about transferring. But 
Niche still recommended a transfer to a personal pension, based on what it said were Mr Bs objectives. Ive also seen some documents where Mr B himself provided some rationale for 
transferring. Ive summarised all these potential transferring reasons as follows:
There were references in the advice to Mr B having more direct control over his 
pension if he transferred to a personal plan. Mr B could have a personal input in to 
the fund selection if moving forward with a personal scheme.
There would be an opportunity to grow the overall fund value of his pension in a 
personal pension scheme.
There would be greater flexibility when eventually accessing his personal pension 
benefits.
In my view, these were no more than generic transfer reasons and not specifically related to 
Mr Bs personal circumstances. But I have also considered the additional issues of Mr Bs 
age and some of the benefits and guarantees he would be giving up if leaving his DB 
scheme. I have considered all these issues in turn.
Mr Bs age
Mr B was only 46 years old at the time of the advice and based on what Ive seen he didnt 
have any concrete retirement plans. As he had around 19 years before he was intending to 
access his pension, I think it was far too soon to make any kind of decision about 
transferring out of the DB scheme. 
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr B to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr B later had 
reason to transfer out of the DB scheme he could have done so closer to retirement. In any 
event Ive noted, as did our investigator, that Niche apparently failed to assess or consider 
what Mr Bs financial needs in retirement might actually be. This also included an apparent 
failure to look at what Mrs B might contribute to their joint retirement income. 
What Niche was recommending to Mr B was for him to transfer away from a DB scheme 
which was well-funded and which contained significant guarantees and benefits. Evidently, 
there were some discussions around this because I can see some cautionary warnings were 
given in the documents from the time. But again, these warnings were generic and not 
personalised to Mr B and ultimately Niche still promoted the recommendation for Mr B to 
transfer away from his DB scheme. Transferring away at such a young age left Mr B facing 
an uncertain retirement, particularly because Niche had failed to consider any retirement 
plans or financial aspirations he might have. In my view, Niches approach to this was 
substantially affected by its perception of it being no more to Mr B than a firm that could 
transact what he thought he wanted to do. However, as Ive said, Niches responsibilities 
were much wider than this and its job was to understand his retirement needs and 
recommend what was in his best interests. 
The DB scheme death benefits 
Its not entirely clear, whether, or to what extent Niche discussed the ceding DB schemes 
death benefits. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death 
benefits on offer through a personal pension may been portrayed as an attractive feature to 
Mr B. But the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
Niche explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.Mr B was only 46 years old and he was married. So, I think the death benefits attached to 
the DB scheme were probably underplayed in this case. The spouses pension provided by 
the DB scheme would have been useful to Mrs B if Mr B predeceased her and I dont think 
Niche made the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it 
was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. 
I also cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. 
But at around 46 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr B 
wanted, for example, to leave a legacy for Mrs B or anyone else. This would have been a far 
better alternative to irrevocably transferring away from his DB pension scheme just to access 
different death benefits, which in any event, were probably less suited to Mr Bs family set 
up.
Control of the funds
Several references were made in the advice to Mr B being able to influence his investments 
going forward, if he transferred to a personal pension plan. However, Ive seen nothing 
which shows Mr B had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his 
pension. Everything Ive seen shows Mr B would have probably needed ongoing financial 
advice, which of course, he would have had to pay for. His current scheme was run by 
trustees, the costs were most likely minimal, and there were guarantees related to future 
payments. From what Ive seen, Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him 
retiring from a DB scheme, such as the one he was already in, and drawing a pension when 
it became due. 
I therefore think the suitable option here was for Mr B to access his DB pension in the way it 
was originally intended.
Flexibility 
Overall, I cant see that Niche clearly showed that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the 
way suggested. In any event flexibility was not defined by Niche and so I think this was no 
more than a generic point, put forward to bolster the recommendation for transferring. 
Niche said in its transfer analysis about his existing scheme that Mr Bs estimated pension 
upon his NRA was £16,772. This amount was guaranteed and index linked and Ive seen 
absolutely nothing showing why it didnt fit Mr Bs needs. But this was the only reference 
made during the advice process to what an income in retirement might look like for Mr B. 
Niche failed, for instance, to find out whether Mr B could even estimate what income hed 
need in retirement, and whether this pension would likely meet his needs, although as Ive 
said, this was a very long way off in his case. 
Also, because Niche had failed to find out or record details of Mrs Bs salary and pension, I 
think there were other considerable gaps in the information about what Mr Bs retirement 
would look like.
Other relevant matters
There were no apparent concerns about the overall funding or stability of Mr Bs DB pension 
scheme and so the information Ive seen shows there was no need for Mr B to transfer away 
on these grounds. Mr B had no cause to have been concerned about the security of his 
pension.Also, as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme 
wasnt suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because he should have been advised to remain in the 
DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Finally, I of course ought to consider whether Mr B would have still gone ahead anyway and 
transferred out, even if this had been against Niches advice. But Ive seen no evidence Mr B 
would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme against advice. I say this because 
he was an inexperienced investor with no capacity for loss and this pension accounted for 
almost all of his retirement provision. So, if Niche had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think Mr B 
would have accepted that advice.  
Summary
In this complaint, Niche has argued that properly informed, correctly advised individuals 
should be in a position to decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer their safeguarded 
benefits. Nevertheless, the issue here is that this was a complex matter involving many 
factors which Mr B was not familiar with. 
Ultimately, Niches collection of information about Mr Bs circumstances was poor. It failed to 
properly assess his ATR and its recommendation to transfer away from his existing DB 
scheme was based on generic points. I think its whole approach lacked rigour and I dont 
think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and 
increasing income within the DB scheme he already was in. By transferring to a personal 
pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. And at the 
comparatively young age of 46, I dont think there were any other particular reasons which 
would justify the transfer. 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for things like higher death benefits on 
offer through a personal pension might have sounded like attractive features to Mr B when 
he was being given this advice in 2014. But Niche wasnt there to simply transact what Mr B 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role here was to really understand what Mr B 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests. Niche failed in these duties.
I therefore dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension. And in light of everything Ive said above, I think Niche should 
compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension 
transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Niches unsuitable advice. For clarity, Mr B has no 
plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr B whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now, in line 
with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published. His adviser didnt 
clarify this issue, so as weve previously indicated, our approach in these circumstances is to 
not wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. So I am satisfied 
that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will 
provide fair redress for Mr B.
Niche must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
Niche may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date Niche receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Niche to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.Our investigator noted there was most likely distress and inconvenience caused by Niches 
actions and inactions in this case. I agree, and Ive further considered his age, 
circumstances and the fact that this pension represented by far the largest part of his future 
retirement income. In addition Niche should therefore pay Mr B £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Niche to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint 
I require Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr B the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, 
as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Niche 
Independent Financial Advisers Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the 
sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Niche Independent Financial Advisers Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Niche Independent 
Financial Advisers Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman