DRN-4126439
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs N as trustees of a decreasing term assurance policy (the DTA) complain that 
Mr N was mis-informed by Scottish Widows Limited that he would be able to increase the 
sum assured on the policy.
What happened
In April 2009 Mr N was advised to take out a protection for life plan with Scottish Widows 
that included two policies. The first was a DTA which provided critical illness cover and life 
cover with a sum assured of £171,000 for a term of 25 years at a premium of £102.15 to 
cover a mortgage. The second was a whole of life policy in the sum of £7,500 for a premium 
of £19.37 for funeral costs.
Shortly after he had taken out the DTA he applied to reduce the premium to £80 with a sum 
assured of £132,798. He applied to reduce the premium further a few months later to £69.10 
with a sum assured of £114,000. It appears there may have been a further change as I have 
seen a plan summary from April 2012 which shows the DTA has a premium of £59.10 with a 
sum assured of £96,615 and the whole of life policy has a sum assured of £5,000 with a 
premium of £13.91.
Mr N has now complained that he is unable to increase the sum assured for the DTA, as he 
says he was led to believe he could. Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. It said that 
it had never been possible to increase the amount of cover for the type of policy Mr N took 
out and that the only way to increase cover was by taking out a new policy. It explained it 
didnt offer the same policy anymore but an alternative policy was available that could 
provide the level of cover he wanted.
Mr N referred the complain to us and it was considered by one of our investigators. She said 
that the policy provisions and key features document dont say that it is possible to increase 
the sum assured.
In response Mr N said that he had said what he believed to be the case based on what he 
had been told at the time when he reduced his policy  namely that when things get better to 
let them know so he could increase his policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions of the investigator. In short I am not persuaded 
that Scottish Widows has done anything wrong.
Mr N is unhappy that he has been unable to increase the sum assured under the DTA he 
took out in 2009, as he says he was led to believes would be the case when he came to 
reduce the premium and sum assured, shortly after taking out the policy.
The documents available include the policy provisions and key features document and there 
is nothing in those documents that suggests that there is any right to apply to increase the 
sum assured. I have also considered the options provided in the document titled Making a 
Change to a Protection for Life Plan completed by Mr N when he reduced the premium in 
2009. There were five options one of which was reducing the premium/sum assured - which 
was the option selected by Mr N. None of the options allowed for increasing the sum 
assured for the DTA (or the whole of life plan). So, I think the document he completed at the 
time of reducing the sum assured made clear that increasing the sum assured wasnt one of 
the options available under the policy.
In the circumstances I am satisfied on the evidence available that there isnt any option to 
increase the sum assured under the DTA  or the whole of life plan for that matter. And from 
what Mr N said in response to the opinion of the investigator he doesnt appear to be arguing 
that there is. Rather his complaint seems to be that he was led to believe there was such an 
option when he reduced the premium in 2009.
I have no reason to question his belief but I am mindful that he is recalling events from many 
years ago and because of this his recollection is unlikely to be accurate. I am therefore not 
satisfied that his belief arises from him being misinformed in 2009. As I have said, the 
document he completed to reduce his  premium in 2009 made clear what changes could be 
made to the policy and that increasing the premium wasnt one of the options. I think it is 
unlikely that this is something that whomever he spoke to would have got wrong.
One final point I would make is that there is nothing to indicate that he would have done 
anything differently even if he had understood that he wouldnt be able to increase the sum 
assured under the DTA at some future date. In short, there is no evidence he wouldnt still 
have reduced the sum assured under the DTA in 2009 in any event and been in exactly the 
same position as he is now. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman