DRN-3322343
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that AXIS Speciality Europe SE (AXIS) declined their claim 
following a burglary at their holiday home abroad. They had a Home and Holiday Home 
contents insurance policy. For ease, because Mr M is named on the policy schedule and he 
dealt with the claim, Ill refer only to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr M learned that his holiday apartment, along with several others, had been broken into 
and items stolen. He claimed under his policy and AXIS appointed a loss adjuster (LA). The 
LA visited the property and reported that there was no sign of force or violence used to gain 
entry. AXIS declined the claim.
The suspected burglar was arrested, so Mr M thought AXIS should accept his claim because 
the arrest was evidence of the insured event. But AXIS maintained its position that there was 
no evidence the property had been left locked up securely, so Mr M wasnt covered under 
the policy.
Our investigator didnt think AXIS had treated Mr M fairly. He said there was evidence that 
other homes had been burgled so he thought it was reasonable to accept that Mr Ms home 
had, too. Our investigator didnt think it was appropriate for AXIS to decline the claim, 
knowing that thered been other burglaries in the area on the same night, and that 
sophisticated entry methods which wouldnt leave any evidence couldve been used. Our 
investigator recommended that AXIS accept Mr Ms claim. He also recommended that AXIS 
compensate Mr M £150 for the claim handling shortfalls identified.
AXIS didnt agree. It raised several concerns about the recommendation, specifically that the 
policy simply didnt provide cover in Mr Ms circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold Mr 
Ms complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive thought carefully about the points AXIS made and, while I agree in part, I dont think its 
treated Mr M fairly in the specific circumstances. Ill explain.
My role is to decide whether AXIS declined Mr Ms claim for the reasons it gave, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy, and fairly. I wont repeat the details: instead Ill 
summarise what isnt disputed and then focus on the remaining issues and the reason for 
my provisional decision.
AXIS doesnt dispute the burglary or that Mr M suffered loss of contents. It declined his 
claim under the following policy exclusion:
We will not pay for
7 (a) Loss or damage occurring whilst the Home or Holiday Home or any part is vacant, lent 
or let unless involving forcible and violent entry to or exit from the Home or Holiday home.
Mr M agreed there was no sign of forcible entry. 
So, looking at these points alone, Im satisfied that AXIS declined the claim in line with the 
policy terms. Ive gone on to consider, then, whether it was fair to decline the claim in the 
overall circumstances.
Mr M said the burglar may have used more sophisticated methods to gain entry to his 
apartment, such as popping or picking the lock, which wouldnt have caused damage. AXIS 
believed it was more likely a door or window was left unlocked. The keyholder said they 
wouldve locked the doors and windows after the last check.
The evidence doesnt provide any real clarity on how or where the burglar gained entry 
which might support either view, though I dont think that necessarily matters. Thats 
because, on balance, Im satisfied the burglar wouldve gained entry regardless of whether 
the apartment was fully secured. Ive summarised the evidence here:
The burglar disabled the security gate to gain entry, probably by vehicle, to the two 
apartment blocks.
They disconnected the electricity supplying the apartments, probably to disable the 
external lighting and prevent detection.
Five other apartments directly around Mr Ms apartment were burgled on the same 
night.
At least three of those apartments showed signs of forcible entry, and the burglar left 
breaking-in tools behind at one.
TVs were taken from the apartments, supporting the view that a vehicle was used.
Mr Ms external storage lock-up showed signs of forcible entry.
The locks on the wardrobes inside Mr Ms apartment had been forced open and 
damaged.
All of this tells me that the burglar set out with the appropriate equipment and with the 
intention of forcing entry to the holiday apartments. So, whether or not Mr Ms apartment 
was fully secured, on balance the burglar wouldve gained entry. The fact that force was 
used to gain entry to the grounds of the apartment blocks to begin with, then to Mr Ms 
external storage unit, and again once inside Mr Ms property, indicates that the loss was 
always going to happen.
Ive gone on to think about why the policy exclusion is likely to be there. I think its to 
minimise the risk of claims where the policyholder hasnt taken care to fully secure their 
property and an opportunistic theft occurs. Mr M used a keyholder service to provide a 
monthly check of the property while it lay empty and Im satisfied that shows he took 
reasonable care to keep his property secure. I accept Mr Ms still responsible for the 
security of his property, but I cant see what else he couldve done in the circumstances. 
And I think its more likely than not that his apartment wouldve been burgled anyway given 
the lengths the burglar went to to gain entry to the grounds, storage units, wardrobes, and 
other apartments. For that reason, I dont think the exclusion was fairly applied here and my 
provisional decision is that AXIS should consider the claim.
I think the LA summed up this claim well on page 4 of the report:
In the circumstances we are unable to confirm forcible and violent entry to the property. 
We suspect the Back Door or Window was not locked otherwise the thieves would have 
used sharp instruments on the door or window in the same way they did with the 
other properties (emphasis is mine)the property has been ransacked and damage caused internally and the insured has 
suffered a loss. The police appear to be treating the matter as a genuine theft and in the 
circumstances, insurers may wish to give the benefit of the doubt and consider the loss
In addition to the claim outcome, Mr M complained about several customer service issues 
with the way AXIS handled his claim. For example, it sent correspondence to incorrect or 
incomplete postal and email addresses, despite Mr M providing the correct details, and he 
had to chase progress of his claim. Given that the policy provides cover for a holiday home 
abroad, and travel had been restricted worldwide, I can see why Mr M didnt think AXIS 
handled his claim as well as it couldve done. His ability to provide evidence to support his 
claim was limited, which he says caused distress to both him and Mrs M. While AXIS isnt 
responsible for the travel restrictions, its clear that Mr M was frustrated throughout the 
claim process because he wasnt able to gather evidence to support his claim. Considering 
the claim handling shortfalls, Im satisfied that the proposed compensation of £150 is 
warranted.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXIS relied on a valid exclusion to decline Mr Ms claim but, under 
the circumstances, I dont think it [was] fair to do so. And AXIS should compensate Mr M 
£150 for the avoidable delays and distress he experienced because of the claims handling 
shortfalls. 
I said I was intending to require AXIS Speciality Europe SE to:
consider the claim without relying on the forcible and violent entry policy exclusion, 
and
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the avoidable delays and distress he experienced 
because of the claim handling shortfalls.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
AXIS didnt provide any further comment.
Mr M accepted the key points of my provisional decision, but he asked me to:
tell AXIS to reverse its decision on keyholder costs;
tell AXIS to fully reimburse the cost of specified locking mechanisms under the Loss 
or Theft of Keys cover;
make clearer to AXIS the serious nature of its claim handling shortfalls, and
increase the compensation to address the additional shortfalls he experienced with 
AXIS after bringing the complaint to our service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. However, Ill respond to his additional points now.
Mr M wants AXIS to cover the keyholder costs and locking mechanisms under his claim. My 
final decision is for AXIS to consider his claim without relying on the forcible and violent entry 
policy exclusion. To be clear, Im not telling AXIS to accept or decline his claim  Im simply 
saying it wasnt fair that it relied on that exclusion in the overall circumstances so it should 
consider it again without relying on it.What this means is Mr M has the opportunity to include anything within his claim which he 
feels the policy covers and which he can evidence. So, although Im not going to include the 
requirements hes asked me to, AXIS should consider anything he provides to support his 
claim in line with the policy. I hope thats clearer.
Mr M asked me to consider the shortfalls he experienced after AXIS issued its final 
response. I must allow AXIS the opportunity to respond to any additional concerns he has, 
so it wouldnt be fair for me to consider issues which it hasnt seen first. If Mr M thinks 
additional compensation is warranted, hed need to let AXIS know what hes unhappy with 
so that it can investigate and, if appropriate, try to put matters right.
Finally, Mr M wanted me to provide greater detail about the shortfalls he experienced when 
AXIS was handling his claim. He thinks the details should be publicly available and AXIS 
should learn from them. I dont disagree that AXIS should learn from any customer service 
shortfalls, but I consider it disproportionate to detail every single shortfall Mr M experienced 
as they are specific to his individual circumstances. AXIS is aware of the issues, which Ive 
summarised in my provisional decision, and its now a matter for AXIS to decide what, if 
anything, it should do to prevent similar issues.
In summary, while I can understand that Mr M wanted greater reassurance about any 
settlement of his claim, its for AXIS to reconsider his claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and AXIS Speciality Europe SE must:
consider the claim without relying on the forcible and violent entry policy exclusion, 
and
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the avoidable delays and distress he experienced 
because of the claim handling shortfalls.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman