DRN-1944134
 
The complaint
Mr N complains about the way Lloyds Bank PLC ("Lloyds") dealt with a chargeback request 
and the way theyve handled his subsequent complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 16 June 2020. In it I found, although Lloyds 
failed to deal with the chargeback request in a cohesive way at the outset, their response for 
that failing was a reasonable one. And, after listening to the call recording, I didnt think there 
had been any mistake when they paid Mr N £37 compensation, as thats what they offered 
him in the call. I also thought we could look at the way the complaint had been handled as it 
was an activity ancillary to a regulated activity. But I wasnt persuaded that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong in their handling of this complaint. That was because I thought the call 
handler was prevented from summarising the banks offer and how Mr N could take his 
complaint further by Mr Ns conduct during the call. So, I didnt think it unreasonable of the 
bank to end the call and then summarise the position in the Final Response letter (FRL).
Lloyds told us they had nothing further to add. Mr N didnt agree with my decision. He 
questioned whether we agreed with the bank that the person he wanted to complain about 
handled that complaint. Mr N thought when he told the call handler, he wanted to complain 
about him that should have been logged as a separate complaint as it wasnt logical for the 
person being complained about to investigate themselves. And Mr N said he thought this 
service was siding with Lloyds as it made it easier for us to reject his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the points Mr Ns made in response to my provisional findings. Hes silent on 
my findings in relation to the original complaint and on the amount of compensation. And Im 
afraid his comments on the complaint handling element dont change my findings as, I think, 
Lloydss complaint handler was effectively prevented from explaining how Mr N could take 
his concerns further by Mr Ns own conduct. So, the banks response in ending the call and 
sending the FRL - explaining how Mr N could take the matter further  wasnt unreasonable 
in the overall circumstances here. 
Although I anticipate Mr N will disagree with me, theres nothing before me which changes 
my findings about any aspects of the complaint. So, I dont see any reason to alter my view.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman
