DRN-3690782
Complaint
Mr D is unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly closed 
his credit card and charge card accounts.
Background
In March 2022, AESEL wrote to Mr D and advised him that it was freezing his accounts while 
it carried out a review and it asked Mr D to provide some further information. Mr D provided 
the information. However, AESEL subsequently told Mr D that it was no longer prepared to 
offer him his accounts and provided him with notices of closure before closing them. 
Mr D complained as a result of AESELs actions. AESEL didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. As 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ds concerns. She didnt think that AESEL had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that AESEL acted unfairly towards Mr D 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
A financial institution is entitled to review an account and suspend it when doing so. In this 
case, AESEL had concerns which it let Mr D know about and asked him to provide some 
further information so that it could carry out a review. I appreciate that this would have 
caused Mr D a degree of inconvenience. But AESEL did carry out its review within a 
reasonable period of time. So given the circumstances here, I dont think that AESEL 
unnecessarily delayed matters or that it acted unfairly in relation to this. 
I know turn to the closure of Mr Ds accounts. As our adjudicator explained to Mr D, a 
financial institution is under no obligation to continue offering accounts to a consumer if it 
doesnt wish to do so. I know that Mr D is unhappy that AESEL closed his accounts even 
after he provided what it asked for. 
However, each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment for deciding 
whether it wishes to offer its services and closing a customers account is a commercial 
decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. In this case, Mr D was provided with 
reasonable notice of closure. So AESEL isnt required to provide detailed reasons for the 
closure. Although it has provided us with enough or me to be satisfied that it acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ds accounts. 
I realise that AESELs decision will have been very disappointing to Mr D and I can 
appreciate why the closure of his accounts will have caused him inconvenience. I also 
suspect that theres an element of disappointment that hes no longer able to have accounts 
with AESEL when he was previously able to, in circumstances where he provided AESEL 
what it asked him to. 
But despite all of this, Im simply not in a position to be able to tell AESEL that it has to offer 
Mr D accounts in circumstances where it has legitimately decided it doesnt wish to do so. 
Furthermore, while I noted the comments Mr D has made regarding his nationality being a 
factor in AESELs decisions to close his accounts, Ive not seen anything at all which 
indicates this was the case. 
Finally, Ive seen that Mr D is worried that AESEL has recorded adverse information on his 
credit file. But AESEL has confirmed that it hasnt recorded any late payment or other 
adverse markers on Mr Ds credit file. And Mr D hasnt provided anything to suggest that 
such information was recorded against him either. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that AESEL acted unfairly towards   
Mr D and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr D. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why I 
think AESEL hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman