DRN-3452295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about what happened when Barclays Bank UK PLC offered them a 
lower rate on their mortgage. Despite problems with the application, they were repeatedly 
told they could get the much better rate. But then Barclays realised it had made a mistake. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W told us Barclays contacted them in September 2021 to say their mortgage 
product was coming to an end, and they could have a considerably lower rate. They were 
told they could make the change to the new rate online. But they werent able to complete 
the change online, as Barclays had suggested. So they got back in touch with Barclays, and 
received further reassurances that the new, much better rate was still available to them. 
They completed a full mortgage application with an advisor, and were sent paperwork for a 
new mortgage deal. 
Mr and Mrs W said they signed the offer and returned it, but at the same time, they received 
a letter from Barclays telling them about a reduction in their early repayment charge (ERC). 
This letter got their mortgage interest rate wrong. 
Mr and Mrs W said Barclays then realised that their existing mortgage product still had three 
years to run. They said theyd had no explanation as to why Barclays had provided such 
terrible service. 
Mr and Mrs W said that Barclays had offered £300 in compensation, which they said just 
didnt make up for the lies and false hope they had been given. They sent us details of the 
offer Barclays had made, and call recordings of the categoric reassurances that were made. 
They wanted Barclays to honour its offer. 
Mr and Mrs W said that they no longer trusted Barclays, and they were concerned about 
what else might have gone wrong. 
Barclays said it was sorry. This was a system error. The letters Mr and Mrs W were sent 
were triggered by a reduction in their ERC from 6% to 3%. But the letters Mr and Mrs W 
received didnt explain this. Instead Barclays system treated this as the end of their current 
deal, and offered them a new mortgage fix. 
Barclays said it had offered Mr and Mrs W £300 for the inconvenience. It wouldnt increase 
this, or let them take up the better offer. Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage deal still had three years 
to run.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said there wasnt any 
dispute that Barclays had made a mistake. But she said if Barclays hadnt provided incorrect 
information, Mr and Mrs W would still be in the same situation, with a rate ending in 2024. So 
she thought what Barclays had done was incorrectly raised Mr and Mrs Ws expectations.
Our investigator said Barclays had written to Mr and Mrs W to say their mortgage product 
ran until December 2024, but it made a mistake in that letter too, it got the interest rate 
wrong. She thought this was a typo, and noted that the correct rate was set out on Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage statement. Our investigator said there had been no financial detriment to 
Mr and Mrs W from this.
Our investigator didnt think she could reasonably ask Barclays to honour its offer. That 
wouldnt put Mr and Mrs W back in the position they were in before the mistake was made. 
She thought the offer Barclays had made, of £300 in compensation, did provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
Mr and Mrs W replied, to say that their concerns hadnt been addressed. They said they 
were poorly advised, lied to, and given false and categoric assurance that everything would 
be OK as well as multiple examples of correspondence that was factually incorrect.
Mr and Mrs W also queried whether a letter about their interest rate produced by a 
computerised system could properly be characterised as a typo. They wanted an 
ombudsman to consider their complaint. 
Our investigator explained that our service isnt a regulator, so we wont be able to hold 
Barclays accountable for its errors. Rather, she was looking at the circumstances of this 
individual complaint to see if it had been resolved fairly and reasonably. She thought it had 
been. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
As our investigator said, theres no dispute that Barclays made a mistake here. And it kept 
on making that mistake for some time. Mr and Mrs W were offered a better rate. They 
werent able to take this out online. Ive listened to the call recordings Mr W sent us. And I 
can hear that when they told Barclays about this problem, it did indeed make quite 
categorical assurances that they could still have the lower rate. 
Mr and Mrs W now know that this was all wrong, and Barclays wont honour its offer. I would 
like to recognise that this was, as Mr and Mrs W have said, very poor service from their 
mortgage provider. I realise how deeply disappointed they are by this, and understand why 
they say this has shaken their faith in Barclays. 
But, as our investigator said, our service isnt a regulator. We cannot make an award on the 
basis of punishing Barclays for its mistakes. What I have to do is look at the individual 
circumstances that Mr and Mrs W find themselves in, and try to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this case. 
I havent been able to identify other impacts on Mr and Mrs W, aside from their deep 
disappointment and understandable anger. Our investigator noted that there was what she 
described as a typo in a letter to Mr and Mrs W, which provided the wrong mortgage rate. I 
dont think she meant to imply that this was a human error  and Barclays has accepted that 
what happened here was a problem in its systems. I think what she meant was that Mr and 
Mrs W werent actually charged the wrong mortgage rate. So this letter was wrong, but the 
rate they are paying is right. I think thats key here. Mr and Mrs W are very concerned by whats happened, but they are, 
financially at least, no worse off. They are still in the financial position now that they agreed 
to in their 2014 mortgage offer. So I have to provide a fair and reasonable outcome which 
deals with their concern and disappointment. And I dont think that it would be fair and 
reasonable to require Barclays to honour its offer, because of that. I do think that goes 
beyond what it would be reasonable to require Barclays to do here.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W wont agree with me, but I do think the offer Barclays has 
made provides a fair and reasonable outcome here. Id like to reassure them that it is in line 
with what I would have awarded in this case, if Barclays hadnt already offered this. 
It doesnt look as if Barclays has yet paid Mr and Mrs W this money, so Ill require it to do so 
now, if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs W £300 in 
compensation, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman