DRN-3400461
The complaint
Ms K complains about a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF), 
which was taken out to get a used new car in her name.
What happened
In April 2018, Ms K says a third party, who Ill call A, asked her to take out finance in her 
name, so that they could get a used car. She says she allowed A to use her details. But in 
view if her financial circumstances, she didnt think an application for further borrowing would 
succeed.
Ms K says A applied for a hire purchase agreement in her name with BMF, in May 2018. 
She says she only found out about it a month later, when BMF sent a confirmation letter. 
BMFs records show that Ms K contacted them soon after the agreement was taken out, to 
tell them what A had done and that she didnt have access to the car. Ms K also says she 
told BMF she had contacted the police and had been given a crime reference number. In 
response, BMF said they needed more information from the police, to be able to investigate 
her concerns.
Over the next two years Ms K continued to make payments due under the agreement. She 
says she did this partly to avoid adverse information on her credit file. But, mainly because 
Ms K says A and the dealer had made threats to her, to stop her from trying to end the 
agreement.
In October 2020, Ms K complained to BMF. She said BMF hadnt done enough checks to 
make sure she could afford the payments towards the agreement. She also said she didnt 
sign the agreement and that A had taken it out without her authorisation.
In their final response, BMF said Ms K was aware of the application and that they had 
checked her financial circumstances with an external agency, to show she could meet the 
repayments. BMF also said they couldnt have taken her previous concerns forward, without 
more evidence from the police and that Ms K was still liable for the repayments.
Ms K didnt accept BMFs response and brought her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Ms Ks case and found that BMF hadnt treated her fairly. The 
investigator said it was likely Ms K was aware of the application and had agreed to it. But, 
that she had come under pressure from A to allow them to keep using the car.
The investigator concluded that BMF didnt do enough to check Ms K could afford the 
repayments. So, she asked BMF to refund all the charges and interest applied under the 
agreement and for any adverse information to be removed form Ms Ks credit file. Because 
Ms K wanted to keep the car, the investigator also asked BMF to pay interest on any amount 
she had paid over the cash price of the car. Or, if there was still a balance to pay, she said 
BMF should come to an affordable repayment plan with Ms K.
Ms K accepted the investigators findings, but BMF didnt. They said they accepted the risk 
when they chose to provide the borrowing for the car. BMF also said they didnt think it was 
fair to pay interest to Ms K, as she would be in a better position overall.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions and Ms Ks case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This case is about an application for a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated 
financial product. As such, we are able to consider complaints about it.
The start of the hire purchase agreement
Throughout her complaint with BMF, Ms K says she agreed to work with A, to see if she 
could take out car finance in her name. I acknowledge that Ms K says she did this as she 
didnt think an application would be accepted by a lender. And that she was simply trying to 
help A with their personal circumstances.
Ive thought about Ms Ks involvement with A and Ive looked at the application records 
provided by BMF. Having done so, I think Ms Ks personal and contact details were used in 
the application for the hire purchase agreement. Furthermore, I can see that BMF sent 
confirmation of the agreement to Ms K and that she contacted BMF soon afterwards.
Overall, I accept Ms K very quickly regretted her involvement with A and the application to 
BMF. On balance, Im persuaded by what Ms K says, in that she found herself in very 
difficult and worrying circumstances, after the agreement had started.
But, having considered everything, I think Ms K was aware of the application for the hire 
purchase agreement and had authorised the contract with BMF. So, I think BMF treated 
Ms K fairly when they started processing the application from her in April 2018.
BMFs checks before the borrowing was agreed
The relevant regulations and guidance for BMF to have followed are included in the
Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). BMF was entering a 
regulated credit agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Ms K 
would be able to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including, but not limited to, the particular circumstances of Ms K. 
For example, her financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing 
and cost of credit Ms K applied for, would also be considered.
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to Ms K of not being able to repay the 
credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check ought
to have been carried out by BMF.
The hire purchase agreement meant Ms K borrowed around £25,000 from BMF to get the 
used car. This was repayable over five years and with interest added, Ms K was required to 
make monthly repayments of around £600.To assess if Ms K could sustain the repayments, BMF say they asked Ms K about her 
annual income and employment status. Their records show Ms K told them her annual 
income was around £29,500 and that she was employed full time. 
BMF say their checks with an external agency showed Ms K had a net monthly income of 
around £1,900. And that, amongst other things, Ms K had an existing car finance agreement, 
a current account and a credit card account. BMFs records show Ms K had missed some 
repayments to her credit card account and that its balance at the time was significant 
compared to her monthly income.
I can also see from BMFs records that Miss K and A had discussed a different finance 
agreement, before the hire purchase contract was put into place. The notes from the first 
proposal show Ms Ks income as around £6,000 more than BMF eventually said it was and 
that her job description is different. The notes from BMF also show that they wanted Ms K to 
end her existing car finance agreement with a different lender, before they could agree to the 
new loan.
Overall, I think the size of the loan compared to Ms Ks income, the missed payment 
information and discrepancies with the initial proposal, were indicators to BMF to ask for 
further information. I accept that BMF wanted Ms K to repay her exiting car finance 
agreement. But I cannot see that she did this until long after the hire purchase agreement 
was put into place.
Having considered everything, I dont think BMF completed reasonable or proportionate 
checks to show Ms K could sustain the repayments due under the agreement. I accept BMF 
used an outside agency to verify Ms Ks income information. But in light of everything, I still 
think further details, such as payslips or bank statements would have done more to support 
the fairness of their lending decision.
So, Ive gone on to consider what further information any further checks by BMF would
have revealed.
Ms K has provided us with bank statements for the three months prior to the beginning of the 
agreement with BMF. Having looked at the statements, I can see that Ms Ks income from 
her employer was lower than the amount on BMFs records. I can also see Ms K was in 
receipt of benefit payments, which made up some of that difference.
Ive considered Ms Ks monthly expenditure and her regular payments for household bills, 
regular costs and her childcare fees. I can also see the payments she made to her other 
creditors at the time. 
Having done so, I think had BMF looked at further information, it would reveal that Ms K 
didnt have sufficient funds left after her regular expenditure, to make the loan repayments 
under the hire purchase agreement.
Additionally, further checks on the credit card account would have showed that in April 2018, 
Ms K was making token monthly repayments on a debt of around £4,000. Against this 
background, I think Ms K financial circumstances were difficult, in that she wasnt able to 
repay the minimum repayments to another lender.
From looking at this information alone, I think BMF would have seen that the hire purchase 
agreement wasnt affordable to Ms K, had further information been sought.
In all the circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate checks would havedemonstrated that Ms K would not have been able to make the repayments to the loan 
without borrowing further or suffering undue difficulty. 
And, in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would have 
alerted BMF to the fact that Ms K was in no sort of position to make the payments on this 
loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think BMF treated Ms K fairly when they agreed 
to the borrowing under the hire purchase agreement. So, I think its fair for BMF to provide a 
remedy to Ms K.
Overall, I think its fair for BMF to refund all the charges and interest theyve applied to the 
agreement, leaving Ms K to pay the balance of what she borrowed. I also think its fair for 
BMF to remove any adverse information theyve recorded with credit reference agencies 
about the hire purchase agreement.
Next steps for the agreement and the car
Ive concluded that BMF should reduce the outstanding balance of the hire purchase 
agreement, by refunding the charges and interest theyve applied under the contract. The 
cash price of the car was £28,299. By making monthly repayments of around £600, over the 
last four years, Ms K may have repaid nearly all of that cash price.
Although Ms K says that shes struggled to maintain the payments, shed like to keep the 
car. And I think BMF stands to get back the purchase price of the car they financed through 
the dealer. So, after BMF has completed the refund of charges and interest, I think its fair for 
Ms K to keep use of the car.
Should the refund of interest and charges place the agreement into a credit balance, then I 
think its fair for the agreement to be ended. I think it will be possible for Ms K to then talk to 
BMF about taking ownership of the car.
In these circumstances, I think BMF should calculate when Ms K reached the purchase 
price, so they can see how much shes paid in excess of it. 
Ms K has been without the use of those funds, because they were instead paid to BMF. So, I 
think its fair for BMF to pay Ms K interest at an annual rate of 8% simple, from the date Ms K 
would have repaid the purchase price of the car, to the date of settlement.
However, its also possible that there still may be a balance payable by Ms K, after the 
refund of interest and charges. In other words, her repayments may have not yet exceeded 
the purchase price. In these circumstances, I think its fair for the agreement to continue, 
until that balance is repaid by Ms K.
I think its fair for BMF to then engage with Ms K, to talk about the level of repayments she 
can afford for any remaining balance. In doing so, I remind BMF of their responsibility to treat 
Ms Ks financial circumstances with forbearance and due consideration.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint BMF should:
1. refund all interest and charges applied to Ms Ks hire purchase agreement to reduce 
the outstanding balance;2. add interest to any credit balance created after part one is applied, at an annual rate 
of 8% simple, from the date Ms K would have repaid the cash price (£28,299) of the 
car, to the date of settlement; 
3. arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms K, for any outstanding balance 
remaining, after part one of this settlement is applied; and
4. remove any adverse information about the hire purchase agreement, recorded with 
credit reference agencies. 
BMF must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Ms K accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If BMF deducts tax from any interest they pay to Ms K, they should provide Ms K with a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman