DRN-3583817
The complaint
Mr K complains that the valuation carried out on behalf of Lloyds Bank PLC failed to pick up 
defects in his property correctly. 
What happened
Mr K took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 2017 to buy a property. Mr K recently found a 
problem with the property. Mr K says the valuation carried out on behalf of Lloyds should 
have revealed the extent of the defects and the survey should have referred him to seek 
advice on the issue from a structural engineer. 
Mr K says had Lloyds picked up on this he could have made a different choice when 
purchasing the property. Mr K says hell suffer a financial loss due to the cost of putting the 
defect right. 
Our investigator said the valuation was carried out for the benefit of Lloyds, to help it decide 
whether to lend on the property. He said that the valuation carried out on behalf of Lloyds 
had highlighted any issues that Mr K needed to consider and appropriately notified him of 
the steps he needed to consider. He also said Lloyds hadnt acted unreasonably in 
accepting the valuation. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr K didnt agree. Mr K said the surveyor instructed by Lloyds should have advised him 
correctly on what further steps he needed to take and because the valuation was needed as 
part of the mortgage Lloyds should be the party to raise a complaint about the surveyor that 
carried out the valuation. Because Mr K didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K applied to Lloyds for a mortgage in 2017. Lloyds instructed a valuation. This was for 
Lloyds benefit, to help it assess whether the property was good security for the loan. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
Lloyds instructed a qualified surveyor, a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered 
Surveyors. I think Lloyds met its responsibility to appoint a suitably qualified person to carry 
out the valuation. And there is no suggestion there was anything in the valuation report that 
made it unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on it when making its lending decision. 
Mr K chose the valuation report. The guidance notes say that this was a limited inspection 
highlighting only those items the surveyor considered will materially affect the value. If Mr K 
wanted a more detailed survey, hed have needed to request (and pay) for this. 
I must make it clear though that I cant substitute my own view for that of the surveyor. Im 
not qualified to do so, and it wouldnt be appropriate. All I can consider against Lloyds is if it 
discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having considered 
everything Im satisfied it did. 
Mr K says that recently there were cracks appearing on his property, so hed asked for a 
structural engineers report. The report highlighted that there was a defect with the roof, and 
it was likely that the defect was already present when he purchased the property. 
Mr K feels strongly that he was incorrectly advised at the time and rather than seeking a 
structural engineers report he was told to instruct a tradesman to look at the potential defect. 
But having considered the evidence I dont agree.
In the valuation report under the heading Matters Affecting Value it stated that the property 
was acceptable for lending purposes but also highlighted that there were some items of wear 
and tear and that maintenance, repair and upgrading was required. The surveyor also 
highlighted that strengthening is required to the roof structure and that Mr K should arrange 
for installation of additional support. 
Further down in the Advice for Applicants section it says Problems or issues may have 
been highlighted and you should get your own independent advice. You may require reports 
and estimates. When obtaining them we would suggest you use a reputable contractor with 
an insurance backed guarantee and if applicable adequate professional indemnity insurance 
and who is preferably a member of a trade organisation.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably following the 
valuation. The valuation indicated the property was suitable for lending purposes for Lloyds 
and thats all that Lloyds needed to consider in order to lend on the property. The report also 
highlighted some issues which the surveyor felt Mr K needed to consider. The valuation 
report was sent to Mr K and his conveyancer and it was then for Mr K, not Lloyds, to seek 
the necessary independent advice in relation to the issues highlighted.
Mr K has said he instructed a local contractor at the time who told him there wasnt any 
defects in the roof, so he didnt take any further action at the time. Mr K has told us he wasnt 
provided a report from the local contractor about the findings. But this is a matter between 
Mr K and the local contractor he instructed, and I cant fairly say Lloyds should have done 
more.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to pay 
compensation for the cost of any potential work to the property or for any possible effect on 
its value.
I sympathise with the position Mr K has found himself in. I can understand why he feels the 
valuation was flawed and that he has lost out as a result of that. It is perfectly reasonable for 
him to want his questions answered from Lloyds and the surveyors. Ive already explained 
why I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably. And in regard to the complaint against the 
surveyors it is for Lloyds to decide what to do. It is not for me to consider the arrangements 
that Lloyds has with surveyors or what steps it takes to assure itself that valuations are being 
carried out competently. 
Again, I understand why Mr K feels that he has lost out and wants things looked at. But Im 
sorry to disappoint Mr K as I cant in the circumstances here require Lloyds to do anything.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Jag Dhuphar
Ombudsman