DRN-3118504
The complaint
 Mr G complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited (MCE) has refused to pay the
storage costs incurred to store his motorcycle following it rejecting a claim that it later
accepted under his motorcycle policy.
What happened
 Mr Gs motorcycle was stolen in May 2018, he made a claim under his motorcycle 
insurance policy. MCE initially accepted the claim and made an offer to settle it, but Mr G 
wasnt happy with the settlement offer and so disputed it.
While the settlement amount was in dispute Mr Gs motorcycle was recovered with general
damage to it and MCE declined the claim, as it said on inspection it believed the steering
lock wasnt engaged at the time of the theft.
Mr G brought a complaint about MCEs rejection of the claim to this service.
On 5 December 2018 MCE sent an email to Mr G it said:
Morning. No contact has been received by the transport team despite several calls
texts and emails. The bike has now been moved to the disposal process and you will
be contacted by the abandonment team to advise of disposal.
Mr G replied to this email saying he had not received any calls texts or emails. This was
followed by another email from MCE on the 7 December 2018 saying:
Morning.
All contact via email was to the email address in which you have replied to. Call or
MCE arrange the return is free storage ended.
Following this the motorcycle was returned to Mr G.
An Ombudsman issued a final decision on Mr Gs complaint about the rejection of his claim
on 10 December 2020, instructing or MCE to settle the claim.
Based on the recommendations in the Ombudsmans final decision, MCE offered a
settlement to Mr G. Mr G then informed MCE that since it had returned the motorcycle to him
it had been in storage incurring costs of £100 per month. Mr G asked MCE to pay these
costs, it declined. And so, Mr G made a complaint  he said he didnt want to settle the claim
and relinquish the bike to MCE unless the storage costs were settled.
MCE said it was not responsible for the storage. It said it was not obliged to purchase the
salvage of a vehicle and as Mr G didnt want to release the motorcycle to MCE it would be
settling Mr Gs claim on the basis of him retaining the salvage. But it would, as a gesture of
goodwill, reduce the salvage costs to 25% of the value of the motorcycle instead of its usual
40%.
Mr G was unhappy with this resolution and so referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Gs complaint. In summary he said:
The storage costs were a direct result of MCE unfairly declining Mr Gs claim.
MCEs free storage had ended in December 2018, and it, by returning the bike to Mr 
G while his complaint here was ongoing, had transferred those storage costs to him.
Mr G was unable to store his bike on the street because of the damage it had 
incurred and so he had no choice but to place it in storage.
MCE did have an obligation to purchase the salvage of the vehicle as per its terms 
and conditions which state the following:
If your motorcycle is considered to be a total loss and the insurance policy covers a
single vehicle it will end when you accept our offer. The maximum amount we will
pay will be the claim value of your motorcycle immediately prior to the loss.
If you are paying your premium by instalments under credit agreement the
outstanding premium will be deducted from your total loss settlement. Your
motorcycle then becomes our property
To put things right MCE should either pay for Mr Gs motorcycle to be released from 
storage or pay Mr G directly once he provides an invoice for the costs. MCE should 
then collect the motorcycle and settle the claim as previously instructed.
MCE disagreed with the investigators findings, it said Mr G did not inform MCE that the
vehicle was in storage until March 2021 and therefore it had not had the opportunity to
mitigate storage costs by collecting the bike while his previous complaint was ongoing.
It said it had recently taken steps to attempt to mitigate storage charges whilst this current
complaint was ongoing however Mr G had not yet provided the required information for it to
collect the motorcycle.
It has provided evidence to show it contacted Mr G on 28 June and 1 July asking to arrange
collection of the motorcycle. Mr G responded on 8 July asking for confirmation that MCE
wouldnt start charging him for storage and that the motorcycle would be returned to him free
of charge if his complaint wasnt settled in his favour. MCE responded to this by email on 13
July asking for the address of the storage facility so it could arrange collection. It also said
that if Mr G didnt progress his claim it may follow its abandonment process and charges
could occur at that point but that it would return the motorcycle to him free of charge if he
chose it to do so.
The matter was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional findings on 6 October 2021, 
I agreed with the investigator that the Mr Gs case should be upheld but gave an amended 
redress to reflect MCEs attempts to mitigate the rising storage costs. In my provisional 
findings I said: 
The emails from MCE to Mr G on 5 and 7 December 2018 really gave him no choice but to
accept the return of the motorcycle from MCE. The emails made clear to him that if he didn't
the disposal process would be started, as free storage had ended.
MCE was aware that Mr G's complaint, regarding it declining his claim, was ongoing with this
service - it could have chosen to store the motorcycle until the complaint process was
completed. But as it didnt do this the responsibility of the safekeeping of the motorcycle,
while the complaint was being dealt with, transferred to Mr G.
Mr G, rightly, didn't dispose of his motorcycle, even though it was damaged, as it wassubject to the ongoing claim dispute. And so, in order to retain it he had to store it. He has
said he had no alternative but to place the motorcycle into paid storage, as he didn't have
anywhere to keep it and the damage it had suffered, as a result of the theft, meant it was
unsafe to leave it on the street. I've seen no evidence to suggest otherwise and so I accept
this is the case.
In the previously issued decision, the ombudsman decided that MCE had acted unfairly in
declining Mr G's claim. But for this there would have been no storage fees and so I can't
fairly say that Mr G should be responsible for them.
Mr G has said the storage costs are accruing at £100 per month. MCE has evidenced with
the emails detailed above that it has tried to mitigate these costs in trying to arrange to
collect the motorcycle, but that Mr G has stopped responding. Because of this I don't think
it's fair to ask MCE to cover all of the storage costs. Mr G's last response to MCE was on 8
July 2021 where he confirmed the storage costs to date was £2,900. I think it's reasonable
that MCE should cover the costs until that date, and any costs beyond then should be met
by Mr G.
In order for MCE to cover the costs, Mr G should provide evidence of the costs, by way of
invoice or similar. As well as this he should provide the details for MCE to be able to arrange
collection, so the claim can be progressed to settlement. Upon settlement of the claim the
motorcycle will become the property of MCE in line with the terms and conditions of the
policy.
MCE should pay the storage company directly unless Mr G has already done so, in which
case he will need to show evidence of this to MCE so it can pay him directly. If Mr G has
already made payment, then MCE should add 8% simple interest to any payments he has
made from the date he has made them until the date it pays him.
To put things right MCE should:
Pay, either directly to the storage company or to Mr G, based on the conditions 
above, £2,900 for the storage costs incurred up to and including 8 July 2021.
If Mr G is able to evidence that he has already made the payments MCE should add 
8% simple interest from the date Mr G paid the costs until the date it pays him.
I invited both parties to respond.
Mr G responded saying he had no further points to make.
MCE also responded in summary it said:
It was unaware the motorcycle was in storage until March 2021 and had it known it 
could have taken action earlier to mitigate the costs.
Mr G had still not provided it with any evidence of storage costs 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have to tell MCE its comments havent changed things for me, Ill explain.
As I explained in my provisional findings MCE told Mr G in emails in December 2018 that 
free storage had ended and so the motorcycle needed to be returned to him or would be disposed of. Given this, I can see why Mr G didnt think to tell MCE storage cost were being 
incurred, as he wouldnt have been aware there was an option for free storage with MCE 
while his dispute was being settled.  
In its business file submission to this service MCE said it became aware of the storage costs 
in December 2020, but it made no attempt until, its email to Mr G, in June 2021 to mitigate 
these. So, Im not persuaded even if Mr G had told MCE earlier that it would have collected 
the motorcycle to mitigate the costs. As such my decision remains unchanged in that MCE 
should cover the storage costs up to 8 July 2021 on receipt of evidence, of them, from Mr G.
I should point out that if Mr G is unable to provide evidence to show storage cost are owing 
or have already been paid then MCE will not have to make a payment towards storage 
costs. Mr G should now engage with MCE to allow it to collect the motorcycle and settle his 
claim, as it was instructed to in the final decision issued, by this service, on 10 December 
2020.
Putting things right
To put things right here MCE should now;
 Pay, either directly to the storage company or to Mr G, based on the conditions 
above, £2,900 for the storage costs incurred up to and including 8 July 2021.
If Mr G is able to evidence that he has already made the payments MCE should add 
8% simple interest from the date Mr G paid the costs until the date it pays him.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint about 
MCE Insurance Company Limited and now require it to:
 Pay, either directly to the storage company or to Mr G, based on the conditions 
above, £2,900 for the storage costs incurred up to and including 8 July 2021.
If Mr G is able to evidence that he has already made the payments MCE should add 
8% simple interest from the date Mr G paid the costs until the date it pays him.
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs may require that MCE deduct tax from the interest paid to Mr G. If it does 
and Mr G requests it, MCE must provide him with a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off, so he may 
reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman