DRN-3448383
The complaint
Mr N complains delays in Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (BM) 
providing confirmation theyd allow the charge over his property to be released if he sold it at 
a shortfall, has caused him financial loss.
Mr N is represented in this complaint by his solicitors.
What happened
Mr N had an interest only mortgage with BM which was coming to an end in September 
2019. Knowing hed have to pay the mortgage back, he put the property on the market and 
in December 2019 agreed to sell it for around £170,000. His estate agents told him that 
was above market value, but he was still in negative equity.
In January 2020, Mr N instructed his solicitors to deal with the sale. The solicitors asked 
BM at the beginning of January to confirm their requirements, given the shortfall, for 
discharging the mortgage once the sale had gone through. When BM didnt reply, the 
solicitors chased them at the end of the month.
At the end of February BM asked the solicitors to resubmit their request for a redemption 
statement as the property address information didnt match their records. They provided a 
redemption figure in mid-March. The notes attached to that letter set out that they wouldnt 
release the charge if they received insufficient funds and theyd recover any shortfall from 
Mr N. The solicitors replied asking BM to confirm theyd agree to discharge the mortgage if 
Mr N paid them the net proceeds of sale even though there would be a shortfall. They 
noted the buyer was ready to exchange contracts and said BMs delay was holding up the 
sale.
BM didnt reply and the solicitors chased them again on 12 May 2020 and 19 June 2020. 
Theyd also tried unsuccessfully to contact BM by phone. They pointed out the delay was 
causing Mr N to pay additional interest when the sale could go ahead, and the mortgage 
debt could be crystallised.
At the end of July 2020 the solicitors said since theyd been unable to give an undertaking to 
discharge the mortgage, the buyer had withdrawn from buying the property and the chance 
to discharge the mortgage and reduce what Mr N owed BM had been lost. The estate agents 
had advised Mr N that to sell the house at that point, he may need to reduce the price. The 
solicitors again asked BM to say what their requirements for discharging the mortgage were 
if a further sale could be agreed, and they made a complaint about BMs failure to respond 
on that issue. Mr N had another offer to buy the property for around £167,500 at the end of 
July 2020.
In response to the complaint, BM said they hadnt been able to respond to the solicitors 
to answer the questions theyd raised, as they didnt have authority to deal with them. 
They had, however, been trying to contact Mr N direct. BM explained that because of the 
coronavirus pandemic, all negative equity applications had been put on hold from 20 
May 2020 and apologised for failing to let the solicitors know. They asked the solicitors 
to get Mr Ns authority for them to discuss things with the solicitors going forward.
Mr Ns solicitors brought his complaint to this service in October 2020 as they were 
unhappy with BMs response. Our investigator thought thered been a lack of 
communication by BM which had obstructed the sale process for Mr N. BM acknowledged 
they could have done more to make all parties aware they needed Mr Ns specific authority 
for the solicitors to manage their negative equity process on his behalf. They agreed to pay 
the £600 compensation our investigator felt was fair to resolve Mr Ns complaint. Mr N didnt 
think that covered all his losses and didnt accept our investigators view. So, his complaint 
was passed to me to look at afresh.
I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ns financial difficulties and the problems that have arisen as hes 
tried to sell his property. Im aware things have moved on since Mr N made his complaint 
in July 2020. This decision only considers what happened up to the date BM responded to 
his complaint on 25 August 2020. Mr Ns solicitors are aware he needs to make a 
separate complaint to BM about whats happened since then. Mr N can bring that 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman, once BM have had the chance to respond, if he 
remains unhappy.
From the available information I can see BM were in contact with Mr N over a long period 
leading up to the end of his mortgage term to discuss the arrears on his account. In 
August 2019 BM discussed with Mr N putting a hold on any recovery action while he 
looked to sell the property. They reviewed his account regularly. But, unfortunately, there 
was poor communication between the parties involved in this complaint after that.
As I understand it, BM were unable to agree to their security over Mr Ns property being 
discharged until theyd considered if Mr N qualified for their negative equity scheme. I 
understand that under the scheme, which is discretionary, BM may allow a customer to sell 
their property with negative equity and arrange to pay the shortfall through a payment plan if 
BMs scheme requirements are met. A borrower has to be in negative equity, have a buyer 
lined up, not be buying another property and have discussed their options with BMs toolkit 
team. From what Ive seen, I dont think BM explained the process to Mr N or his solicitors 
during the period this complaint covers, although they tried to contact Mr N about the 
negative equity situation.
The solicitors said BM knew they were acting for Mr N and they had sufficient authority to 
provide them with the redemption figures theyd asked for. If further authority was needed 
to consider the request about releasing the charge given the negative equity situation, 
theyd expect BM to have told them. The solicitors complained they hadnt been able to get 
through to BM on the phone and that Mr N had had a similar experience. They said Mr N 
didnt hear anything from BM until a letter dated 22 July 2020 asking him to contact BMs 
toolkit team, but his calls to them werent answered.
BM explained they hadnt been able to correspond with Mr Ns solicitors about the request 
to release their charge as they didnt have appropriate authority from Mr N to do so. They 
acknowledge they could have explained that to the solicitors. But they said theyd tried unsuccessfully to discuss things with Mr N. Ive looked at BMs records and can see that, 
although they didnt make the solicitors aware, theyd been trying to discuss things with Mr 
N both before and after hed instructed his solicitors to deal with the sale of his property. 
They found it difficult to get in touch with Mr N, and their records suggest he didnt always 
respond to their attempts to contact him.
BM knew there was negative equity on the property by early October 2019. They 
understood from speaking to the estate agent in early December 2019 that an offer had 
been received, and that in early January 2020 the sale process was in its early stages. 
They tried unsuccessfully to speak to Mr N, but he doesnt appear to have returned their 
call.
In January 2020 BM let Mr N know theyd asked an agent to visit Mr N at the property to 
discuss his situation. Field agents went to his property twice in February. Although they 
thought his property was occupied, no one answered, and they didnt succeed in speaking 
to Mr N then. BM rang Mr N twice at the end of the month to discuss the negative equity 
position. Theres no record he returned their calls. They did speak to Mr N when his 
solicitors wrote to them at the beginning of March. He said hed contact his solicitors and 
get back to BM with an update.
BM issued a redemption statement to the solicitors in mid-March. But by mid-April they 
had no record of Mr N contacting them to discuss the negative equity application. And 
despite several attempts to ring him, they couldnt get hold of Mr N. BM tried to speak to 
Mr Ns solicitors on around 22 May to let them know negative equity applications were on 
hold, but werent able to speak to anyone there.
I understand that whilst BM considered Mr Ns solicitors had authority to receive 
information about the redemption figure, they required separate authority to discuss the 
negative equity scheme. I dont think thats unreasonable. But I think they could have 
made that clear when Mr Ns solicitors first asked them about discharging the shortfall in 
January 2020. BM have acknowledged they didnt do enough to make all parties aware 
they needed specific authority for the solicitors to manage the negative equity process on 
Mr Ns behalf and that potentially this could have avoided delays.
But I think BM made reasonable efforts to contact Mr N to discuss things and, from what 
Ive seen, he often didnt respond to them. So, whilst I can understand Mr Ns solicitors 
found BMs lack of response frustrating, Mr Ns failure to speak to BM contributed to the 
overall delays.
I understand that once Mr Ns solicitors were aware of the process that needed to be 
followed, a discussion took place between Mr N, his solicitors and the toolkit team in 
around October 2020. Its possible that discussion could have happened sooner if Mr Ns 
solicitors had been aware of the process earlier and theyd been able to advise Mr N about 
it. But I dont think that ought to have been necessary. If Mr N had responded to BMs 
attempt to contact him in early 2020, I think its more likely than not they could have 
explained the process he needed to follow and the authority they needed to speak to his 
solicitors about it.
Even if Mr N had made an application sooner, I cant be sure it would have been 
considered before the scheme was put on hold in May 2020; how quickly an outcome 
would have been known if it had been considered sooner; whether the application would 
have succeeded; and if it would have saved Mr Ns sale. So, whilst I understand Mr N has 
incurred additional fees and charges because of the sale falling through, and the value of 
his property fell, I cant reasonably say BM is responsible for that.Overall I think BM could have done more, as theyve accepted, to let Mr N and his solicitors 
know they needed specific authority for the solicitors to manage the negative equity 
process on Mr Ns behalf and what the process entailed. Despite the solicitors writing over 
several months, BM failed to respond on that issue. I can understand losing the sale will 
have caused Mr N distress and inconvenience given his already difficult financial 
circumstances, the impact a reduction in the value of the property would have on the 
shortfall debt he will owe BM, and the time and effort involved in marketing the property 
again. Bearing everything in mind, I think its fair and reasonable for BM to pay Mr N the 
£600 compensation theyre prepared to pay to put things right.
My provisional decision
I intend to direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay £600 
compensation to Mr N for distress and inconvenience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Birmingham Midshires accepted my provisional decision and Mr N hasnt made any 
comments on it. So, I see no reason to change the conclusions in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I think Birmingham Midshires should 
pay Mr N £600 compensation. 
My final decision
I direct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires to pay Mr N £600 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman