DRN-4082561
The complaint
Mr N complains that Monzo Bank Ltd refused to carry out a chargeback in respect of a 
payment he made to a company (B). He believed that B was perpetrating a scam.
What happened
In February 2022 Mr N purchased a starter pack from B which included credits giving him 
access to a number of professional leads (regarding job/career opportunities). He found that 
none of the leads provided were viable either through no response, invalid emails, or 
telephone numbers. B confirmed under its Get Hired Guarantee it would refund credits to 
Mr Ns account but couldnt offer a cash refund. And its terms and conditions stated that the 
starter pack was non-refundable.
Mr N attempted to raise a chargeback with Monzo. He said that B was operating a scam. 
Monzo said it couldnt treat the transaction as fraudulent as Mr N had provided his card 
details to B, so had authorised the transaction. It agreed to consider raising a dispute with a 
possible chargeback. But it ultimately declined to do so as under Bs terms and conditions 
the starter pack cost was non-refundable and B would refund credits to Mr Ns account with 
it, not a cash refund.  It apologised for the time it took to deal with Mr Ns dispute and for him 
having to verify his identity multiple times and paid him £30 for the inconvenience.
Mr N complained further that Monzo had asked him to provide evidence of fake email 
addresses / telephone numbers and that Monzo had not acted on that evidence. He also 
pointed out numerous reviews on review platforms by people who had had similar 
experiences to him.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our Investigator said that there wasnt 
enough evidence to suggest that B was operating a scam, so Monzo had acted reasonably 
in not regarding it as that. She also said that in respect of chargeback Monzo had 
reasonably declined to operate the process as B had complied with its own terms and 
conditions.
Mr M didnt agree and said that had Monzo gone through the chargeback process it would 
have been successful.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was it a fraudulent transaction?
Under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 Monzo wasnt required to recall the payment 
and/or refund it unless B had acted fraudulently. For me to consider there was fraud I would 
need to see strong evidence of this. The fact that B appears to be a genuine company and 
that there has been no fraud investigation into the company would appear to confirm that it 
didnt act fraudulently. The fact that a number  of reviews online show unhappy customers 
who regard the way it acts as a scam is not evidence of fraud. And as Monzo pointed out, 
Mr N authorised the use of his card for the transaction, while being aware of Bs terms and 
conditions. Im satisfied that, on the evidence Ive seen, Monzo acted reasonably in not 
treating this as fraud.
chargeback dispute
Monzo agreed to consider this as a possible chargeback dispute. First of all Mr N sent 
several emails and he was asked to confirm his identity each time. Whilst I understand that 
this was an inconvenience for him, nevertheless it was necessary to confirm the emails 
genuinely came from him.
Monzo initially said it wasnt raising the matter as a chargeback because B had complied 
with its own terms and conditions. It did suggest that it would look at it further if Mr M could 
provide evidence of invalid email addresses or telephone numbers. It said that Bs terms and 
conditions said a cash refund could be provided in those circumstances.
In fact that wasnt the case as B would only give a refund of credits to his account and did 
so. When Mr N provided that further evidence Monzo did then say in its email of 14 June 
2022 that: 
We aren't under any obligation to raise a chargeback but we try to do so in any cases we're 
able to. In this case, [card scheme provider] wouldn't accept a dispute for this transaction 
because the merchant has provided a service and the terms state the payment is non
refundable.
Im sure that Mr N feels he has a genuine grievance with B in that it didnt provide him with 
any successful leads, with a number of those provided having been uncontactable. But the 
chargeback scheme operated by banks is subject to the rules of the relevant card scheme 
provider, in this case M, set out in its Chargeback Guide. These provide that a dispute may 
be opened where: 
 Goods and services did not conform to their description
Goods or Services Were Either Not as Described or Defective
The merchant did not honour the terms and conditions of the contract with the cardholder
including, but not limited to, 100 percent money back guarantee, written promises, or return
policy.
Here Mr N agreed to buy a starter pack containing a number of credits under terms that it 
was non-refundable. And although Mr N received a number of leads with invalid email 
addresses and/or telephone numbers, the remedy provided in that situation was for B to 
refund his credits to his account with it which it did. So B provided a service which it carried 
out in accordance with its terms and conditions.
So I think Monzo acted reasonably in not starting the chargeback process, because it 
adjudged that such a process would not succeed.
I understand that Mr N was unhappy with the process and the delays, and in providing 
evidence which Monzo later dismissed. But I think the chargeback would likely have failed in 
this case. And Monzo has paid him £30 for the inconvenience which I think is reasonable. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman