DRN-2431133
The complaint
Mr E complains that Stephen McDine IFA Limited (Stephen McDine Limited) incorrectly 
advised him that making a pension contribution to his plan would reduce his income for tax 
purposes. Mr E says that, as result of the advice, he has no savings and a tax bill to pay as 
well as the possibility of having to repay previously awarded tax credits. He wants an 
apology and compensation for the financial losses hes suffered. 
What happened
Mr E held two separate pension plans. In 2019 he decided to transfer funds from one plan to 
another, so they were roughly the same value. He contacted Stephen McDine Limited to 
carry out the transfer and also wanted it to answer a query about the values of the two 
pensions and advise him on whether, if he made a contribution to one of the plans, it would 
reduce his income for tax purposes.  
  
In an email from 1 February 2019 Mr E said, I want to avoid paying any tax for this financial 
year I think I will earn about £17,000, so I plan to pay £6,000 into my pension fund. Am I 
right in thinking that this will reduce my income for tax purposes down to £11,000? Stephen 
McDine Limited said it would. Mr E made the contribution directly to the provider soon 
afterwards.
Mr E continued to correspond with Stephen McDine Limited  especially as he needed to 
complete his self-assessment tax form. Stephen McDine Limited told Mr E to contact HMRC 
about its completion and following further advice Mr E established that the information hed 
been given by Stephen McDine Limited was incorrect. Mr E felt that, following Stephen 
McDine Limiteds involvement, hed needlessly put all his savings into his pension plan. He 
also said hed be affected in respect of how much tax he paid. 
 
Stephen McDine Limited said that Mr E would receive tax relief on his contribution which 
would mean that his pension was augmented by £1,500. It said, paying money into your 
pension will reduce your tax bill it does not reduce your income. It also said it may have 
misunderstood whether Mr E was only actually earning £8,000  which meant he wouldnt 
pay any tax. 
Mr E said that, as Stephen McDine Limited now accepted that the answer to his question 
about reducing his income should have been no, he wanted compensation for the loss he 
said hed suffered. He said hed received a tax bill for £1,260.46 and was also concerned 
about having to repay tax credits hed previously received and that he might not receive the 
credits  or that theyd be reduced, going forward. 
Stephen McDine Limited said it hadnt given Mr E any advice and no fee had been charged 
or indeed was payable. It said Mr E had gone directly to the pension provider to make the 
contribution who also confirmed no advice was given.
But Mr E remained unhappy with the outcome, so he brought his complaint to us where one 
of our investigators looked into the matter. She didnt think Stephen McDine Limited had 
done anything wrong and made the following points:
She thought Stephen McDine Limiteds email was technically correct as it was 
possible to offset any income tax charged with any tax relief payable on pension 
contributions. 
The email could have been clearer but Stephen McDine Limited wasnt providing 
formal tax advice  just a quick response to a question, as explained in the footer of 
its emails. 
Stephen McDine Limited didnt advise Mr E to pay his savings into a pension or 
suggest whether he should either pay into his pension or change his work van  
which Mr E had suggested he could have done as an alternative.
Mr E said he could have bought the van in March 2019 but didnt pay into the 
pension until April 2019 which suggested he decided against buying a new van. 
Mr E had a tax liability based on his income and it was for HMRC to calculate the tax 
he needed to pay. So, he should query with HMRC if he believed a mistake had been 
made. 
Mr E didnt agree. He said that Stephen McDine Limited had given an incorrect answer to his 
question about reducing his income for tax purposes. He asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for review. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Es complaint shouldnt be upheld but I provided 
further reasoning around my findings. In summary I said:
I thought Mr E had taken Stephen McDine Limiteds response to his email slightly out 
of context without considering the full answer. I said the response could have been 
clearer, but it was provided in good faith and meant to provide the correct 
information. The response appeared to be more focused on the benefits of the tax 
relief available rather than Mr Es income tax position.
It was difficult to conclude Stephen McDine Limited had misled Mr E over his income 
tax position. 
But I understood why Mr E might have thought the response confirmed that making a 
pension contribution would have reduced his income for tax liability purposes.
However, Mr E had earned £17,000 and would always have had to pay income tax 
on that amount of income. The pension contribution would have enabled him to 
receive tax relief which would have reduced his overall tax burden and left him in the 
same situation as he now finds himself. If Stephen McDine Limited had provided full 
advice at that time I think it would have explained the benefit of the tax relief in more 
detail and would, most likely, have led to Mr E making the same decision to make a 
pension contribution  because of that benefit. 
There was no evidence that Mr E had told Stephen McDine Limited of his alternative 
plan to buy a van instead of making a pension contribution. And if hed left his 
savings where they were that wouldnt have reduced his income tax liability either  
so I didnt think Stephen McDine Limited was responsible for Mr E using his savings 
or not buying a new van. 
There was no evidence of the past or future effect on Mr Es tax credits, so I didnt 
think Stephen McDine Limited should make any adjustments there or should meet 
Mr Es tax liability.  
Response to my provisional decision
Mr E didnt agree with my provisional findings. He made the following points in response:I had confirmed that Stephen McDine Limited answered it would to Mr Es question 
about whether, if he paid £6,000 into his pension, it would reduce his income for tax 
purposes down to £11,000.  He said he acted on Stephen McDine Limiteds 
confirmation and made the contribution  no further analysis of the response was 
required.
The only part of the response that was important was the yes that Stephen McDine 
Limited confirmed. It answered the question he posed. However, he said he did take 
into consideration the complete response Stephen McDine Limited gave.
He didnt see any ambiguity in the statement and acted on the assertion that he was 
told his income would be reduced to £11,000 for tax purposes. 
He suggested that I should look at the response statement from his position as a 
consumer  because he felt it gave nothing but confirmation that his initial question 
was understood to be correct.   
Stephen McDine Limited didnt make any response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to change from my provisional decision. I know Mr E feels 
strongly that Stephen McDine Limiteds response to his question was definitive, and cant be 
interpreted in any other way except to confirm that his income would be reduced for tax 
purposes if he made a lump sum contribution to his pension.  
And I have some sympathy for Mr Es position here as he believes hes paid an income tax 
bill that could have been avoided. But, while I cant safely say that Mr E didnt act on 
Stephen McDine Limiteds response, I dont think it misled Mr E in the information it 
provided, and I dont believe it made any difference to the actions that Mr E would have 
taken ultimately.  
There are two separate points to cover in this complaint. 
The question Mr E raised and Stephen McDine Limiteds response
In February 2019 Mr E asked Stephen McDine Limited, amongst some other pension related 
questions, I want to avoid paying any tax for this financial year I think I will earn about 
£17,000, so I plan to pay £6,000 into my pension fund. Am I right in thinking that this will 
reduce my income for tax purposes down to £11,000? 
On the same day Stephen McDine Limited replied to the question by stating yes by paying 
£6k into the pension it will have to be a gross payment, it reduces your tax and hence 
income tax. In a meeting so its a quick response.
I can understand why Mr E took the answer to be yes and then made his contribution into 
the pension. However, it wasnt until later, when completing his self-assessment return, that 
he realised this didnt have the effect of reducing his income as he hoped for. But I dont 
think the content of Stephen McDine Limiteds response was meant to mislead Mr E or that it 
did mislead him. 
The context of the answer was that it reduces your tax and hence income tax  there was 
no direct confirmation that it would reduce Mr Es actual income although I could fully 
understand why Mr E would have assumed the yes part of the answer to confirm that part 
of his question.
 I think Stephen McDine Limited could have been a bit clearer here and address the income 
reduction aspect more concisely, but I dont think it tried to misled Mr E. I know Mr E is 
adamant that the response can only be seen one way and that Ive dissected the statement 
to mean different things. He thinks a normal investor would take the answer yes as 
confirmation that he could make the contribution and would see his income reduced as a 
result. 
And I think this is a finely balanced matter when deciding exactly what the response meant 
and what could be taken from it. But I dont think Stephen McDine Limited meant to mislead 
Mr E here and I think it could argue that the context of the whole response is correct in that 
the tax relief that is gained from the pension contribution would ultimately reduce Mr Es 
overall tax burden, so that his final position would be broadly neutral.
Mr Es actions and what would have happened   
Having considered whether Stephen McDine Limiteds email response advice was 
responsible for Mr E making a pension contribution, Ive also looked at what might have 
happened if the advice was clearer and Mr E knew that his income wouldnt have been 
reduced. 
Mr E earned £17,000 that tax year and would always have to declare that as his income for 
the year. I think therefore, that apart from allowable expenses, he would have had to pay tax 
on that amount. Mr E has said that he could have bought a van instead of making the 
pension contribution, which he thinks would have reduced his overall income. But theres no 
suggestion that Mr E stated that as an alternative in his email to Stephen McDine Limited. 
He didnt ask for advice on what he should do, simply just that he believed a pension 
contribution would reduce his income. It was for Mr E to decide what to do next. 
But in any case, even if I am wrong here, the pension still offered Mr E the tax break he was 
looking for. By making a contribution he would have received tax relief through his self-
assessment claim, and this would have reduced his overall tax burden as a result of that 
relief. The saving that Mr E made wasnt through a lower income figure but was made in his 
pension plan. 
And I think if Stephen McDine Limited had been clearer in its information and explained this 
to Mr Es satisfaction he would have realised that this was benefit to him and made the 
contribution in any case. Mr E has also said that he used up his savings unnecessarily and I 
can see from the fact find that Stephen McDine Limited completed with Mr E in 2018 that he 
did hold a significant level of savings. But if hed keep the savings where they were held, he 
wouldnt have been able to reduce his overall income figure and that wouldnt have given 
any reduction in his tax bill. At least by investing his savings he benefitted from the tax relief, 
as a basic rate tax payer. 
I can see why Mr E acted as he did on Stephen McDine Limiteds response to his email in 
February 2019. I think the response could have been clearer. But Im not satisfied it was 
incorrect  to the extent that it misled Mr E and caused him any financial loss. So I dont 
think Stephen McDine Limited should have to compensate Mr E for his tax liability here.
And I havent seen any evidence of any loss Mr E might have suffered as a result of his tax 
credits being affected, so I dont Stephen McDine Limited needs to compensate Mr E over 
that matter either. 
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman