DRN-4163290
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain Nationwide Building Society advised them to take out investments 
in 2021 that had a greater risk than they were led to believe. Mr C and Mrs C say this 
resulted in greater losses than they thought possible. 
What happened
After meeting with a Nationwide financial adviser Mr C and Mrs C invested £40,000 - 
£20,000 in a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA) for Mrs C and £20,000 into 
a general investment account in joint names. Mr C and Mrs C complained to Nationwide that 
the investments had lost money and that the investments were made in funds that had a 
greater risk than they were led to believe. Mr C and Mrs C said theyd been paying an 
ongoing fee for advice and were unhappy that Nationwide hadnt contacted told them about 
the fall in value.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and said that the investments had been made in line 
with the risk profile agreed at the initial meeting. Nationwide said a review had been carried 
out the following tax year with a view to investing the joint investment into an ISA to assist 
with tax efficiency.
Mr C and Mrs C brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought that the funds Nationwide 
recommended were suitable and were in line with Mr C and Mrs Cs agreed attitude to 
investment risk. Mr C and Mrs C didnt agree with the Investigator and asked that an 
Ombudsman decides the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr C and Mrs C will be disappointed, but for very much the same reasons 
as our Investigator Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I will now explain why.
Mr C and Mrs C believe Nationwides assessment of their attitude to risk doesnt match the 
risk of the funds recommended  and that this led to losses greater than they expected could 
be the case. Ive carefully considered the points Mr C and Mrs C have made, but the 
suitability letter provided by Nationwide explained they agreed to invest in funds that had a 
measured risk that could lead to a reduction in the value of their investments for the 
increased growth potential of cash. The fact-find Nationwide completed at the time recorded 
Mr C and Mrs C wanted more positive growth on their funds because low interest rates 
meant cash-based products were being eroded by inflation. The fact-find went on to record 
Mr C and Mrs C were experienced investors with an open mind to investing and were willing 
to accept some capital risk.
The fact-find supports that Mr C and Mrs C had sufficient cash to provide funds in case of an 
emergency, that they had a reasonable amount of regular income to provide for their day to 
day needs and that the agreed £40,000 was to be invested for growth over the longer term. 
Nationwide provided a detailed Investment Planning Guide that provided full description of 
the risk profiles it used, details of the investment products it used and the ongoing fees for 
the advice provided. 
In view of this I cant reasonably accept that Nationwide failed to properly establish Mr C and 
Mrs Cs attitude to investment risk. Based on the information available, Im persuaded that 
Mr C and Mrs C would have understood the risks involved in investing in funds that had a 
modest (20-40%) portion in shares. Nationwide invested Mr C and Mrs Cs initial sum of 
£40,000  albeit this was spilt between an ISA and a general investment account  into fund 
that had a stocks and shares element of about 35%. The rest of the fund was primarily made 
up of bonds and gilts. The fund is generally diverse and is essentially made up of a number 
of funds from different fund managers across UK and global markets. Im satisfied that the 
funds in which Nationwide invested were in line with the level of risk Mr C and Mrs C agreed 
they were prepared to take. Of course, there is no guarantee that investments with a level 2 
risk profile would outperform deposit-based savings, but I think on balance Mr C and Mrs C 
understood this. 
Mr C and Mrs C say they didnt believe the investments Nationwide made could fall by as 
much as they did over the first year or so. However, Im satisfied that Nationwide explained 
this could happen in the suitability letter it provided to Mr C and Mrs C. In addition, the 
investments werent short term and I think Nationwide provided a clear example in the 
Investment Planning Guide of how a level 2 risk fund could fall over the short term in a 
volatile market  with visual and descriptive examples of how events like Covid impacted the 
short-term performance of a level 2 risk profile investment. So, although I have empathy with 
Mr C and Mrs C that their investments fell by more than they expected over the short-term, I 
think Nationwide made it reasonably clear that this could happen, and Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
Mr C and Mrs C say they expected that as part of the ongoing advice fee they pay that 
Nationwide should have alerted them to any fall in the markets and provided an explanation 
why the funds had performed below their expectation. Nationwide held a review with Mr C 
and Mrs C in August 2022 and agreed that their attitude to investments risk had not changed 
 still a level 2 risk. Although a recommendation was made to switch to another fund, to 
assist with further diversification, and to consider switching the general investment account 
holdings into an ISA, Mr C and Mrs C chose not to take up the recommendations. The 
suitability letter issued after this meeting suggests that Nationwide and Mr C and Mrs C 
discussed the fund performance to date but decided not to make any changes to their 
investment risk level or switch funds.
Although I consider it more likely than not the performance of the funds was discussed at the 
August 2022 review, Nationwides final response to Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint provided an 
overview of why the fixed interest market and the situation in Ukraine had a short-term 
impact on the performance of the investments. It also re-emphasised that Mr C and Mrs C 
hadnt invested for the short-term. I wouldnt expect a business to contact a customer every 
time a fund falls, but I would expect regular contact to review the investments. In this case, 
Im persuaded Nationwide provided a review after the first year and was actively looking to 
contact Mr C and Mrs C to conduct a further review before they asked for the investment to 
be closed. I think this is a reasonable level of service in the circumstances of this case.
Mr C and Mrs C feel that another investment they hold (a 100% equity-based fund) hasnt 
experienced the fall in value of the Nationwide investments. That may be so, but in this case 
Mr C and Mrs C made it clear in 2021 and 2022 that they didnt want Nationwide to invest 
into funds with 100% in equities. Im satisfied Nationwide took this into account when it 
agreed a level 2 risk profile fund with Mr C and Mrs C and the funds it recommended were suitable at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint 
against Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman