DRN-3321871
The complaint
Ms C complains about the service that she received from Mortimer Clarke Solicitors Limited 
which led to a county court judgment being made against her.
What happened
Ms C owed a credit card debt to a third party and the third party instructed Mortimer Clarke 
to recover the debt. Mortimer Clarke wrote to Ms C in December 2020 and asked her to 
contact it or complete an income and expenditure form. The letter said that if she didnt do so 
within 30 days it would ask the court to order a county court judgment against her. 
Ms C says that she replied to that letter in January 2021 but then received a county court 
claim form in February 2021. Mortimer Clarke says that it didnt receive the reply from Ms C 
until after the claim form had been sent to her. Ms C phoned Mortimer Clarke in February 
2021 and it recommended that she should apply for a Tomlin Order. 
Ms C then contacted it about the £100 cost of a Tomlin Order but didnt provide the 
information that was required for an application for a Tomlin Order. Mortimer Clarke wrote to 
Ms C in April 2021 and said that if she didnt reply within 21 days it would continue with the 
court proceedings. Ms C says that she didnt receive that letter so didnt reply to it. Mortimer 
Clarke continued with the court claim and a county court judgment was made against her in 
June 2021.
Ms C complained to Mortimer Clarke in July 2021 but it said that the delay in receiving her 
reply in February 2021 wasnt caused by it and it didnt consider that it had acted 
unreasonably. It accepted that Ms C was given incorrect information in February 2021 
regarding the delay in her reply form being added to her file and it apologised for that and 
offered her £50 compensation. Ms C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that this 
service cant interfere with the courts decision to grant the county court judgment but can 
look into whether Mortimer Clarke took fair and reasonable steps to make Ms C aware that it 
was seeking to obtain a judgment. She described the events that had taken place and said 
that she didnt believe that she could reasonably conclude that Mortimer Clarke made any 
errors that resulted in the judgment being obtained.
Ms C has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that the 
delay with her reply not being received until February 2021 was caused by the postal system 
in Mortimer Clarkes office and it should be asked to provide a receipt for the letter. She says 
that her letter may have been in its office for numerous days before it was opened and date 
stamped. She says that she wasnt given the full information about the cost of the Tomlin 
Order which has cost her £100 but its only offered her £50 compensation. She also says 
that she didnt receive the letter that it sent to her in April 2021 and there should be some 
proof of posting. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
this service cant interfere with the county courts decision to grant a judgment but it 
can consider whether Mortimer Clarke took fair and reasonable steps to make Ms C 
aware that it might be applying for a judgment;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Mortimer Clarke wrote to Ms C in December 2020 and asked her to contact it or 
complete an income and expenditure form - the letter said that if she didnt do so 
within 30 days it would ask the court to order a county court judgment against her;
it didnt receive a reply from Ms C within 30 days so a county court claim form was 
issued to her in February 2021  it then received a response from Ms C to the letter 
that it had sent her;
Ms C says that she completed the reply form, signed and dated it and  posted it 
first class  probably the next day; 
Mortimer Clarkes contact notes show that the letter was received on 10 February 
2021 and Im not persuaded that its likely that the letter was received before then 
and was in its office unopened and undated  and I dont consider that theres any 
requirement for it to provide a receipt for the letter;
Ms C then phoned Mortimer Clarke about the claim form that shed received and was 
informed that it hadnt received her letter until 10 February 2021, but it recommended 
that she should apply for a Tomin Order  its contact notes show that it tried to call 
Ms C back to inform her that the legal charges wouldnt be removed from the balance 
and that there was a £100 charge for the Tomlin Order, but the call wouldnt go 
through;
Mortimer Clarke then wrote to Ms C about the Tomin Order and said that  any 
legal fees will not be removed and there is an additional fee of £100 for a Tomlin 
Order  and that if she didnt wish to continue with the Tomlin order it would 
continue with the county court proceedings;
I dont consider it to be likely that the £100 cost of the Tomlin Order was discussed 
on the call but I consider that Ms C was made aware of the cost of the Tomlin Order 
before it was applied for;
there were then communications about an affordable monthly repayment and 
Mortimer Clarke wrote to Ms C in April 2021  it asked her to respond to its letter 
within 21 days and said that, if she didnt do so, it would  proceed to enter 
judgment for the full outstanding balance;
Ms C says that she didnt receive that letter but it was correctly addressed to her and 
Mortimer Clarke has provided a copy of the letter and its contact notes refer to a 
letter being sent  I consider it to be more likely than not that the letter was sent to 
Ms C, even if it wasnt received by her;
as it hadnt received a reply to its letter, Mortimer Clarke continued with the court claim and a county court judgment was made against Ms C in June 2021;
Mortimer Clarke accepts that Ms C was given incorrect information in February 2021 
regarding the delay in her reply form being added to her file and it apologised for that 
and offered her compensation of £50  other than that, Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence to show that Mortimer Clarke has acted incorrectly in its dealings 
with Ms C that led to the county court judgment being made against her; and
I sympathise with Ms C for the difficulties that shes described and the issues that 
shes experienced in her dealings with Mortimer Clarke but, other than paying her the 
£50 compensation that it has offered to her (if it hasnt already done so), I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to take any 
action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Mortimer Clarke Solicitors Limited should pay 
to Ms C the £50 compensation that it has offered to her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman