DRN-2856428
The complaint
Miss S and Miss E complain about the advice they received from First Mortgage Direct Ltd
(FMD). Specifically, they complain they were led to believe they had sufficient life and critical
illness cover when they didnt.
What happened
In early 2015, Miss S and Miss E received advice from FMD as they were purchasing a new
property. They received advice on both their mortgage and protection needs. FMD said that
it had discussed life cover, critical illness cover, income protection and buildings and
contents insurance. It said it would review existing policies and make recommendations to fit
their new needs.
Following this FMD told Miss S and Miss E that they didnt need to change anything with
their existing protection. Last year, Miss S suffered from a critical illness. She says she
spoke to her adviser at FMD who told her she could make a claim on her critical illness
insurance. It later became apparent that she didnt have this insurance in place. Miss S and
Miss E complained as they had specifically asked for this type of cover and werent told to do
anything. They had assumed they had the cover already in place as the adviser said he
would review all of their existing cover. She believes her mortgage wouldve been paid off
had she been advised correctly.
FMD said it had obtained quotes for critical illness cover and life cover for both Miss S and
Miss E at the time. It said that it believes the quotes were discussed and Miss S and Miss E
declined the cover due to cost. It also said there wasnt a need as they owned another
property and selling that couldve repaid the majority of the mortgage. So, it felt it hadnt
done anything wrong.
Our investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest Miss S and Miss E
wouldve taken out the critical illness cover as it was expensive and they couldve repaid the
majority of the mortgage with the proceeds from their other property. So, he didnt uphold the
complaint.
Miss S and Miss E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They
said that they had specifically asked for this level of cover to be looked at and were told they
didnt need additional cover. They also explained that whilst they did pay off around £60,000
of their £148,000 mortgage the remaining funds from their previous house were used for
home improvements which is what they had intended. They said as they had wanted the
cover, they wouldve paid for it had it been presented to them.
I sent out my provisional decision on 4 May 2021. I explained that I intended to uphold this 
complaint. An extract of this provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold is 
below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to the investigator. I dont think FMD
advised Miss S and Miss E correctly, and had it done so, I think Miss S and Miss E wouldve
had critical illness insurance. Ill explain my reasons for reaching this decision.
Its clear from the fact find at the time Miss S and Miss E spoke to FMD that they wanted
insurance in the event that either of them passed away or became critically ill. Specifically
they were asked if this was important to them and they answered yes. I can also see that
FMD told Miss S and Miss E in a letter dated 26 February 2015 that it had discussed
protection. It went on to say:
At our appointment, you provided me with copies of existing policies you have in force. I will
review these policies prior to making a recommendation to fit your new needs.
So, Im satisfied that FMD told Miss S and Miss E that it would be making recommendations
to address their protection needs, and that these protection needs included life and critical
illness cover.
On 16 April 2015, FMD emailed Miss S to say:
Ive spoken to Compliance re this and my advice to you is do nothing  and keep the
existing cover.
I note that this is in relation to their income protection policies they have in place but there is
no other communication about the other levels of protection. And I think its likely that this
reassured Miss S and Miss E that they had the level of protection they needed. But, in actual
fact they only had income protection policies, theres no record of any other policies having
been in place, or discussed.
FMD have said that it obtained quotes for a life and critical illness policy and I can see it did
this. It says that this shows it presented these quotes to Miss S and Miss E and they
declined it due to cost. However, theres no evidence this happened. It seems to be an
assumption FMD has made here. I find it likely that FMD assumed Miss S and Miss E
wouldve declined the cover rather than discussing it with them. Its clear to me that FMD are
relying on assumptions rather than keeping the records that Id expect it to have if it had
discussed this cover with Miss S and Miss E. Especially considering that FMD listed a
standalone critical illness policy on the fact find, despite this never having existed.
As I think FMD failed to discuss life and critical illness with Miss S and Miss E, despite
saying it would do so and there being a need, Ive considered what wouldve happened had
FMD had these discussions as it was supposed to have.
Im satisfied that Miss S and Miss E had a need for this cover. They didnt have any existing
life and critical illness policies and they had expressly said it was important that they had this
cover available. I understand that Miss S has since suffered from one of the specified critical
illnesses that the policy FMD obtained a quote for may have covered, but I have to
determine whether the policy wouldve been taken without the benefit of hindsight. Having
done so Im satisfied, on balance, that some cover wouldve been taken out had it been
offered.
Ive seen that the quote FMD received was to cover the full amount of the mortgage Miss S
and Miss E were taking out - £148,000. But it was documented in the fact find that Miss S
and Miss E planned to reduce their mortgage by £60,000 with the proceeds of sale from their
other property. And Miss S confirmed this is what they did. So, I think its likely had FMD
actually told Miss S and Miss E about this quote, there wouldve been further discussion
around the cover they actually needed to ensure suitable advice was being given. So, I think
its likely they wouldve gone ahead with life and critical illness cover for £88,000.I have noted FMDs point that Miss S and Miss E were due to receive around £120,000 from
the sale of their other property which they couldve used to reduce their mortgage, but its
clear that they werent intending to use this full amount. As Ive explained, its actually
documented that they planned to use £60,000 and this is what they did. So, I dont think the
expected proceeds of the sale wouldve stopped them taking out life and critical illness cover
had they been recommended it. Its clear they were always planning to have a substantial
mortgage remaining on this property, even after the sale of their other one.
Ive thought about the cost of the policy. The cost for cover for £148,000 was £164 per
month. FMD says this cost was prohibitive and was the reason Miss S and Miss E didnt take
the cover. I cant see it was ever presented to them or discussed, but I agree its a large
monthly sum. However, Ive looked at their income and expenditure details logged in the fact
find. Ive not seen anything to suggest that this amount was unaffordable for them. Their
combined monthly income was over £5,000 and their outgoings were around £1,600 per
month. This left enough disposable income to ensure they could afford the insurance policy.
And as they had specifically asked for this cover to be looked at, I think its likely that a policy
wouldve been taken out had FMD followed what it said it would do.
I acknowledge that FMD didnt sell them a policy, and that it believes Miss S and Miss E
were aware they werent covered. But given FMD were the financial experts, and expressly
told Miss S and Miss E that they would review their existing cover and make
recommendations, I think its likely Miss S and Miss E felt they had sufficient cover based on
FMD telling them they didnt need any more. This is supported by Miss S calling FMD to ask
how to claim when she needed to.
Overall, Im persuaded that FMD told Miss S and Miss E that it would recommend suitable
cover and failed to do this. Had it provided advice in relation to life and critical illness cover,
as it said it would, I believe Miss S and Miss E wouldve had a policy in place to cover them
for £88,000  which is the mortgage they wouldve had outstanding after paying off £60,000
as planned. This means that Miss Ss claim wouldve been considered in line with the policy
when she became ill. It follows that, if the policy wouldve paid out, FMD should pay this
amount to Miss S and Miss E.
Im also satisfied that FMDs failings has caused Miss S and Miss E trouble and upset. They
believed they were covered, and even called the policy provider to claim after being directed
there by their advisor  despite FMD knowing they didnt have critical illness cover. To then
be told they didnt have the cover they believed they had wouldve caused shock and upset
during a difficult time. So I think FMD should pay Miss S and Miss E £300 trouble and upset.
Putting things right
My intention is to direct First Mortgage Direct Limited to do the following:
- Look at whether Miss Ss claim for critical illness wouldve been covered under the
policy that it sold at the time  it is reasonable for Miss S to supply medical evidence
in line with what the policy wouldve required.
- If satisfied it would pay out, pay Miss S the amount the policy covered her for at the
time she claimed.
- Deduct from this amount the amount in premiums Miss S and Miss E wouldve paid
to the date of claim for this policy.
- First Mortgage Direct Limited is entitled to ask about medical history to ensure it cancalculate the premiums payable with the policy provider.
- Pay Miss S and Miss E £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss S and Miss E accepted the provisional decision. FMD also accepted the provisional 
decision and provided some redress calculations that I have passed on to Miss S and Miss 
E. FMD has said it will require medical evidence from Miss S to show the claim wouldve 
been paid out under the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted the provisional decision, I am upholding this complaint for the 
same reasons, which are set out above and form part of this decision. I agree with FMD that 
Miss S will need to provide medical evidence to show that the claim wouldve been paid out 
under the policy  this is what wouldve been required by the policy provider and ensures 
Miss S and Miss E are put in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred.
Putting things right
First Mortgage Direct Ltd must now do the following to put things right:
- Look at whether Miss Ss claim for critical illness wouldve been covered under the
policy that it sold at the time  it is reasonable for Miss S to supply medical evidence
in line with what the policy wouldve required.
- If satisfied it would pay out, pay Miss S the amount the policy covered her for at the
time she claimed.
- Deduct from this amount the amount in premiums Miss S and Miss E wouldve paid
to the date of claim for this policy.
- First Mortgage Direct Limited is entitled to ask about medical history to ensure it can
calculate the premiums payable with the policy provider.
- Pay Miss S and Miss E £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. First Mortgage Direct Ltd must follow the 
instructions above if this decision is accepted by Miss S and Miss E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman