DRN-3470552
The complaint
Mr F and Miss R complain that Lloyds Bank PLC lost a copy of Miss Rs passport. 
What happened
One branch of Lloyds sent a copy of Miss Rs passport to another. It was to be used as proof 
of identification as Mr F was adding Miss R to his account. The document never turned up 
and was never located. They had to return to a branch to repeat the process.
Lloyds apologised to Mr F and Miss R, paying them £50 compensation for the trouble 
caused and £18 to cover their travel costs. 
Mr F and Miss R brought a complaint to this service saying this was a significant data breach 
that has caused Miss R significant stress and anxiety due to her personal circumstances. 
They ideally want the documentation to be found, Miss R to receive compensation for the 
impact this had, and more care to be taken in the future. 
Our investigator found Lloyds had responded fairly to the complaint and so did not uphold it. 
Mr F and Miss R asked for an ombudsmans review, explaining they were more upset by the 
anxiety the incident caused than the inconvenience.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Lloyds response is appropriate in the circumstances. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has apologised it didnt get things right first time. It has explained that the 
documentation should have been sent electronically and it has fed this back to the advisor 
involved. Lloyds cant be sure where or how the documentation was lost  either in one of its 
branches or during the mail process and neither can I based on the available evidence. But it 
has explained its policy means that had it been found as an unrecognised document in either 
branch it would have been destroyed using the confidential waste facility. 
I accept this means Miss R cant get the absolute reassurance she wants that her 
information has always been secure. From what shes said to us, I can see how that would 
have caused her worry and anxiety. But in the circumstances I find that the banks payment 
of £50 to acknowledge the trouble and upset this worry has caused her is fair.  Equally it is 
right to have covered the additional cost of the second branch visit and to have given 
feedback to the advisor. Given all of this, I cant see that I can fairly ask Lloyds to take any 
further action.
As the investigator has said if Miss R wishes to report the issue as a data breach she should 
contact the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk). 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr F and Miss Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman