DRN-1741131
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (CO) made an incorrect report to the Credit 
Reference Agencies (CRAs) which later resulted in him getting a less favourable mortgage 
offer.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr S and CO, so I wont repeat it. Instead I will focus on the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
In 2017 Mr S entered into a Debt Arrangement Scheme (DAS). This is a statutory debt 
management tool overseen by the Scottish Government. A DAS cant be obtained for those 
people living in England, Wales or Northern Ireland. For those people the corresponding tool 
would be a debt management plan (DMP). As Mr S lived in Scotland a DAS was correct in 
his circumstances. 
CO however reported that Mr S had entered into a DMP, and Mr S believes that as a 
consequence, when he applied for a mortgage, he received a less favourable offer.
Having looked at the evidence I can see that his mortgage advisor initially thought Mr S may 
have simply entered into a less formal arrangement with CO to manage his debt. I agree that 
if that had been the case then it would have been a materially different position, and COs 
reporting would have been wrong. But a DMP and its Scottish equivalent, the DAS, is 
essentially the same thing. They are very formal structures governing the management of 
debt. 
So, on this basis the reporting of a DMP, by CO, achieves the same result in that it reports 
that there was a more formal structure of debt management. Having said that I do accept 
that Mr S had a DAS not a DMP, and so on the face of it there has been an inaccurate 
reporting of fact, but that did not adversely affect him since it recorded the correct nature of 
the arrangement. 
But the broader question is what difference would this have made to his mortgage 
application. Our investigator correctly found that there was other adverse data on Mr Ss 
credit file, and so taking this into account and the fact that the DAS and DMP are essentially 
the same in nature, I cannot say that CO has incorrectly advised the CRAs or acted unfairly 
towards Mr S.  For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ss frustrations Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman