DRN-4293623
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) handling of 
their motor insurance claim.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
On 17 November 2022, Mr and Mrs J claimed on their motor insurance policy. They 
were told that the vehicle would be taken for repair on 25 November 2022.
Mr and Mrs J say due to lack of contact about the repairs, they contacted the repairer 
directly on 22 November 2022. However, it didnt have any record of the repair and 
they spent time chasing up who would be dealing with it, eventually being told the 
repairs to the vehicle would not be completed until February 2023.
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy with how their vehicle had been assessed, and the 
length of time they would be without it which they say Mulsanne didnt provide any 
assistance.
Mr and Mrs J eventually withdrew the claim as they had lost faith with the insurer, 
and they were informed that the claim was closed. However, Mr and Mrs J found out 
later that it was still open, and they were concerned this had an impact on their no 
claims discount.
Mr and Mrs J had concerns over the excess payment and werent happy to pay it, 
however the claim was withdrawn and therefore the excess wasnt applicable.
Our investigator considered the complaint and upheld it in part. He felt Mulsannes 
communications were poor, and this had caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience to Mr and Mrs J, recommending they were compensated £400.
Mr and Mrs J accepted our investigators view, however we didnt receive a response 
from Mulsanne.
As we didnt hear back from Mulsanne the complaint has been passed to me, an 
Ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mulsanne failed to provide a response to the complaints that Mr and Mrs J raised in 
December 2022 and February 2023. It had previously issued a final response letter (FRL) to 
a complaint on 17 November 2022, which we dealt with under a separate complaint at this 
Service. We have made it clear to Mulsanne that Mr and Mrs J have raised new complaint 
points since the issue of that FRL and asked it to respond.
Due to it not responding to our Investigator, he issued his opinion on this complaint. 
Mulsanne then provided a file but that was in relation to the first complaint. It doesnt address 
the new issues and it hasnt provided any further FRLs or responded to the opinion issued. 
Im satisfied It has had opportunity to respond, so I have made this decision based on the 
limited information provided. My decision has looked at whats happened between 17 
November 2022 and February 2023.
Appointed repairer
I consider Mulsanne shouldve made it clearer to Mr and Mrs J when and where the vehicle 
would be taken to be repaired and how long theyd be without it. There shouldve been better 
communication on the claim which wouldve prevented Mr and Mrs J having to chase this up 
themselves.
In December 2022, Mr and Mrs J expressed concerns about the repairer. They were 
unhappy with how the vehicle had been assessed and worried about using their damaged 
vehicle. Mr and Mrs J also expressed their unhappiness of being told the vehicle wouldnt be 
fixed until March 2023 - ten months since the road traffic accident. However, I note the claim 
had only been registered in November 2022, so I cant hold the Insurer responsible for the 
delay prior to this.
As our investigator has said, its not our role to say how long a repair takes or how a repairer 
assesses a vehicle. However, Mulsanne are responsible for relaying information from the 
repairer to Mr and Mrs J and keeping them informed of developments with their claim, and 
from the information available I cant see this was done.
So, Im satisfied there was poor communication and a loss of expectation of when Mr and 
Mrs Js vehicle would be sent for repair and when they could expect their repaired vehicle 
back. So, I will consider this in the compensation payment that I direct.
Hire car
Mr and Mrs J are entitled to a hire car under the policy, and they say they tried to arrange 
one with Mulsanne, but their contact was ignored.
I havent seen evidence that Mulsanne discussed a hire car or responded to Mr and Mrs Js 
contact. As Mulsanne had appointed a repairer to repair their vehicle and did this before they 
withdrew their claim, Mulsanne shouldve contacted Mr and Mrs J regarding the hire car and 
manage their expectations regarding it.
Fortunately, they had use of another vehicle however this doesnt excuse Mulsanne for not 
carrying out the contract of insurance regarding an offer of a hire car.
I can appreciate that not having use of the vehicle wouldve been inconvenient to Mr and Mrs 
J and shouldnt have been something they had to struggle with. So, I am satisfied that 
Mulsanne didnt act as Id have expected it to in these circumstances and will consider this in 
my award for compensation. 
Policy excess
Im aware that Mr and Mrs J are no longer being asked to pay the excess as they withdrew 
their claim, therefore its not a loss I have to consider.
ClaimIts evident that the claim didnt close when Mulsanne said it did and Mr and Mrs J say this 
impacted their no claims discount. However regardless of whether the claim was showing as 
closed or not, Mr and Mrs Js no claims discount wouldve still been affected as the claim 
was settled as a split liability. Whilst I can appreciate the annoyance of having to clarify the 
claim closure with Mulsanne, Im unable to say this had any other impact.
I note that there was some misleading correspondence from Mulsanne over whether a claim 
had been made and recorded. This shouldve been handled better by Mulsanne, and they 
shouldve provided accurate information to Mr and Mrs J. I will consider this in the 
compensation award. 
Conclusion
Its evident from what Ive seen that trying to progress the claim has been an unnecessary 
ordeal for Mr and Mrs J, causing them distress and inconvenience. Mulsanne shouldve 
proactively taken control of the claim and dealt with it better in the ways highlighted above.
Due to this, I consider a compensation award is warranted, and I agree with our 
investigators recommendations of £400.
Putting things right
I direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J £400 compensation.
Mulsanne must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs J accepts my final decision. 
If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman