DRN-3687690
The complaint
Mr B says Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, acted unreasonably after he 
missed a payment on his 0% credit card. 
What happened
Mr B was late making his monthly payment  it was due on 29 December 2021 but reached 
his account on 31 December 2021. So Virgin Money withdrew the promotional interest rate 
in line the terms of the account. Mr B asked if it could be reinstated as he was only a day 
late, it was the Christmas period, and he had set up a direct debit to ensure this oversight 
didnt recur. As Virgin Money refused Mr B complained. It took the bank almost 25 weeks to 
issue a final response letter which was sent on 22 June 2022. Meanwhile it continued to 
charge interest on his account.
Mr B says he can understand the banks decision not to reinstate the promotional rate, even 
though he doesnt agree with it. But what he says is unfair is that as he left a balance on his 
card whilst the complaint was being investigated he has been charged almost £450 interest 
at the standard rate for all that time, and Virgin Money only paid him £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by having to wait so long for its complaint response. He wants the 
interest to be refunded up to the point this decision is issued (he will then transfer the 
balance) and a more relevant compensation payment given it took Virgin Money three times 
longer than the set eight-week timeframe to respond to his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said Virgin Money was entitled to 
withdraw the promotional rate given the late payment. And it wasnt wrong to apply the 
standard interest rate from that point onwards  it wasnt usual practice for interest to be 
suspended during complaint investigations. She explained that as complaint handling is not 
a regulated activity we do not have the power to review this aspect of Mr Bs complaint. But 
she noted Virgin Money had given Mr B referral rights to this service after the eight weeks 
expired on 22 March 2022 so he could have brought his complaint to us then.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review, specifically because 
of the excessive time taken for a final response letter to be issued all the time while interest 
accrued. He asks why Virgin Money did not freeze the interest once it became clear it could 
not respond on time. He feels it is unreasonable to allow Virgin Money to rely on the 
argument that he could have moved or repaid the balance.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I will explain why.
The parties are not in dispute that Virgin Money acted in line with the terms of the account 
Mr B had agreed to when it removed the promotional rate, albeit I can see Mr B feels it could 
have shown more empathy in the circumstances. However, I cannot find Virgin Money did 
anything wrong in this regard.
What remains in dispute is whether or not Virgin Money ought to have charged interest 
ongoing after Mr B complained, particularly given how long it took the bank to respond. I can 
find no basis on which to conclude the bank should have suspended interest. The terms do 
not contain such a provision and I cannot see Virgin Money made this commitment to Mr B 
at any point. By removing the promotional interest rate Virgin Money treated Mr B fairly  i.e. 
in the same way as all other customers in the same circumstances. To agree to then 
suspend interest as he complained, or for me to now instruct it must refund these charges, 
would in essence move away from this important principle. And I think it is a fair and relevant 
point that Mr B opted to leave his balance with the bank, aware that interest was being 
applied. It follows I do not find Virgin Money need take any further action. 
With regards the time taken by Virgin Money to respond to Mr Bs complaint, this is not 
something I can look at. There is a difference between a complaint about a financial service 
and a complaint about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can only look at the former.    
Mr Bs concerns about Virgin Moneys slow response to his complaint is not a complaint 
about its provision of or failure to provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint 
handling.  And under our rules I cannot consider complaint handling.  I do note however that 
Virgin Money provided Mr B with his referral rights to this service within the set eight-week 
timescale.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman