DRN-1847438
 
The complaint
Mr J has complained about loans granted to him by Gain Credit LLC while trading as 
Lending Stream (Gain Credit or the lender). Mr J says the loans were unaffordable for 
him and that he needed to borrow again to meet his living costs. He also says that the loans 
contributed to his overall financial difficulties and have damaged his credit rating.
What happened
Gain Credit agreed four loans for Mr J from October 2013 to June 2014. The loans were all 
instalment loans to be repaid over six months and ranged in value from £80 to £200. The 
below table sets out some information Gain Credit has provided about these loans (with 
numbers rounded to the nearest pound).
Loan number Start End Principal (£)Interest Paid 
(£)Fees Paid 
(£)
1 01/10/2013 17/10/2013 120 40.8 0
2 28/10/2013 25/11/2013 80 54.4 12
3 03/04/2014 13/06/2014 200 190.4 12
4 03/06/2014 Not repaid 130 59.2 15
 
As the table shows Mr J didnt repay his fourth loan. Gain Credit acknowledged that it 
shouldnt have agreed this loan for Mr J in its response to him about his complaint. It said 
that its checks showed that he had a large amount of existing debt relative to his income and 
that the loan might have been unaffordable. It offered to use the interest and fees that Mr J 
had already paid towards this loan (plus some compensation) as payment towards the 
original principal. It said this left a principal balance outstanding of £36.
I understand that while Mr Js complaint was with this Service, Gain Credit sold the debt with 
an outstanding balance just over £290 (principal plus interest and fees) to a debt collection 
agency in August 2019. Mr J provided a copy of an email the agency sent to him in 
November 2019 chasing payment which showed a lower balance of about £185.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Js complaint and said that the offer Gain Credit had made to 
settle the matter was fair. Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and make a final decision. So the complaint has come to me to resolve.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 April 2020 explaining why I was thinking of coming to 
a different view of Mr Js complaint. As both parties were in agreement that Mr Js fourth loan 
shouldnt have been agreed I focused on his first three loans, and provisionally found that 
Gain Credit should not have agreed to loan 3, in addition to loan 4. 
Gain Credit hasnt replied to my provisional decision. Mr J has acknowledged it and hasnt 
provided any further comments on the matter.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. 
As neither party has provided anything new for me to consider, I see no need to depart from 
my provisional conclusions but for completeness I will set out my reasoning and conclusions 
again.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when Mr J first borrowed from Gain 
Credit. This changed to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for his last two loans. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT and the FCA were similar. Both regulators 
said that for all loans Gain Credit needed to check that Mr J could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mr J being able to meet his repayments 
out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks Gain Credit needed to carry out in 
order to reasonably assess whether or not Mr J would be able to meet his repayments 
sustainably. But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This 
suggests that the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or 
for the same consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Gain Credit says it asked Mr J for information about his income and expenses each time he 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded Mr Js monthly income as £750 for his first two loans, 
and £960 for his last two. It recorded his total expenses as £250 for his first two loans, which 
decreased to £50 for his third loan, where his income had increased.
Gain Credit also said that it checked Mr Js credit rating through a third party credit reference 
agency and that his score was satisfactory, though I dont know what it might have seen 
beyond this.
I think Gain Credits checks for Mr Js first two loans were proportionate. The information he 
gave about his income and expenses indicated that the repayments would be affordable. 
Hed repaid his first loan early and there werent any obvious signs of him being in financial 
difficulty. I understand that Mr J had problems managing his second loan, which led to him incurring a 
late fee. He then paid this loan early and didnt ask for a third loan until over four months 
later. I have considered whether or not it was reasonable of the lender to think that by this 
point Mr Js circumstances had moved on, that he was now in a better position and could 
take on new credit and so in assessing his application for this third loan could perhaps treat 
him as it would a new customer.
In this case I dont think it was reasonable of Gain Credit to agree to lend to Mr J without 
further checks. I appreciate that Mr J managed to repay his first two loans early but I dont 
think successfully repaying his loans automatically means that he managed to do so in a 
sustainable way. In addition to missing a payment on his second loan, the information Mr J 
had now provided showed that his income had increased and his expenses had decreased 
significantly. I think that Gain Credit ought to have queried why someone with such a large 
proportion of available income would need to borrow expensive credit again. And this was 
the largest amount hed borrowed so far. So, altogether, I think Gain Credit ought to have 
looked into Mr Js expenses in more detail before lending to him on this occasion.
Mr J has provided a copy of his credit file and I can see from this that he had relatively large 
amounts of existing debts and was having problems managing these when he applied for his 
third loan. In addition to several older defaults hed recently defaulted on two short term 
loans owing over £1,200 and he had missed payments on other debts. I think its likely
Gain Credit would have learnt this, had it carried out a proportionate check here and, as a 
responsible lender, would have declined this loan.
When Mr J applied for his fourth loan, he again declared an income of £960 but nothing for 
expenses and, as with his third loan, I think a proportionate check would have revealed
Mr Js money problems which Gain Credit has already acknowledged.
Putting things right
As Ive explained above, I've found that Gain Credit was irresponsible to have agreed Mr Js 
third and fourth loans taken out in April and June 2014 respectively. In order to put things 
right for him, Gain Credit should
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan 3; and
pay interest on all these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to 
the dates of settlement; and
remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Js credit file.
 
Mr Js fourth loan was not fully repaid. In order to put Mr J back into the position he would 
have been had this not been agreed for him Gain Credit needs to ensure that Mr J only 
repays the principal borrowed. In other words he should not pay any interest or charges for 
the loan. So Gain Credit needs to:
remove any interest or charges that make up the outstanding balance; and 
treat all payments that Mr J has made towards his fourth loan as payments towards 
the principal borrowed; and 
remove any adverse information about this loan from Mr Js credit file, once the 
remaining principal debt has been repaid.
 
As mentioned I understand loan 4 has been sold on. This means that putting Mr J back in 
the position he would have been in had this loan not been agreed is not as straightforward 
as putting things right in the case of loan 3. If Gain Credit can buy the debt back it can use the total refund (on loan 3) to offset any 
outstanding principal balance on loan 4. Any refund remaining should be paid to Mr J.
If Gain Credit doesnt or is unable to buy the debt back then it must work with the current 
debt owner to ensure that Mr J doesnt end up paying back more than the capital he 
originally borrowed. This may mean it needs to make a payment to the current debt owner.
And if Mr J has made payments to the current debt owner above the amount originally 
borrowed, then he should be paid compensation for this, in other words these amounts 
should be returned to him along with 8% simple* per year from the dates of the overpayment 
to the date this complaint is settled.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Gain Credit to take off tax from this interest.
Gain Credit must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
As Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Js complaint about Gain Credit LLC and require it to put 
things right for him as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman