DRN-3765944
The complaint
Mr T complains about the process adopted by the Chorley and District Building Society (the 
Society) when his savings account matured.
What happened
Mr T held a fixed term Members Regular Saver Share Account with the Society. When the 
account was due to mature, it gave Mr T three options:
1. Retain a balance of £1 in his existing account, with the maturity balance paid to another 
account.
2. The account is closed and all of the funds paid into a nominated bank account.
3. Automatic transfer of the full balance to an instant access savings account.
Mr T complained that under option 1 he would lose his membership rights as he was 
required to hold a minimum balance of £100. And the Society did not tell him what the 
interest rate was on the instant access account under option 3.
When Mr T complained, he wasnt satisfied with the Societys response. He said that he 
member of staff he spoke to wasnt sufficiently prepared for the phone call. He also said that 
the Societys process for maturing accounts was too slow.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. Mr T didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Terms and conditions
I consider that The Society gave Mr T sufficient information to make an informed choice what 
to do when his account matured. There was no requirement to state the interest rate of the 
instant access account in the body of the letter. The Society sent Mr T a product guide which 
explained how Mr T could find out information about the interest rates on offer online, by 
phone or in branch  and it reiterated that in its final response. It wasnt required to go further 
than that. It was sufficient for the Society to meet its duty to provide information in a way that 
was clear, fair and not misleading  and was in line with the regulatory requirements. It also 
reflects that interest rates can change at short notice. Giving information by post might lead 
to that information being out of date by the time it reaches the recipient. 
It is up to the Society to decide which accounts to offer and the terms and conditions of 
those accounts. That information was always available to Mr T in the same way it was to any 
customers of the Society and was sufficient for him to make an informed choice and apply 
for another account if he wanted. 
Society membership
The Societys rules for membership or complaints about membership of the society arent 
something I can consider. Thats because membership of a building society isnt a regulated 
activity  and because a complaint is defined by the FCA as an expression of dissatisfaction 
about the provision or failure to provide a financial service. I dont consider membership of a 
is a financial service. But Mr Ts complaint is about the information the Society gave him 
when his account matured. So I can look at things that arise out of that relationship. 
I dont consider that the Society treated Mr T unfairly. I cant see that there was any 
requirement to tell Mr T about any potential impact on his membership of the society of the 
different options it presented at maturity. 
I understand the Society reduced Mr Ts balance to £1. But it gave Mr T ample notice of 
what the needed to do before the account matured if he wanted to retain his membership. It 
also explained that he could open another account if he was worried about losing his 
membership. 
Service
Complaint handling is not a regulated activity and it is not a complaint as defined by the 
FCA. Nevertheless, while the call between Mr T and the Society was in relation to his 
complaint, it also included information about the operation of the Societys accounts. So we 
can consider it. But I cant deal with any parts of Mr Ts complaint that relate directly to how 
the Society dealt with his complaint. 
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr T had with the Society on 23 June 2021. It was 
reasonable for the Society to put Mr T on hold to find out the answers to his questions  
even if that was multiple times. I dont agree that it would be reasonable to expect a 
financial business to have all of the information that might possibly be discussed at hand. 
Any confusion regarding maturity in previous years was cleared up in a later letter. I cant 
see that the Society acted unfairly or unreasonably during the phone call. 
Ive already found that the Society gave Mr T enough information for him to decide what to 
do. It was his decision to insist on full product information and an application form to be sent 
to him directly. 
It doesnt appear that the Society called Mr T back as he requested. But that reflects that it 
had already issued a final response in respect of the complaint. It was not required to enter 
into further dialogue with Mr T about the complaint. And this would fall under complaint 
handling so not something I can consider. If the query was about something not related to 
the complaint then it would have been reasonable for Mr T to use normal channels to contact 
the Society. Conclusion
I dont consider there have been any errors by the Society or that it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. While Mr T might have suffered some inconvenience, I cant see that was as 
a result of any failures by the Society and he has not claimed any financial loss. There is 
always going to be some inconvenience in managing personal finances, but Im afraid that is 
a fact of life. I cant see what Mr T has told us goes beyond that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman