DRN-3067226
The complaint
Mr P complains about the settlement paid by Allianz Insurance Plc for a claim made under 
his property owners insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020, there was an escape of water at Mr Ps property. Mr P made a claim and 
Allianz asked him to obtain two quotes to complete the repairs. Mr P did so, however Allianz 
thought the quotes were too high. 
Allianz therefore carried out its own inspection and made a cash settlement offer to Mr P of 
£1,647.05 (which included a deduction for the excess). However, Mr P had concerns about 
the scope of work used to reach that figure. Allianz told Mr P it would look at the matter 
again. It was also agreed between the parties in December 2020 that Allianz would arrange 
the repairs. 
Mr P didnt then hear from Allianz again. In May 2021, he contacted Allianzs loss adjuster 
and advised that hed be arranging for the repairs to be done by his own contractor the 
following week. Mr P was told hed need authorisation from Allianz before he arranged the 
repairs himself, however Mr P went ahead with the repairs. These cost him £5,750. 
Allianz refused to reimburse Mr P in full for the repairs. However, it accepted it had caused 
unnecessary delays. It offered to pay him £400 compensation for this. It also offered him a 
settlement figure of £2,427.06 (including VAT) towards the repairs, as this was the amount it 
wouldve cost Allianz if it had done the repairs itself. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P made a complaint. He thought Allianz should reimburse him in full 
for the repairs. He also said that his tenant had withheld some rent because of the delays 
with the repairs, and he thought Allianz ought to reimburse him for that too. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Allianzs offer was 
reasonable. 
Mr P didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted that Allianz didnt handle the claim well. I see that Allianz did indeed raise 
Mr Ps concerns about the scope of works with its loss adjuster, and the scope was changed 
as a result. Though that wasnt communicated to Mr P at the time. Its therefore the case that 
Allianz failed to progress the claim after December 2020, even though Mr P was expecting 
Allianz to get back to him about the scope of works, and then arrange the repairs.
However, I also have to take into account that Mr P didnt contact Allianz about the matter 
until May 2021, which was five months later. 
Mr P says he had several phone calls with Allianz and its loss adjuster between January and 
May 2021, but he hasnt provided any evidence of that, such as phone records. Mr P says 
that Allianz should provide the phone records. But Allianz says it didnt hear from Mr P over 
that period. 
If Mr P had been chasing Allianz for the repairs to be carried out between January and May 
2021, then I mightve said it was reasonable for him to go ahead and arrange the repairs 
himself. But based on what Ive seen, that didnt happen. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Ps frustration, I dont think he gave Allianz sufficient opportunity 
to put matters right. On that basis, I agree with our investigator that Allianz only needed to 
pay the amount it would have cost it to have the repairs done, which Allianz has confirmed 
was £2,427.06 (based on the changed scope of works).
Allianz has also offered Mr P £400 compensation for its poor handling of the claim. I think 
that amount was reasonable and reflects the inconvenience caused to him. 
Mr P says his tenant withheld rent from March 2021 due to the condition of the property 
following the leak. Hes confirmed that he later reached an agreement with his tenant and he 
agreed to accept a discounted rate of rent until the repairs were done. 
The policy does allow for loss of rent to be paid where damage to the property caused by an 
insured peril results in a loss of rent. It seems Mr Ps tenant chose to withhold the rent 
because the repairs werent taking place quickly enough. Whilst Ive found that Allianz were 
at fault for not progressing the claim as it ought to have done, as Ive said, its also the case 
that Mr P didnt contact Allianz about the matter after December 2020. If he had done, I think 
its likely Allianz wouldve realised its error and the repairs couldve taken place. If that had 
happened, it seems unlikely the tenant wouldve withheld rent. Consequently, I dont require 
Allianz to pay for any loss of rent.
I see that Mr P paid his plumber £350 to find and stop the leak. He asked Allianz to 
reimburse him for this, but it didnt do so. This didnt form part of Mr Ps complaint, and 
Allianz hasnt confirmed that this service can consider the issue as part of this complaint. 
However, it says that Mr P is covered for trace and access. Mr P should therefore contact 
Allianz directly about the matter so that it can reimburse him for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman