DRN-4154847
The complaint
Ms C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should honour the original annuity 
quote it gave her.
What happened
Ms C had a personal pension plan with Aviva, paying into it until April 2022. In November 
2021 Aviva sent her a wake up letter as she was approaching her chosen retirement date of 
11 April 2002, which was her 70th birthday. The pack advised Ms C that the current cash 
transfer value of her pension was £225,045.80 and that her policy included the important 
benefit of a Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR). The pack explained that this meant Ms C 
could get a higher annuity from Aviva than from another company and that she would lose 
this option if she cashed in her pension, or transferred it or bought an annuity with another 
provider. 
On 25 February 2022, Aviva sent Ms C a retirement options pack which set out various 
options for taking her pension benefits. Aviva advised Ms C that she could expect to receive 
a guaranteed annual pension of £24,754.92. On 7 March 2022 Ms C asked Aviva for some 
additional quotes based on taking £10,000 in tax-free cash and with an annuity being paid 
both in advance and in arrears. On 5 April 2022 Ms C called Aviva to chase the quote. 
Shortly after, Aviva sent Ms C the additional quotes shed requested and Ms C then 
completed the claim forms accepting the quote for the single life guaranteed annuity of 
£24,754.92 with no tax-free lump sum and payable monthly in advance.
On 12 May 2022 Ms C called Aviva to chase her pension claim. Aviva told Ms C that it was 
still processing it. On 6 June 2022 Aviva called Ms C to tell her that it had made a mistake 
when calculating her GAR pension and that it would only pay her £21,714.84 a year instead 
of £24,754.92. Unhappy with what Aviva had told her, Ms C raised a complaint. 
Aviva looked into Ms Cs complaint and issued its final response letter on 19 July 2022. It 
accepted that there had been delays in processing her pension claim and that it had given 
her an incorrect annuity quote. It said its actuaries had confirmed that Ms Cs pension fund 
value would only support an annual pension of £21,714.84. It also said that it had paid her 
April, May, and June pension payments late but going forward she would receive her 
monthly payments on 11th of each month starting on 11th August 2022. Aviva said it was 
sorry that it had given Ms C an incorrect quote in the first instance and it said it was sorry for 
the poor service, errors and delays. For the inconvenience it caused Ms C, Aviva paid her 
compensation of £450. Aviva also paid Ms C late payment interest of £14.88.
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Ms C complained to this service. She 
told us she wanted Aviva to honour the first annuity quotation it had given her despite it 
being made in error. Ms C also complained about the poor service shed received from 
Aviva. Our Investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint and recommended that it was upheld in 
part. She said:
there had been a one-off administration error by Aviva when it assumed Ms C was a 
male and based the quote on the wrong gender. 
she understood that Ms C was upset to find out about Avivas error with her original 
pension calculation and that she would be receiving a smaller pension than she had 
originally been led to believe. But our Investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Aviva 
to honour the first annuity quote because it wasnt a true reflection of the pensions 
value and because it was this Services aim to put consumers back in the position 
they would have been in but for a businesss error. In Ms Cs case this meant leaving 
her with the annuity as it currently stood.
she agreed that there had been delays in Avivas processing of Ms Cs pension claim 
and noted that it had offered to pay her interest for the late payment of her pension 
based on the Bank of England rate + 1%. However, our Investigator said Aviva 
should recalculate the interest due to Ms C for these late payments in line with DISP 
rule 3.7 in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook which cited an 8% simple per 
year interest rate. She said the interest should be calculated using this rate from the 
date each payment was due to the date it was actually paid on 22 June 2022.
she understood the stress Ms C had felt but thought the compensation of £450 paid 
by Aviva to Ms C was fair and in line with such awards made by this service to 
complainants in similar circumstances.
Ms C replied to say that she welcomed the recalculation of interest recommended by our 
Investigator but she said communications with Aviva had been stressful because she had no 
single point of contact. Ms C also said that the delays in making her payments were such 
that she could have waited for the annual bonuses to be added to her pension on 1 July 
2022. 
Ms C said her main concern was if the error in calculating her pension hadnt been caused 
by gender then what had caused it. She said Aviva told her in a phone call that the first 
calculation had been based on the assumption that she was male. Ms C said shed not seen 
the two calculations either and, she noted, none of Avivas correspondence refers to the 
gender error. Ms C referred to the 2021 EU Gender Directive which required annuity rates 
for men and women to be the same. Ms C said she wanted her complaint looked at further. 
Our Investigator replied to Ms C to say that whilst she understood Ms Cs frustrations it 
wasnt always possible for businesses to provide customers with direct contact information. 
And she said shed seen no evidence that Ms C had asked Aviva to delay paying her 
pension so that she could benefit from the bonuses due on 1 July 2022. Our Investigator 
said that whilst Aviva had confirmed there had been an administrative error when they 
calculated Ms Cs original annuity it hadnt ever confirmed what that error was exactly. Our 
Investigator confirmed again that she thought the compensation Aviva had paid was fair in 
Ms Cs circumstances. 
Aviva responded to say that it accepted our Investigators opinion providing it could deduct 
the interest it had already paid to Ms C from the new interest calculation. Our Investigator 
agreed and she also asked Aviva if it could provide the calculations for the two guaranteed 
annuity amounts and to highlight where, in the calculation for the first annuity, the error had 
occurred. Our Investigator also asked Aviva for a copy of the phone call with Ms C where it 
had told her the first calculation was higher based on the assumption that she was male. 
Aviva provided the call recording. Our Investigator listened to it, noting that Ms C had been 
told that the quote was incorrectly calculated on the basis that she was male but that that 
error had been corrected. She also noted that during the call Aviva told Ms C that had she 
been male, then the quote would have been higher. Our Investigator referred Aviva to the 
EU Gender Directive and asked if Ms C had been given a lower quote based on her gender. 
Aviva replied and said the EU Gender Directive covers annuity rates but not the guarantees 
under the policy. Consequently it said GARs remain different for males and females as they fell outside of the Directive. It said that the administrative error was that Ms Cs gender was 
incorrectly input as male so when the benefits were calculated the original quotation was 
based on male GARs. Aviva said Ms C now had the correct GAR based on her gender. 
Aviva provided the calculation for the second annuity quote and said it was still trying to 
obtain the calculation for the first one. 
Our Investigator told Ms C what Aviva had said and explained that whilst she was yet to 
receive the calculation for the first annuity quote she had seen the retirement pack Aviva had 
sent Ms C. She said this confirmed Ms Cs plan included guarantees in the form of GARs so, 
despite not seeing the first calculation, she had no reason to dispute Avivas explanation that 
the original quotation was higher owing to its error in inputting the incorrect gender. Our 
Investigator said that as pension providers are allowed to complete GAR calculations based 
on gender, in line with plans original policy terms, she wouldnt be asking it to honour the 
first quote it gave Ms C. Our Investigator said that she understood Ms Cs frustration over 
the error but wouldnt be changing her view about the complaint. 
Ms C asked if Aviva could pay her the recalculated interest without delay which Aviva agreed 
to do. Ms C also asked for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration and disappointment at being told she was actually to 
receive a much lower annuity than the one that Aviva had originally quoted her. And I can 
also understand why Ms C would want Aviva to honour the original quote it gave her. But Im 
afraid Im unable to agree with her that it should. Ill explain why. 
Firstly I should say that Im satisfied that legacy pension plans with guaranteed annuity rates 
fall outside the EU Gender Directive such that the underlying guarantees under the plans 
remain different for males and females. So Aviva isnt doing anything wrong in using gender 
in its GAR calculations. And I dont think the absence of the calculation for the first quotation 
precludes me from reaching a fair and reasonable decision on Ms Cs complaint. I say this 
because Aviva told Ms C during a call that the quote had been generated as a result of it 
inputting the incorrect gender. So, its admitted what went wrong. Ive seen no evidence that 
the second quotation was lower for any other reason. 
So Aviva, by its own admission, made an error when it calculated Ms Cs original annuity 
quote. It input the wrong gender in its system which resulted in the generation of a much 
higher guaranteed annuity quote than Ms C was, in fact, entitled to. When Aviva realised its 
error and adjusted its systems to reflect Ms Cs correct gender the annuity quoted was lower 
as a result. 
When a business makes an error, this Service aims to put the consumer back in to the 
position they would have been in had the error not occurred. Here, had Aviva input the 
correct gender at the outset Ms C the correct calculation would have been made and the 
correct quotation conveyed to Ms C. Ms C would have received, from the outset, the same 
annuity that she currently enjoys. What Ms C has suffered as a result of Avivas mistake is a 
loss of expectation; for a short while she expected to receive a retirement income of over 
£3,000 more per year than she was actually entitled to. But the fact remains, had things 
gone as they should, Ms C was never entitled to an annuity greater than £21,714.84.
Of course Ms C has suffered some trouble and upset as a consequence of her lost 
expectation for which she should be compensated, but I cant agree that it would be fair to make Aviva honour something to which Ms C was never entitled to in the first instance. To 
do so wouldnt be reasonable and wouldnt be placing Ms C back in the position she should 
be in but for Avivas error. 
Where a financial business, through its words or deeds, causes trouble and upset to a 
consumer above and beyond that which is normally associated with the matter being 
transacted, this Service can require it to pay the consumer compensation. Here I can see 
that Ms C was caused distress as a result of being told her annual pension was going to be 
significantly lower than she had originally thought. 
And I can see too that Aviva also delayed the processing of Ms Cs pension claim that 
resulted in her having to chase it to check that it was being progressed. Aviva has admitted 
that it failed to process Ms Cs pension claim withing its normal 10-day time scale so that 
when the annuity was eventually set up on 22 June 2022 three payments had already been 
missed. I can see that Aviva paid Ms C the missed payments the same day along with her 
July payment. But there were delays caused by Aviva which caused Ms C distress and 
inconvenience. 
Aviva has accepted that it failed to provide Ms C with a suitable level of service and it has 
paid her compensation  for the delays, errors and late payments  of £450. Ms C has said 
she thinks that the frustration, stress and inconvenience she has been caused is such that 
Aviva should pay her further compensation of £450. 
Ive thought carefully about the shortcomings in Avivas service and the trouble and upset it 
has caused Ms C but I think Avivas compensation payment of £450 is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of Ms Cs complaint. In reaching this decision Ive taken into account 
the compensation awards this Service has made in similar complaints and Im satisfied that 
this award is in line with those. Indeed, had this complaint passed across my desk without an 
award of compensation having already been made it is unlikely that I would have awarded 
any more than this. So Im not going to make Aviva pay any more. 
The issue of interest on the late payments of Ms Cs pension is not in dispute as Aviva has 
agreed to recalculate the amount due to Ms C based on this Services usual rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the payments should have been made to the date they were 
made on 22 June 2022. Aviva can deduct from the total the original interest sum of £14.88 it 
already paid Ms C.
Finally, for the sake of completeness, I note Ms Cs comment that the delays in making her 
payments were such that she could have waited for the annual bonuses to be added to her 
pension on 1 July 2022, but Ive seen no evidence that she at any point asked Aviva to delay 
paying her pension so that she could benefit from any bonus payment due on 1 July 2022. It 
follows that I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for something it was unaware of.
Putting things right
If it has not already done so, Aviva should re-calculate and pay to Ms C the interest on each 
delayed monthly annuity payment  using this Services usual rate of 8% simple per year  
from the date each payment was due to be paid to the date the payments were made on 22 
June 2022. 
HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this interest. If asked, it must 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited to take the steps Ive set out above in the Putting Things Right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman