DRN-3962912
The complaint
Mr M complains about charges applied to his account by American Express Services Europe 
Limited (Amex).
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M requested a supplementary Amex card. Amex issued the card, but 
Mr M later discovered that instead of the fee free card he wanted, a card with an annual fee 
of £1100 had been issued.
When Mr M discovered what had happened, he contacted Amex and changed the card to 
the free card. Amex issue a refund of £672.05. Amex said it couldnt find an online 
application or call recording to show which card Mr M had requested. It didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M said he was certain hed applied for the fee free card. He brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said that neither Amex nor Mr M could evidence how the application for the 
card had been made or what card had been requested. He said that, in the absence of any 
call notes, it was likely that the application had been made online by Mr M. The investigator 
said that he thought it unlikely that Mr M had applied for a fee free card and that Amex 
supplied a different card, because of the way the system operated. The investigator thought 
it was more likely that Mr M had selected the card he received.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he had completed the a[plication by phone and he was certain 
hed requested the fee free card.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that Amex had made an error 
and provided Mr M with a different card to the one he requested.
Mr M says he applied for the card by phone. This service has asked Amex for its call notes, 
but it has responded and confirmed that there are no records of a call relating to this 
application, and it says that this makes it more likely that Mr M made the application online.
Ive considered whether Mr M might have applied online. Amex hasnt been able to locate an 
online application but has explained that this is because of the length of time which has 
passed since the application was made. So, whilst theres no evidence of an online 
application, I think it remains more likely than not that this is how the application was made.
In circumstances where it isnt possible  for me to look at the actual application (or the call 
notes relating to the application), I have to reach my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities.
If Mr M had applied by telephone, I think there would be call notes. Amex has confirmed that 
there arent any call notes. So I think its more likely that the application was made online. An 
online application would require Mr M to select the card he wanted. The application would be 
processed automatically and the card issued. Because the system is automated, I dont think 
its likely that the wrong card would have been issued. It sems more likely  that Mr M received 
the card he selected, and that he made that selection in error.
On the balance of probabilities, I dont think Amex made an error. Amex has acted fairly and 
reasonably by refunding part of the cost of the card. I wont be asking it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman