DRN-3444891
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC returned one of its cheques in 
error causing inconvenience.
What happened
F issued a cheque for £9,415.44. On 16 November 2021 Barclays returned this cheque. The 
director is unhappy that the reason given - that the signature didnt match  wasnt a valid 
one. And that Barclays didnt make a sufficient attempt to check this with him. He says that 
following this up has caused inconvenience and needless phone calls. F would accept £250 
in compensation.
Barclays said it hadnt made any error. It said that the cheque had been sent for a review for 
a signature match. Three calls to F were attempted within five minutes but didnt connect. 
So, in line with its process it had returned the cheque. Barclays maintained that there were 
discrepancies in the signature. It reviewed payments and the triggers for this may vary.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the Barclays 
customer agreement stated that:
To keep your money safe, and to avoid mistakes, well only follow instructions if we think 
they are complete, clear, and come from you (or a third party you have properly authorised 
to give instructions on your behalf). Well take steps to check this before we do
anything.
Barclays had identified a signature mismatch and had followed its process. F had provided 
copies of cheques which had been paid and it said had the same signature. But even if the 
signatures were similar it didnt mean that Barclays had made an error in making additional 
checks on this one. It had attempted to contact F in the normal way. It was a matter for 
Barclays if it decided to withhold the number it was calling from. And it hadnt delayed the 
matter and had made the director aware of the reasons when he called.
F didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. It maintained that returning this 
cheque was an error. And if Barclays had been so worried about fraud then it should have 
made multiple attempts to contact F.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that the return of a cheque that had been genuinely signed on behalf of F 
resulted in inconvenience. The issue is whether Barclays was reasonably entitled to take this 
action.
As our investigator has set out Barclays has its own security processes to help identify 
whether there has been fraud attempted. That doesnt mean it has to check every cheque, 
but its process will identify ones, as in this case, for further review. It would generally bear a 
responsibility for paying a cheque that hadnt been authorised. There is a limited time to deal 
with a cheque when concerns are identified, and it has to decide whether or not to pay it. 
In the complaint form to this service the director of F says he tried to return a call that day.  
But when he did he was only told that he had been called from Barclays. He says he couldnt 
identify who called. Barclays says it tried to contact him three times and was unable to leave 
a message. It says that as the matter was urgent other methods of contact wouldnt be 
reasonable. Having not been able to get a response it says it acted prudently.
Barclays has shown it had genuine concerns about a cheque from F. It couldnt address 
those with F before the time a decision on whether to pay the cheque had to be made. It 
wrote to F about this on the day and has subsequently explained what happened. It is 
unfortunate that F would have confirmed the cheque as genuine if there had been contact. 
But having taken everything into account including what Barclays knew at the time I dont 
find it acted unreasonably. So, I dont consider that it needs to compensate F for what 
happened.
I appreciate the director of F will remain disappointed by my findings.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman