DRN-3648887
The complaint
Ms K and Mr K say Society of Lloyds (SoL) unfairly declined a claim against their 
Residential Let Property Owners insurance policy. They also say it was poorly handled. 
Reference to SoL include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it in detail. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Ms K and Mr K reported a large crack on an internal wall to SoL at their 
property they rented to a tenant. They say damage was found when trying to sell the 
property and was only noticed then as no property inspection had taken place due to Covid-
19, nor had the tenant reported these issues. 
SoL requested photos and reports to validate the claim. And once received, they requested 
a further report to be undertaken  which Ms K says was at her own expense. Following this 
report, SoL declined the claim as damage was the result of wear and tear and gradual 
deterioration. 
Ms K and Mr K werent happy and complained. They say SoL shouldnt have requested a 
further report be undertaken at their expense given what they had already provided. They 
maintained the claim should have been paid, and SoL handled it poorly overall. 
SoL responded to the complaint in June 2021 to say they relied on expert reports to decline 
the claim. They did, however, accept things should have been handled better, and paid Ms K 
and Mr K £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. As Ms K and Mr K 
remained unhappy, they approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought SoL declined the 
claim fairly and took reasonable steps to resolve the service issues Ms K and Mr K 
experienced during the claim. Ms K and Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to 
decide, so it was passed to me. They also say the property has since been sold at a reduced 
price due to the outstanding damage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K and Mr K have made many points in relation to this matter, I havent addressed each 
and every one. Were an informal service and so focus on what we consider to be the 
pertinent points. 
A key finding I must make is whether Im satisfied Ms K and Mr K have reasonably 
demonstrated their property was damaged by a one-off insured event. Or, if I think SoL 
declined the claim fairly. 
Ms K and Mr K commissioned expert reports which SoL relied on to decline the claim. As all 
parties have had sight of these, I wont repeat the contents of these reports in detail here. 
Ive considered the reports, and I understand trees were found to be growing within potential 
influencing distance of the property  which can result in subsidence. Although, the report 
goes on to say that, at the time of the experts inspection, the trees werent having an 
adverse effect on the property foundations. The rear elevation wall displayed no evidence of 
structural fractures  typically expected of subsidence  and importantly, the property 
showed no signs of subsidence or settlement. 
The report concluded that, the reported lateral distortion to the external walls is a result of 
inadequate lateral restraint being provided to the walls by the internal floor and wall 
structures and general age deterioration of the property. 
SoL considered this and concluded damage was most likely due to wear and tear and 
damage that happens gradually. So, they declined the claim. I find this was reasonable given 
the comments noted within this report. And I think SoL acted fairly when relying on the 
evidence presented by experts to decline the claim. 
Ive also considered Ms K and Mr Ks comments regarding the underground pipes. The 
report dated November 2020 suggests there were multiple issues with the drain run. The 
engineer goes on to make recommendations on how to undertake the repairs which they say 
would prevent further deterioration of the drain run. This, in my view, suggest the drains 
were in a poor state of repair and had deteriorated over time  rather than damaged as a 
result of a one-off insured event. 
Ms K and Mr K say tree roots could have contributed to the damage, the underground pipes 
leaked due to tree root growth, and tree root ingress was noted to the foundation of the 
property. Ms K and Mr K also say neighbouring properties were built in a very similar fashion 
to theirs, and neighbours hadnt reported any instances of movement or cracking  and 
properties dont just move on their own. 
I accept thats a fair comment  properties dont just move on their own. But, importantly, for 
a claim to be met, the onus is on a policyholder to demonstrate the main cause of damage 
was the result of an insured peril. Insurance policies dont cover all eventualities. 
So, having considered all the evidence available to me, Im satisfied SoL declined Ms K and 
Mr Ks claim fairly and reasonably. Its clear the possibility of subsidence was investigated by 
experts but found no evidence of this. Rather, they considered the main cause of damage to 
be due to inadequate lateral restraint and general age deterioration of the property. And Ive 
also kept in mind these findings were concluded by experts independent to both Ms K and 
Mr K, and SoL. As such, I wont be requiring SoL to take any further action in respect of the 
claim. 
There were some service issues during the claim and Ms K and Mr K say SoL requested 
they provided a new report at the own expense needlessly. Its important to explain its 
common  particularly in claims involving potential subsidence  for an insurer to request a policyholder provides more information to validate a claim, which can be at a cost to them. I 
dont find the request for more information in this case was unreasonable or excessive. And 
in any event, as Ive mentioned above, its for a policyholder to demonstrate their claim is 
one the policy should respond to. 
Im aware of the other service issues Ms K and Mr K experienced in respect of delays, which 
Ive no doubt would have added to their distress and frustration  over and above whats 
naturally expected following a claim. I do, however, think SoL took reasonable steps to 
acknowledge these delays, and the impact these had, by paying Ms K and Mr K £75 
compensation. I think this amount is fair, reasonable, and proportionate in the 
circumstances, so I wont be requiring SoL to increase this. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms K and Mr K. But my decision 
ends what we  in attempting to resolve their dispute with SoL  can do for them. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman