DRN-3393366
The complaint
Ms P complains about Haven Insurance Company Limited (HIC) and the service they 
provided after she was involved in a road traffic accident. This includes the valuation of her 
vehicle and their decision to deduct her outstanding premiums for the policy year.
Ms P has been represented by Mr J throughout this complaint. For ease of reference, Ive 
referred to any comments made, and actions taken, by both Ms P and her representative as 
Ms P throughout the decision for ease of reference.
What happened
Ms P held a motor insurance policy underwritten by HIC, which was incepted in January 
2021. In May 2021, Ms P was involved in a road traffic accident that led to her car being 
deemed a total loss.
Ms P dealt with the company acting on behalf of the third-party insurers initially. But she was 
referred to HIC to deal with the total loss aspect of her claim. And HIC offered Ms P a pre-
accident valuation (PAV) payment of £1,737.30, after her excess and outstanding policy 
premiums had been deducted. Ms P didnt think this valuation was fair. So, she raised a 
complaint.
Ms P was unhappy with the valuation placed on her vehicle. She thought it was too low 
compared to the price she bought it for, and she explained the final PAV payment shed 
received wouldnt allow her to purchase a new vehicle of a similar make and model. So, she 
wanted the valuation to be increased. Ms P was also unhappy with the excess amount as 
she didnt think shed agreed to an excess so high. And she didnt think it was fair for HIC to 
deduct her outstanding policy premiums when shed insured another car with them. Finally, 
Ms P was unhappy that she hadnt been offered a courtesy car and the time it took for her 
claim to be settled.
HIC responded and didnt agree. They thought they had acted fairly, and in line with the 
terms of Ms Ps policy, when processing and settling the claim. And they thought the PAV 
payment they offered was reasonable. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Ms P remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. They didnt think HICs 
valuation was fair, as it didnt consider two trade guide valuations that were for higher that 
the valuation HIC used. So, they thought this should be increased. And they didnt think HIC 
were fair to deduct Ms Ps outstanding premiums, as Ms P had insured a new vehicle with 
them to replace the vehicle deemed a total loss. So, they thought this should be refunded to 
Ms P. But they did think HIC had applied the policy excess fairly and has acted reasonably in 
terms of the time it took to settle the claim and the offering of a courtesy car. 
So, overall, they thought HIC should pay Ms P a total of £634.16 plus 8% statutory interest 
from the date the original settlement was paid until the recommended amount is paid to Ms 
P.
Ms P accepted this recommendation. But HIC only accepted it in part. They agreed to 
increase Ms Ps PAV payment, plus the 8% statutory interest. But they didnt agree to refund 
the outstanding premium amount they originally deducted, as they thought this amount had 
been deducted fairly, in line with the terms of their policy. As HIC didnt agree to our 
investigators entire recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
I recognise that Ms P accepted the entirety of our investigators original recommendation. 
So, I think its reasonable for me to assume that Ms P accepted our investigators conclusion 
that the excess HIC have applied, as well as the length of time it took the settle the claim, 
was reasonable. So, I havent commented on these issues any further.
I also acknowledge that both Ms P and HIC accept the original valuation placed on Ms Ps 
vehicle was unfair. And they have both accepted that HIC should pay Ms P an additional 
£259.46, which brings the valuation in line with the average of all three trade guides. This 
average has been calculated in line with the standard industry approach, so I think this 
increase is a fair one. And as its not been disputed by either party, I wont be discussing this 
is any further detail.
Instead, my decision has focused on the main area of dispute, which centres around HICs 
decision to deduct Ms Ps outstanding policy premiums from the PAV payment she initially 
received.
HIC think they acted in line with the terms of Ms Ps policy when deducting these premiums 
and so, they dont think this amount should be refund to Ms P. Ive looked at the terms of Ms 
Ps policy, and I dont dispute it states that if HIC make settlement of the market value of Ms 
Ps car, they will deduct any outstanding premiums from any settlement due. So, I can 
understand why HIC believe theyve acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms.
But the terms also explain in the same situation unless we agree to let this insurance 
continue on a replacement vehicle, the insurance will end of the date you accept settlement. 
So, for the deduction to apply, I think its reasonable for me to assume Ms Ps insurance 
policy would need to have ended and no replacement vehicle added to the policy.
I can see from HICs system notes, and I can hear from the call recordings from HIC 
provided, that Ms P was initially provided with the PAV offer on 7 July. And I can see from 
this date, she entered into discussions with HIC about the PAV and her dispute about its 
amount. HIC handled Ms Ps complaint around this and following their response, I can see 
Ms P spoke to HIC on 27 July, where it was confirmed that Ms Ps policy was still valid until 
January 2022. And on this call, Ms P explained she intended to insure another vehicle on 
that policy.
I can see HIC then transferred Ms P over to the broker associated with the sale of the 
original policy to discuss this, where a new vehicle was insured on a policy underwritten by 
HIC. And the following day, Ms P requested that the outstanding premiums be refunded on 
this basis. HIC refused this request. So, Ive thought about whether this was fair for HIC to do. And I dont think it was.
When our service considers a complaint, it will take it account any terms and conditions 
associated to an agreement or a policy and think about whether a business has acted within 
these. But as well as this, we will also think about whether we think that business has acted 
fairly when doing so.
In this situation, I dont dispute a term in Ms Ps policy allows HIC to deduct the outstanding 
policy premium from a PAV payment where an insured vehicle has been deemed a total 
loss. But I do think the terms also suggest this is done where a policy has ended, and no 
replacement vehicle has been insured with HIC. 
And our services general approach to situations like this is that, if a customer has insured a 
replacement vehicle with the same insurer within a reasonable amount of time, then a 
deduction of outstanding premiums is unfair.
Ms P insured a replacement vehicle on a policy underwritten by HIC within four weeks of the 
initial PAV being offered to her. Considering Ms Ps dispute of this valuation, and the time it 
took for HIC to respond to this dispute, I dont think this is an unreasonable amount of time. 
So, I think made a reasonable attempt to continue with her insurance policy. And because of 
this, I dont think HIC have acted fairly when deducting the outstanding policy premiums from 
Ms Ps PAV amount. So, Ive then thought about what I think HIC should do to put things 
right.
Putting things right
Any award or recommendation I make is intended to place Ms P back in the position she 
wouldve been in, had HIC acted fairly in the first instance.
In this situation, had HIC acted fairly, I think they wouldve obtained trade guide valuations in 
line with standard industry practice when they first valued Ms Ps vehicle. And if they had, I 
think the average of these guides wouldve led to a higher valuation than the amount Ms P 
received. So, I think HIC should pay Ms P an additional £259.46 to ensure she receives a 
fair valuation for her vehicle.
And if HIC had acted fairly, I think they wouldve recognised Ms Ps attempts to insure 
another vehicle with them and treat this as a continuation of her original policy. And in this 
situation, I wouldnt then expect HIC to deduct Ms Ps outstanding policy premiums. So, I 
think HIC should refund the outstanding premium charge of £374.70.
I also think HIC should add 8% statutory interest to these payments, from the date the claim 
was originally settled to the date they are paid to recognise the length of time Ms P has been 
without these funds unfairly.
I understand this isnt the outcome HIC were hoping for. And I recognise they have returned 
the policy premiums to Ms Ps broker, so they feel this is something Ms P should raise with 
the broker instead. But I think this deduction was made as part of the claim process, which 
HIC are responsible for. I dont think its fair for Ms P to be left out of pocket unfairly, due to 
actions taken between HIC and the broker themselves. So, this hasnt impacted the decision 
Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms Ps complaint and I direct Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to take the following action:Pay Ms P a total of £634.16, to reimburse her for the outstanding premium charge 
and difference in valuation of her vehicle; and
Add 8% statutory interest to this amount from the date Ms Ps claim was original 
settled to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman