DRN-1438318
 
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited didnt properly deal with claims he made on his 
home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr M made a claim on his home insurance policy to investigate the cause 
of a bad smell at his home. His home insurer sent out one of its contractors to look into the 
cause of the damage. The contractor sucked out debris from the manhole and CCTV 
investigation was carried out. The contractor found a faulty rat trap was the most likely cause 
of the blockage.
Mr M got in touch with Aviva to complain. Hed made a claim on his home emergency policy 
about three weeks beforehand for a blocked drain. One of Avivas engineers had attended 
and cleared the blockage. Mr M said the engineer had left some gravel blocking the drain. 
He felt the engineer had misdiagnosed the issue. Mr M also said another of Avivas 
engineers had installed the rat trap for him during work on a previous claim. So he thought 
Aviva should reimburse him for the excess hed paid and reimburse his home insurer for the 
costs itd paid for the repair works.
Aviva said its engineers notes from a claim in 2017 suggested some gravel would need to 
be removed and it hadnt been. It apologised for the gravel thatd been left behind. But it said 
it had no record of a rat trap being fitted. So it found this had been private work between Mr 
M and its engineer, which it wasnt liable for.
Mr M wasnt happy with Avivas response and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator explained that the fitting of a rat trap as a private arrangement between Mr 
M and an engineer isnt a regulated activity we can look at under our rules. So Mr M asked 
us to focus on the failure to remove the shingle properly. He said this had led to the 
blockage.
The investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought the report from 
the contractor whod investigated the blockage on the home insurers behalf showed the 
main cause of the blockage was the faulty rat trap. She said Aviva had explained that it had 
removed shingle and gravel from Mr Ms drains previously. But it had said the build-up of 
shingle was nothing to do with work it had completed. And its notes showed that following its 
engineers visit at the start of 2019; the drains were running clear. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator. He maintained Aviva hadnt done its job properly either 
in 2017 or early in January 2019. He said while the drain had been free-flowing, the gravel 
had built up again over a very short space of time. He said hed asked the engineer to 
remove all of the shingle, but the engineer had only had a small tool which removed only a 
little shingle at a time. He told us the engineer hadnt been willing to finish the removal 
works. Mr M also told us his home insurer hadnt paid for a replacement rat trap, as this wasnt 
covered, but it had paid for a tanker to remove the shingle. He said this showed the insurer 
considered the shingle was the main cause of the damage. And he said the failure of the 
engineer to remove the shingle in 2017 meant it had built up and built up over a two year 
period, which had gone on to cause the blockage.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think Aviva needs 
to pay Mr M anything. Ill explain why.
Its clear Mr M feels strongly about his complaint and that he believes it was failures on the 
part of Avivas engineers that led to him needing to make a claim against his home 
insurance policy. Ive carefully considered the claims notes from the time and Mr Ms 
recollections about what happened.
Avivas notes from the claim Mr M made in September 2017 do show that the engineer 
intended that subcontractors would be arranged to clean all rubble and shingle from all 
lines. Aviva acknowledges this wasnt followed up and didnt happen. So I can understand 
why Mr M now believes that this was a direct cause of the blockage in January 2019 which 
led to the bad smell in his home. After all, shingle was removed from his drain as part of the 
home insurance claim.
The engineers notes from Mr Ms early 2019 claim say: Found manhole at side 
blockedremoved stones with gully grabs and rodded mh2 clear of paper/waste. Flow 
restored all tested ok. Customer happy. It seems that at the time of this visit, the engineer 
was able to clear the visible blockage to Mr Ms drain  both stones and other waste. The 
flow had been restored, which is likely to have suggested the blockage had been cleared. 
The notes also say that Mr M was happy with the work the engineer had carried out at this 
point. 
I appreciate the bad smell appeared around three weeks later. So Ive looked carefully at the 
independent expert evidence Ive been provided with to establish the most likely cause of the 
blockage. I also need to establish whether any failure on the part of Avivas engineers in 
2017 and 2019 was the main reason for the blockage later on in January 2019.
Ive placed significant weight on the home insurers contractors report. Thats because its 
clear the contractor carried out a detailed investigation into what was causing the 
blockage/bad smell. Initial tests suggested large amounts of shingle were being returned 
which indicated a collapse, so a CCTV survey was needed. It seems the vacuum tanker 
formed a part of this investigation, sucking out debris from the drain so that the CCTV survey 
could happen. This survey found that:
The rat trap that has been installed is holding the flow of the waste and water and is the 
most likely cause of the line being blocked. It also states: Damage due to poor/faulty 
installation or deterioration of the rat trap over time.
While the report makes reference to shingle being returned, it doesnt find this as being the 
main cause of the damage or being the cause of the blockage. The contractors found the 
cause of the blockage was the faulty rat trap. The contractors report is the only piece of expert evidence I have to show me the likely 
cause of the blockage. Mr M hasnt provided me with any evidence from another contractor 
to counter these findings. So I think its most likely the cause of the blockage was the faulty 
rat trap. This means I dont think I can fairly find any failures on the part of Avivas engineers 
to clear the shingle caused the bad smell or caused the main blockage.
Id also add that Mr Ms own financial loss in this case is the excess of £250 which he paid to 
his home insurer as part of his contract with it to deal with his claim. So even if I had thought 
Mr Ms complaint should succeed, any award I made for his losses wouldve been limited to 
the excess he paid.
But in this case, as I think Aviva has treated Mr M fairly, Im not telling it to pay it anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman