DRN-3654307
The complaint
Ms F says Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans lent irresponsibly to her.
What happened
Ms Fs complaint is about a loan provided by Oakbrook. The loan was taken out in June 
2021 in the sum of £1000 repayable over a term of 30 months.
Ms F complains that Oakbrook irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that Oakbrook had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending the money, and said that there was 
nothing in the information it had obtained from the checks which meant that it shouldnt lend 
to Ms F.
Ms F disagreed with the adjudicator so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending including 
the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice is set out on this services 
website.
Oakbrook needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms F 
could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner.
Theres no set list of checks that a business needs to carry out. It needs to make sure that 
the checks it carries out are reasonable and proportionate when considering things like how 
much was being lent, the repayment amount and the consumers income and expenditure.
Less detailed affordability checks can be reasonable and proportionate where  a consumers 
financial situation is stable, and where borrowing is insignificant given the consumers overall 
financial circumstances
I can see that when Ms F applied for the loan, she declared annual income of £35,000. 
Oakwood validated this and calculated net monthly income of £2090. It also carried out 
checks of Ms Fs monthly expenditure and calculated that she had monthly disposable 
income after repayment of the loan of £804.
Oakwood also carried out checks on Ms fs credit file. It found no information which gave it 
cause for concern about Ms Fs financial situation. Using the information it had obtained, 
Oakwood carried out an affordability assessment and found that there was nothing to 
indicate that the loan wasnt affordable for Ms F.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Oakwood were reasonable and 
proportionate. I havent seen anything in the information it obtained to suggest that it 
shouldve carried out further detailed checks. Ms F has said that Oakwood shouldve 
checked her bank statements before approving the loan. Theres no obligation on Oakwood 
to do this and Id only expect it to do so if the information it had already obtained gave cause 
for concern about Ms Fs financial situation. Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks 
were reasonable and proportionate.
Ive also considered whether the decision to lend was fair. Ive looked at the information 
obtained from the checks. I havent seen anything to suggest that there was a risk that Ms F 
wouldnt be able to afford the loan. The loan was relatively small, taking into account Ms Fs 
overall financial circumstances. Looking at Ms Fs monthly income and expenditure, there 
was sufficient disposable income to afford the loan.
Ms F has said that she had other credit cards and debts at the time she applied for the loan. 
Ive thought about this. However, based on what Ive seen, Ms Fs credit file didnt show that 
Ms F had other significant borrowing. There were no defaults, arrears or payment 
arrangements recorded on Ms Fs credit file and only one unsecured loan which had a very 
low monthly repayment.
Having considered all of the available information, I havent seen anything to suggest that 
the loan wasnt affordable. Im satisfied that the lending decision was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman