DRN-4002448
The complaint
Miss W has complained about her car insurer Aviva Insurance Limited in respect of a claim 
she made to it for damage to her car which was stolen but recovered.
What happened
Miss Ws car was stolen in September 2021 but recovered about a month later. About a 
month after that Aviva issued a final response letter in respect of concerns with the claim 
raised by Miss W to that point. At that time Aviva was waiting on Miss W providing some 
documents. They were provided on 16 November 2021. Miss W should have been provided 
with a courtesy car by Aviva, but this didnt happen, even though Aviva had decided to repair 
her car. Into 2022 Miss W was still without her car and a courtesy car. In late April 2022 
Aviva provided a courtesy car to Miss W and it was 23 June 2022 before the garage was 
able to confirm that her car was ready to be returned to her (although Im aware that there 
was a further problem after this which Miss W and Aviva were able to resolve between 
them). 
During some of that time Miss W was out of the country, but there were also times when she 
was at home without the benefit of a courtesy car. She complained to Aviva as she felt 
isolated, had had to miss work and had to fly home from abroad on one occasion to comply 
with Avivas engineers demand for her to inspect the car. She was also worried that, 
throughout this period, she was having to keep paying the finance on the car, along with all 
the insurance and tax  all whilst without having any benefit from it and because shed likely 
have sold it once repaired. Miss W complained to us.
Aviva, following some initial findings issued by our Investigator, agreed to pay £200 
compensation for upset. In further findings our Investigator said that Aviva should pay £420 
as compensation for loss of use for Miss W not having had a car in November and 
December 2021 (£10 a day), reimburse one and a half months road tax costs incurred at 
that time, and pay £567.50, plus interest as reimbursement of half of the cost of flights 
Miss W had to book to inspect the car. Which Aviva agreed to. But Aviva was not prepared 
to agree to another recommendation our Investigator made  to pay Miss W £5,850 in 
compensation for missing work because she didnt have access to a car. Where three jobs in 
total had been missed, and Miss Ws gross earnings from which would have been around 
£20,000. In that respect Aviva said that Miss W shouldve used public transport. 
Miss W remained generally unhappy. She felt she had missed a lot of work, so for her 
£5,850 was not enough. And she maintained that, in her circumstances she could not have 
used public transport and could not have, in fact had not been able to, hire a car. She 
explained again that shed been struggling financially not least with, and because of, her 
continued car payments. She felt Aviva had left her in a wholly unfair situation which, as well 
as causing her to lose work, had been very upsetting and frustrating for her. She noted that 
when she and Aviva had resolved what had happened after June 2022, it, without question, 
had paid her £4,000 for one missed job. She said she wanted Aviva to have to compensate 
her for all three of the jobs shed provided evidence for, all of her flight costs, and to pay her 
£3,150 as compensation for loss of use where the daily rate was £15, and the £200 
recommended for distress and inconvenience.  Her complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva failed Miss W here. She was entitled to a courtesy car and yet she was not 
provided with one, Aviva did not even attempt to provide her with one, for many months. 
I think it has accepted that it shouldve provided her one from 16 November 2021. All the 
while it had her car and the repairs took far longer to progress than they should have done. 
At least in part due to Avivas failure to deal with the claim pro-actively in November and 
December 2021 as I reference below. I accept that all of that was frustrating for Miss W and 
caused her a lot of inconvenience. Much of which could have been avoided if the repair had 
been completed earlier or a courtesy car had been provided. So what I have to do here is 
decide what is fairly and reasonably required to make up for everything Miss W went through 
on account of Avivas failures.
Miss W and Aviva have agreed to £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I think 
that is fair and reasonable. In saying that I note that Miss W was out of the country a lot after 
the end of December 2021, and Aviva did call Miss W to try and provide a courtesy car at 
the end of February  but Miss W said she would have to call it back. 
I also think the loss of use award proposed by our Investigator is fair and reasonable. I note 
Miss W has asked for a higher rate to be paid and over a longer period. However, Im not 
minded to say it would be fair for Aviva to compensate for Miss W not being able to use her 
car during periods she was out of the country. I know Miss W was out of the country over 
New Year, she returned for just a few days and then went abroad again. And it was from this 
trip that she had to return in February to inspect her car, and at this point Aviva did start 
trying to provide Miss W with a courtesy car. And the rate of £10 a day is a standard rate 
often applied in this sort of circumstance. Ive seen no good reason to depart from that rate 
here and apply a higher sum. Aviva should have provided Miss W with a courtesy car on 
16 November 2021 and she left the country on 28 December 2021. That is 42 days. So £420 
is a fair and reasonable sum which I shall award to Miss W.   
Aviva, in November 2021, seemingly had a concern as to whether some damage on 
Miss Ws car was pre-existing to the incident. Aviva wanted to find an old report relating to a 
previous incident but also asked Miss W to attend the garage to inspect her vehicle. Miss W 
declined to do so. The report couldnt be found and, in late December Aviva decided to try 
again to get Miss W to inspect the car  but this was just a few days before Miss W was due 
to leave the country and by the time the matter was considered further in January 2022, 
Miss W was abroad and not due back until March 2022. It felt it was necessary for its 
engineer to speak to Miss W whilst she inspected the car. I think, in the first instance, this 
was not an unreasonable request from it. However, Miss W was not able to attend a meeting 
at that time. And Aviva didnt look to rearrange this in the period after, at least not until only a 
few days before Miss W went away. I dont think Aviva handled the claim well at this time, it 
should have been more proactive to progress things. And when the need to inspect was 
highlighted again when Miss W was about to travel and then was out of the country, Aviva 
didnt look to move things forward in any other way. Rather it insisted on the inspection going 
ahead, which meant Miss W had to fly home. I dont think Avivas insistence on the personal 
inspection at that time was fair and reasonable. However, I bear in mind that Miss W did 
know in November that Aviva wanted her to inspect her car  and had she been a little more 
flexible in November, or even December, that inspection could have occurred long before 
she left the country. And she also returned home for a few days in January 2022 as well. So I think its fair and reasonable, on this occasion, for the parties to share the flight costs 
Miss W incurred. That share is a sum of £567.50 to which Aviva should add interest at 8% 
simple per year from the date Miss W paid for the flight tickets until this sum is paid to her.
Turning to Miss Ws loss of earnings, and with regret for any disappointment this may cause 
her, I do think that she could potentially have done more to avoid not being able to attend 
those jobs. I understand that Miss W has to take a lot of equipment with her to any job and 
so it does seem that travelling by bus and train is not best suited to that. And I understand 
that she is a young driver, so finding a hire car would be more difficult for her. It would also 
likely require a deposit and I understand that Miss W has explained that she was struggling 
financially during this period. However, I note our Investigator was able to find a hire 
company that would have accepted Miss W and which would have charged a deposit which, 
at times during the period in question, Miss W did have funds available to cover. A deposit 
would have come off the bank accounts available balance until the car was returned. And 
Miss W would only have needed a car for a day or two at a time. So Miss W wouldnt have 
been without the benefit of the deposit for very long. In exchange for that Miss W would have 
earned several thousands of pounds for each job. I think, in the circumstances, she should 
and could have done more to attend those jobs.
But I appreciate that Avivas failure had left Miss W in a very tricky position and that shes 
said that whilst she tried to find a hire car  her searches at that time showed none were 
available. I appreciate that as April 2022 came around Miss W had been without her car or a 
courtesy car for a very long time. Shed also been expecting her car to be returned to her in 
its fixed state for quite some time too. So I accept it was likely tricky for her to know what to 
do in terms of trying in advance to book a hire car, and, of course the deposit amount set 
aside from her bank account would have been unavailable to her for longer in a scenario 
where she booked a hire car ahead of time. I accept that on at least one occasion, Miss W 
had such little funds in her bank account that she would most likely not have been able to 
hire a car. I take into account what Miss W would have earnt but also bear in mind that is not 
what her net income from that work would have been. Bearing everything in mind, I am 
satisfied that requiring Aviva to pay Miss W £5,850 is a fair and reasonable way for it to 
compensate her for income she likely would have had but for its failures. I am also satisfied 
that to require it to pay any more than this would be unfair and unreasonable in all of the 
circumstances here where I am also satisfied that, despite its clear failures, Miss W could 
have done more to avoid any other losses which may have occurred.
I know Miss W is concerned about her finance agreement. And that she has had to pay this 
during the period of repairs. However, as our Investigator explained, by continuing to pay 
that, Miss W has reduced the amount owing to the finance company  which puts her in a 
better position when she sells the car. I know that shell have had to pay insurance but her 
not having her car didnt mean that insurance was not of benefit to her. But regarding road 
tax I think Aviva should reimburse this to her for the month and a half it was causing the 
delay in progressing the claim during November and December 2021. At this time she had 
no car and it had not been clear with her about what was happening with her car, or what 
would happen given she had declined to inspect it. And without clear information Miss W 
couldnt make an informed decision whether to take her car out of tax. So, subject to Miss W 
showing Aviva proof that her car was taxed at the time, Aviva should reimburse her cost 
incurred for one and a half months tax.
I know Miss W feels let down by Aviva. And I think it did fail her during its handling of this 
claim. I think it needs to act to put that right, and Im satisfied that the awards Ive described 
above and bulleted below fairly and reasonably do that.Putting things right
I require Aviva to pay Miss W:
£200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
£420 compensation for loss of use of a car.
£567.50 as compensation for half of the flight costs incurred, plus interest* applied to this 
sum from the date the flights were paid for until settlement is made.
£5,850 as compensation for lost earnings for missed work. 
An amount, subject to proof in reimbursement of her cost to tax her car between 
16 November 2021 and 28 December 2021.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Aviva to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman