DRN-2769828
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) partially declined 
their claim under their building insurance. 
  
What happened
In October 2018 Mr and Mrs C had a leak in their home that caused extensive damage. Due 
to Mr and Mrs Cs vulnerabilities, they chose to instruct their own loss assessor who could 
handle the claim. Their insurers, RSA were contacted to make a claim and it appointed loss 
adjusters to assess the damage. 
Mr and Mrs C felt that RSAs initial assessment of the damage was incorrect as it hadnt 
considered the quality of the repairs and high standard of redecoration. So, RSA 
reconsidered the claim and increased the settlement to £17,000.
Mr and Mrs C were not happy with this increased amount as they said it failed to provide for 
the full redecoration costs and failed to provide a payment for Mr and Mrs own loss 
assessors fees, as per the policy terms. So, they raised a complaint. In RSAs final 
response, it said that the settlement offered was fair and so there was nothing further it could 
reasonably do. Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with this outcome and referred their complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that RSA didnt make an error and concluded that it had applied the terms and 
conditions fairly. So the offer made by RSA was reasonable and there was nothing further 
that he could fairly ask it to do, to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator as they felt that RSA hadnt complied with 
the terms and conditions of the policy by failing to settle their loss assessors fees. And they 
felt that there was a shortfall of the amount offered from RSA, for the redecoration. So, Mr 
and Mrs C asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint should be upheld in part. I issued a 
provisional decision on 17 March 2021 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 
16 April 2021. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, I intend to partially uphold this complaint. I understand that this wont be the 
full outcome that Mr and Mrs C wouldve liked but I hope my reasons go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have reviewed the policy documents and can see that Mr and Mrs C had a home insurance 
policy that covered surveyors fees once a claim under the buildings insurance had been 
accepted. In this case RSA, accepted the claim and accepted that Mr and Mrs C had 
instructed their own loss assessor. The main issue here is whether RSA were fair in 
declining to pay for Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessors fees. 
In the terms of the policy it says: If we accept a claim under The Buildings Section, we will 
also pay for the following: (a) Architects and surveyors fees necessary for restoring the 
Buildings.  In view of this, I think it allows for the payment of surveyors fees provided that 
they were necessary for restoring the building. 
RSA has said that the fees incurred through the loss assessor were not necessary for the 
restoration of the building and so, they werent covered under the policy. In addition, the 
policy defines what would be the restoration of the building and what would be paid for, as it 
says: (b) the necessary cost of removing debris and demolishing or supporting the damaged 
parts of the buildings we have agreed to pay.  (c) the cost of meeting building regulations or 
municipal or local authority bye-laws. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that their loss assessors role was to deal with the claim as they 
were in poor health and unable to do so. The policy terms specifically excluded fees for the 
preparation of the claim. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to have relied upon 
these exclusion clauses when it declined to pay for Mr and Mrs Cs loss assessor fees. 
I have next considered whether the offer made by RSA for the repairs was fair. RSAs first 
offer of in excess of £10,000 was reconsidered and increased to it full and final offer of 
£17,000. Mr and Mrs C have said that this offer is around 50% less than all the quotes, 
including their loss adjusters fee, as a figure that would restore their home back to the pre- 
escape of water. Theyve said that even without the including of their professional fees, to 
repair their home to the high standard that it had been in, quotes amounted to in excess of 
£27,000 - £10,000 plus, more than the full and final offer from RSA.
In assessing whether RSA were reasonable in its offer, I have looked at RSAs assessment 
of what it said it was likely to cost to repair. As well as the breakdown and quotes of the 
costs that Mr and Mrs C have obtained.
As I have already decided on Mr and Mrs Cs surveyors fees, I wont be revisiting this point 
again. But excluding those fees, RSA said that the offer included: the payment for the 
furniture, door replacement, electrical costs and an inspection of some speakers. It also 
accepted that it would meet the costs of re-decoration of the affected areas on an uplifted 
basis, as it recognised the high standard of decoration. It also allowed for some plastering 
which was limited to two square metres.
I asked RSA to provide me with details of how it arrived at the figure of £17,000, as a full and 
final settlement. But even allowing for some delay, it hasnt provided this. On this basis the 
evidence before me relates to Mr and Mrs Cs breakdown of the costs needed to put their 
home back into the position it was pre the escape of water. 
In addition, I asked RSA to provide me with a copy of the additional surveyors report, this 
also wasnt provided. As mentioned, Mr and Mrs C have provided quotes detailing the 
breakdown of the works required and the cost. Consequently, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint as I dont think RSA has been fair in its assessment of the cost of restoring the 
property back to its original form.
I note that the quotes obtained are now a few years old and I think it would be necessary to 
get up to date quotes which both RSA and Mr and Mrs C should agree upon. 
To put matters right, I have no doubt that this experience (given Mr and Mrs Cs 
vulnerabilities) would have been distressing not least as Im told that the house is in the 
same state of disrepair following the escape of water. For this, I think its reasonable that 
RSA pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
  
Putting things right
RSA said that it had no further points to add to the provisional decision. It also said that 
should the ombudsmans decision be that we should appoint a surveyor to carry out a new 
review, then this will be requested immediately, and for the soonest available date.
Mr and Mrs C said they were grateful for the provisional decision but queried who would be 
responsible for instructing the independent assessor and as the damage happened about 
two and a half years ago, whether the whole process could be expediated.  
As I outlined in my provisional decision, RSA should appoint a new independent surveyor to 
carry out an inspection of the damage and compile a scope of works. The scope of works 
should also give details about costings. If the costs have increased and the quote is higher 
than the previous offer, RSA ought to use this as a basis to settle the claim.  RSA should 
appoint the surveyor as soon as possible.
As RSA hasnt commented on the provisional decision and as Mr and Mrs C havent 
objected to the recommendations, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint in part. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should appoint a new, independent surveyor, as 
soon as possible, to inspect the property and draw up a scope of works. If the quoted 
amount is higher than its offer, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should use this as the 
basis to settle the claim.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC should also pay interest on the compensation, at a 
rate of 8% simple a year from the date of payment, to settlement. 
If HM Revenue & Customs requires Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC to deduct tax 
from the interest payment referred above, Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance PLC must give 
Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax they deduct if they ask them for one.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman