DRN-3487696
The complaint
Ms R complains Mosshill Credit Union Limited (MCUL) didnt provide her with enough 
financial support during the Covid 19 pandemic.
What happened
Ms S took out a loan of £800 in 2018 which was added to an existing loan. She was required 
to make fortnightly payments of £82.50. Ms S has said shes self-employed and due to the 
pandemic, there were periods of time where she was unable to work. Because of this she 
contacted MCUL to ask for assistance. Shes unhappy it failed to freeze interest or put a hold 
on her account. Ms S also says she was made to feel belittled by staff at MCUL. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S had a loan with MCUL. She was behind on her payments from 2018 onwards. In 2020 
her income was impacted by the pandemic, so she asked MCUL for support. 
Over the next year or so MCUL agreed various payment holds and reduced payment plans 
with Ms S. I find it treated her fairly here as she needed support, and she got it. I recognise 
Ms S may consider MCUL contacted her more than was necessary, but I consider it was 
appropriate for MCUL to want to understand her situation as things progressed.
Ms S main concern is how the payment holds and reduced payment plans impacted her 
outstanding balance as she says MCUL didnt stop applying interest. I have reviewed her 
account history and can see when no payments were made, no interest was applied. And I 
can see when payments were made, the interest applied was considerably less than the 
value of the payment. And I can see her outstanding balance reduced throughout. 
This has no doubt been an incredibly stressful time for Ms S due to her situation with her 
business during the pandemic. Im aware that she had to support young children whilst 
running a house and paying priority bills, and shes said that this whole situation has 
impacted her health. But based on everything Ive seen, I think MCUL have Ms S fairly as 
despite not paying what she should have, the debt didnt increase. Because of this, I dont 
think MCUL need to do anything further.
Im aware Ms S is dissatisfied with some of the comments made by MCUL employees, such 
as when they commented on her working arrangements. I agree some of the comments, on 
their own, could be considered inappropriate. But from looking at things holistically and given 
the somewhat personal nature of the relationships involved, I dont consider MCULs 
comments caused Ms S a level of distress or inconvenience that warrants compensation. So 
for this reason I dont think MCUL need to do anything further here.
Ms S also said she wanted to change her personal details, but shes been told that she 
needs to go to branch which is difficult for her due to her working hours. MCUL say theyve 
asked her for her marriage certificate previously, but Ms S says shes never been asked to 
provide it. I dont think MCULs request is unreasonable and if Ms S still needs to change 
any details, Id encourage her to get in touch with MCUL.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman