DRN-1670796
 
The complaint
Mr Z says that after he booked airline tickets through his account with Revolut Ltd, his 
account has been debited twice for two of the tickets.
What happened
Mr Z booked three airline tickets using his Revolut account on 19 September 2019. These 
three transactions showed on his account as Reverted and werent debited to the account. 
In total these flights were priced at 535.38 EUR.
Believing that these transactions hadnt been completed, Mr Z contacted the airline and 
booked the same three flights again on 27 September 2019. This time the total cost was 
535.53 EUR, and these were shown on his account as Reverted.
On 29 September 2019, the airline debited Mr Zs account for three tickets totalling 535.38 
EUR. Then on 7 October 2019, the airline debited a further amount of 535.53 EUR.
On the 25 November 2019, the airline credited Mr Zs account with 112.41 EUR. This was a 
refund for one of the tickets he purchased on 27 September 2019.
Mr Z complained to Revolut on 29 September 2019 saying it had allowed the airline to take 
funds from his account for the tickets he booked on 19 September 2019, when he 
reasonably considered the purchase of these tickets hadnt completed. He said this meant 
he had now paid twice for two of these tickets, totalling 423.12 EUR.
In its responses to the complaint, Revolut said it couldnt prevent the merchant from 
deducting the amount he had authorised. And explained that it could raise a chargeback if 
he hadnt received the tickets. It sent him a chargeback form to complete and suggested he 
contact the airline to ask for a refund.
When we investigated the complaint, the investigator said that Mr Z hadnt been charged 
twice for the tickets. And that Revolut attempted a chargeback, but this was cancelled 
because the airline had already refunded the money.
Mr Z doesnt agree with the investigator and says that he has paid twice for two of the 
tickets. He says that he hasnt received a refund for the two tickets, the total of which is 
423.12 EUR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Mr Z paid twice for two sets of tickets. This is clear from his account summary. 
The evidence shows that when he first booked the tickets with the airline on 19 September 
2019, it placed a hold on the account for the funds. However, it didnt apply to debit the 
account until 29 September 2019. By this time, Mr Z had already been in touch with the 
airline on 27 September 2019 to book the tickets again. I can understand why Mr Z thought 
the original tickets hadnt been purchased, because there was no debit to his account.
I can see that the three new tickets were purchased on 27 September 2019, and the time 
these were recorded on Mr Zs account was about 5:40am. The entries on the statement 
show as Reverted. 
The live chat records Revolut sent to us show Mr Z first contacted it about paying for the 
tickets twice on 29 September 2019, at about 16:45. This is most likely because the airline 
debited his account for the original tickets 15 minutes earlier. He told Revolut he had 
purchased a second set of tickets from the airline because he believed the original purchase 
had been declined. Revolut explained the original ticket purchase hadnt been declined, and 
the airline had now taken payment for this transaction. Revolut suggested that Mr Z contact 
the airline direct to confirm it wouldnt claim the funds for the second booking. 
Revolut told Mr Z the second ticket purchase was still pending and that he could cancel this 
with the airline. It sent him a chargeback form to complete, but I cant see that Mr Z returned 
the completed form.
I have empathy with the position Mr Z found himself in as he had paid for tickets on the 
same flight twice. However, I dont consider this is the fault of Revolut. I accept that Mr Z 
wouldve been confused about the delay in the airline debiting his account for the first set of 
tickets, some 10 days after he booked them. The evidence Ive seen, however, shows Mr Z 
contacted the airline direct and booked a second set of tickets while the payment for the first 
set was still pending. I dont consider Revolut was wrong in allowing both sets of tickets to be 
claimed by the airline because Mr Z had used his account to buy them.
When Revolut was told on 29 September 2018, the advice it gave Mr Z at the time was 
reasonable. The payment for the second booking was now pending, and it said he should 
contact the airline to ask it to cancel any further request for payment.
Ive seen that the airline emailed Mr Z on 4 October 2019 and said it had no record of a 
payment being processed twice. It asked Mr Z to send his account statement so that it could 
investigate further. It subsequently refunded one of the tickets Mr Z purchased, leaving 
423.12 EUR outstanding.
It seems to me that the issue here is not that the airline took payments for the tickets twice, 
but that it took payments for two separate bookings made by Mr Z. Each of the bookings had 
separate reference numbers, so Im satisfied this is what happened.
Because the airline delayed in claiming the funds for the first set of tickets, I consider that it 
wouldve been reasonable for Mr Z to first check with the airline what had happened to this 
booking before he booked the tickets again. I would also have expected Mr Z to make an 
enquiry of Revolut before he purchased the second set of tickets. However, as Ive detailed 
above, he made the second booking and then queried the position with Revolut after the 
payments for the first booking had been debited to his account.
Im satisfied the advice Revolut gave Mr Z on the live chat on 29 September 2019 was 
reasonable. It said he should raise the matter with the airline and Revolut would consider a 
chargeback if the airline didnt resolve the matter for him.
Mr Z did contact the airline, and it refunded him one of the tickets. 
I have considered whether Revolut shouldve completed a chargeback and attempt to 
recover the 423.12 EUR. But, in this situation, where the funds have been taken for two 
separate bookings, and not simply duplicated payments, I dont consider a chargeback 
would succeed. However, it was reasonable for Revolut to refer Mr Z to the airline as it is 
more likely than not that Mr Z had paid for six seats on the plane, instead of the three he had intended to book. The fact that the airline refunded one of the tickets this way suggests that 
this was reasonable advice at the time. I cant say why the airline did not refund the other 
tickets. I am afraid this is a matter between Mr Z and the airline, because Mr Z authorised 
Revolut to pay for two sets of tickets. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and Revolut Ltd doesnt need to take 
any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman