DRN-3212500
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the 
premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr M purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great 
Lakes. The policy was purchased on 3 February 2020, to cover any trips of up to 31 days 
duration taken worldwide. The policy started on 3 February 2020 and ended on 2 February 
2021. 
Mrs and Mr M paid a total of £389.43 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
declared medical condition relating to Mr M. Theyd also purchased additional cover for 
winter sports. However, this premium is included within the total amount that Ive referred to 
above.
On 11 January 2021, Mrs and Mr M contacted Great Lakes to request a partial refund of 
their travel insurance premium because they said theyd been unable to travel during a large 
part of the time theyd held their policy due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They didnt cancel 
their policy. 
Great Lakes informed Mrs and Mr M that a refund couldnt be provided as their cooling off 
period had expired. And it said that, under the terms of their policy and because Mrs and Mr 
M had held their policy for over 300 days before making contact, no refund was due. But Mrs 
and Mr M werent happy with Great Lakes response to their refund request and complained 
to our service.
After Mrs and Mr M referred their complaint to us, it was considered by our investigator, who 
acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the 
details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this 
case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the 
risk it covered during that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 3 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they didnt think Great Lakes had made an error in how it had dealt with Mrs 
and Mr Ms refund query or issued a response that was unfair or unreasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs and Mr M didnt 
and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of the 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the premium 
will be available.
For Annual Multi-Trip Policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mrs and Mr M to receive a 
refund of the premiums they paid because: 
Cover under Mrs and Mr Ms policy commenced immediately once it had been 
purchased, which is confirmed by the insurance documentation they received. Im 
satisfied Mrs and Mr M were reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to 
their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance 
policies.
Mrs and Mr M didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of their policy until 11 
January 2021. They didnt request the cancellation of their policy at any time. And, 
even if they had done during their conversation on 11 January 2021, this would have 
been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say 
this because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have 
prevented Mrs and Mr M travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was 
outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and 
conditions of Mrs and Mr Ms contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs and Mr Ms contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy 
started on 3 February 2020.
Mrs and Mr M were insured from 3 February 2020 for travelling on any number of 
trips of up to 31 days duration which they may have taken until the policy expired. However, theyve said they didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the 
pandemic. But, because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an 
insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a policyholder has taken since 
their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mrs and Mr M for cancellation of any holidays 
which they had booked and were due to take from 3 February 2020 until 2 February 
2021. So, they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, 
Mr M falling ill with his declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mrs and Mr M making a successful cancellation 
claim for any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number 
of holidays, from 3 February 2020 until 2 February 2021. And its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk 
concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mrs and Mr Ms cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great 
Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
Mrs and Mr M paid for optional winter sports cover. But Great Lakes covered the risk 
of a claim and, therefore, the use of this additional optional cover throughout the 
duration of the policy for the reasons Ive already outlined.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mrs and Mr M contacted Great 
Lakes on 11 January 2020 to request a partial refund of their policy. But they didnt 
cancel their policy and it ran until its expiry on 2 February 2021, when a new policy 
was incepted. By the time Mrs and Mr M contacted Great lakes to request a refund, 
there was only 23 days left to run on the policy before it expired. The evidence 
available to me demonstrates that there was a material unevenness in the spread of 
risk throughout the term of this annual insurance policy. So, as our investigator 
explained, I dont think its fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a refund 
in the particular circumstances of this case. 
Given that Mrs and Mr M didnt cancel their policy, and because Great Lakes had 
been on risk for over 300 days before they contacted it to discuss their refund 
request, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for it to decline to refund Mrs and Mr 
M any of the premium they paid. So, Im not going to uphold this complaint or direct 
Great Lakes to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman