DRN-3481427
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way AXA PPP Healthcare Limited administered his personal
private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H held an Ideal cover level 2 personal private medical insurance policy for several years.
His policy renewed on 1 September of each year. The policy renewed in 2019 at a monthly
price of £559.21.
In November 2019, Mr H got in touch with AXA to complain about the price hed been
charged for cover and also for the price of cover quoted for his familys separate policy. He
said hed been contacted by a broker, whod quoted him for a switch policy to another
insurer, at a substantially cheaper price. This policy would include cover for Mr Hs medical
history.
AXA offered Mr H different cover options which might reduce the price he was charged, but it
couldnt match the other insurers quote. It acknowledged that Mr H wanted to go ahead with
the switch quickly. It explained that it couldnt speed up its complaint process, so it told Mr H
that if he was unhappy with the complaint outcome, it could cancel his policy and backdate
the cancellation to 1 December 2019.
In March 2020, Mr H remained unhappy with the price AXA could offer him and hed decided
to take up cover with the new insurer. So he got back in touch with AXA to ask it to cancel
the policy with effect from 1 December 2019. AXA subsequently refunded the premiums Mr
H had paid between 1 December 2019 and the date the policy was actually cancelled on 6
March 2020.
However, Mr H learned through his broker that because the cancellation of the policy had
been backdated to 1 December 2019, the records showed that he had a three month break
in cover. So his new insurer had instead placed him on a moratorium policy. Mr H was
unhappy with AXAs administration of the matter as he felt it hadnt done enough to let him
know that backdating the cancellation could lead to the new insurer taking such an action.
And he asked whether it could confirm to the new insurer that hed been covered until 6
March 2020.
AXA told Mr H that it couldnt provide the new insurer with the confirmation he wanted.
Thats because the policy had been cancelled with effect from 1 December 2019. It said it
could be possible for Mr H could reinstate his cover with it for the three month period, but
that Mr H would need to repay the premiums thatd previously been refunded to him. It also
told Mr H that it couldnt provide advice about what he should do and that it wasnt its place
to predict on what terms the new insurer would be prepared to offer cover.
Mr H remained unhappy with AXAs handling of the complaint and he asked us to look into
his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He thought AXA had given
Mr H enough information about the cancellation of the policy and he felt it had been justified
in refusing to tell the new insurer that Mr H had been covered up until 6 March 2020. He
noted that Mr H had had the option to reinstate his old policy and to repay the premiums hed
been refunded.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 January 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I didnt think AXA had done anything wrong which it needed to put right. I 
said:
First, Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint
and his submissions, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. In making my
decision though, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
I also need to make it clear that this decision will only focus on AXAs administration of Mr
Hs sole policy. I appreciate Mr Hs family also had a separate policy with AXA which was
cancelled and a new policy was taken out elsewhere at the same time as Mr Hs. But as it
doesnt appear a separate complaint has been brought to us about Mr Hs familys policy, I
cannot consider it here.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these formed the basis of the contract between Mr H
and AXA. Page 63 of the policy document sets out AXAs and its policyholders
responsibilities to one another. This includes the following:
In return for you paying the subscription, we will provide the cover set out in your plan.
We will pay for covered costs incurred during a period for which the subscription has been
paid.
I think then that the policy makes it clear that in order for a policyholder to be covered by
AXA, they must have paid their subscriptions during the relevant period. In this case, the
premiums Mr Hs paid after 1 December 2019 were refunded to him following the backdated
cancellation of the policy. Once the premiums had been refunded, AXA received no payment
for this period. So I think AXA was contractually entitled to conclude that as ultimately, it
refunded Mr Hs subscriptions for that period, he wasnt covered after 1 December 2019.
The calls
Theres no dispute that Mr H got in touch with AXA because he was unhappy that hed been
offered a substantially cheaper policy by a broker, which was underwritten by a different
insurer. Ive listened carefully to some of the calls which took place between Mr H and AXAs
call handlers in the period November 2019 to March 2020. Its apparent that AXA had
suggested amendments to Mr Hs policy which could reduce the price, but ultimately it
wasnt able to match what the other insurer could offer. It also acknowledged that it was
unlikely to be able to resolve Mr Hs first complaint about the policy price in time for him to
make a quick decision about whether or not to switch. So it said that if Mr H was unhappy
with its complaint outcome, it could look to cancel the policy and backdate the cancellation to
1 December 2019, paying Mr H a refund of the premiums hed paid after that point. In my
view, this was a reasonable suggestion from AXA.
Mr H wasnt satisfied by AXAs complaint response and he did go on, in February 2020, to
request that his policy be cancelled with effect from 1 December 2019. During one call,
AXAs call handler explained to Mr H that the premiums hed paid after 1 December 2019
would be refunded, less any claims that had been made during that time. Mr H
acknowledged that there might be a deduction for one claim. He had further discussions withcall handlers in the following weeks to confirm that he wanted the policy to be cancelled and
for that cancellation to be backdated.
I dont think any of AXAs call handlers gave Mr H unclear or misleading information. They
explained that the policy would be cancelled with effect from 1 December 2019 and that the
premiums would be refunded from that point on. There was no suggestion that the policy
wouldnt be considered to have ended from December 2019 onwards, or that AXA was
providing Mr H with effectively free cover between that date and 6 March 2020. Having
listened to the calls, I also dont think AXAs call handlers wouldve had any reason to
believe that Mr H didnt understand that by backdating the policy cancellation date, he was
agreeing to end his policy from 1 December 2019 onwards.
And I agree that AXAs call handlers werent able to offer Mr H advice about his options, all
they could do was to discuss means by which his policy with it could be amended to bring
down the price. AXA isnt party to the other insurers underwriting criteria or information and I
wouldnt reasonably expect it to suggest that Mr H check, either with his broker or with the
other insurer, whether his planned course of action might affect the cover the other insurer
was prepared to provide.
AXAs response to the complaint
I can understand why Mr H wished for AXA to tell the new insurer that hed been covered up
until 6 March 2020. But while I accept the actual date of cancellation was 6 March 2020, as
Ive explained, the cancellation was backdated, at Mr Hs request, to 1 December 2019 and
all of his premiums after that point were refunded. So I dont think it would be reasonable for
me to direct AXA to present the other insurer with factually inaccurate information.
However, AXA did indicate that it could potentially look to reinstate Mr Hs policy for the
relevant period, on repayment of the premiums itd refunded. This would allow Mr H to
demonstrate that he hadnt had any break in cover. I think this was a fair and reasonable
response from AXA. I can appreciate why Mr H might not have wanted to take up such an
option, but I think it was a reasonable offer from AXA in the circumstances.
Summary
As Ive set out above, I think the policy terms entitle AXA to conclude that Mr Hs cover
ended on 1 December 2019, following the refund of his premiums. Im satisfied AXAs call
handlers acted on Mr Hs wishes and gave him clear information. And I dont think it would
be reasonable for me to direct AXA to provide the new insurer with factually inaccurate
evidence. So I currently dont find that AXA has done anything wrong which it needs to put
right.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wanted me to consider.
On 24 February 2022, Mr H acknowledged hed received the provisional decision. He asked 
for an extension to the deadline Id given for further evidence or comments. The investigator 
extended the deadline for Mr Hs response to 29 March 2022. She explained that if we 
hadnt heard back from Mr H by that date, I would issue my decision. Mr H has provided no 
further evidence or information either by the further deadline given or since that date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party has provided any more evidence or comments for me to consider, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman