DRN-3085430
The complaint
Mrs H has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr H. She says Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997. They paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which did not attract interest. The policy covered Mr H, in case he 
was off work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mrs H and Halifax a provisional decision on 3 September 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats passed, neither side have been able to provide the original 
documents from the sale  which I think is understandable. But from what Ive seen of 
Halifaxs sales process from the time, it looks like they only recommended that customers 
thought about buying PPI  it wasnt a requirement. It looks like the PPIs cost wouldve been 
set out separately to the cost of the mortgage itself  it was not part and parcel of the 
lending. And in order to get a policy, it looks like Mr and Mrs H would need to have signed 
and submitted a separate application specifically for PPI. Ive not seen any wider problems 
with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that Mr or Mrs H were 
misled into having it here. So I think its most likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware 
they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time. 
Its not certain whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H tailored advice about buying PPI, or not. 
The requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did give such advice  so to be as fair to Mrs H 
and the late Mr H as possible, Ill assume it did. That would mean Halifax had to check the 
PPI was right for Mr H  and from what Ive seen of his situation at the time, I think it was. 
For example, it looks like Mr H was eligible for the cover and was not caught by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The PPI would have paid out on top of Mr Hs work benefits 
and offered him more comprehensive cover, such as for when his benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay, for instance. I understand Mr H also had life cover, but that was 
for different things than the PPI so Im afraid it wasnt relevant here. I also understand that 
Mr and Mrs Hs family may have been very happy to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And I dont think it would have been suitable if 
Halifax had advised Mr and Mrs H to potentially rely on other individuals to pay their 
mortgage. Its worth keeping in mind that if Mr and Mrs H had fallen behind on the mortgage, 
they couldve lost their home. So it seems that the PPI could have been useful for them in 
protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
It is possible that Halifax didnt give clear enough information to Mr and Mrs H about the PPI. 
The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have put them off the 
policy. But as I said above, Mr H was not affected by any of the key things the policy didnt 
cover, and it couldve really been useful in case things went wrong. And the policy could be 
cancelled at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was 
likely to have changed their minds about taking out the insurance.
Ive considered the rules about commission and profit share on PPI policies. But those rules 
are only relevant to agreements which began on or after 6 April 2007, or which began before 
then but were still running on 6 April 2008. Here, the relevant agreement began in 1997 and 
ended in 2002, so the rules about commission and profit share dont apply.
Lastly, I appreciate that Mrs H has found the experience of complaining with Halifax to be 
most dissatisfying, and I also appreciate her strength of feeling. However, Im afraid Im not 
able to consider those points, as I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  
such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of 
itself. So I dont have the jurisdiction to deal with those issues. Instead, Ive focused my 
findings on the sale of the PPI policy. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
1 October 2021. But neither side sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think this particular policy 
was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman