DRN-3665314
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc should refund the loss they incurred when 
Mr C fell victim to an investment scam.  
For ease of reference, Ive referred solely to Mr C in my decision. 
What happened
The events that unfolded are well known to the parties, so I do not intend to detail them here. 
Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision  our rules allow me to do so. 
In short, Mr C was the victim of a scam and his loss amounted to approximately £2,150 
across three payments; two made using his debit card and one online faster payment, all of 
which debited his HSBC current account. Mr C made these payments to whats now 
regarded as a fraudulent outfit, but at the time he believed was a genuine investment firm. 
Mr C realised he had been scammed once this fraudulent scheme (which Ill refer to as X) 
ceased all communication with him and his supposed investment account was suddenly 
empty. Mr C raised a complaint with HSBC, citing that it ought to have identified the 
payments towards X as suspicious and uncharacteristic. He argues that if the bank had 
intervened and questioned the purpose of the payments, the scam would have been 
unveiled and the payments cancelled. HSBC disagreed and didnt uphold the complaint. 
Upon bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators concluded that the 
payments should not necessarily have been detected as possible fraud by HSBC, 
considering the comparable spending Mr C typically carried out on his account. Our 
investigator also found that the bank acted reasonably in its attempts to recover the money. 
Mr C disagrees, maintaining the bank ought to have done more to protect him. Therefore, 
the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding it. While I dont doubt that Mr C has been the victim of a 
cruel scam, I am not requiring HSBC to refund his loss for the following reasons:
 Its common ground that Mr C authorised the payments. So, in accordance with the 
relevant regulations and law, hes considered liable for them in the first instance. 
 There are some circumstances, taking into account HSBCs obligations and the various 
principles of good practice, whereby I would expect the bank to intervene with payment 
instructions before they are completed. Including, account movements that should 
reasonably be determined as particularly unusual or uncharacteristic in comparison to a 
consumers normal account activity. Such scenarios may result in HSBC requesting 
further information before letting the payment(s) go. Or, go so far as to decline the 
instruction altogether. 
 Accordingly, Ive reviewed Mr Cs historical account statements alongside the other 
available evidence. None of which, persuades me that these payments ought to have 
appeared atypical or alarming to the extent that HSBC should have stepped in. For 
example, there are numerous items of spending on Mr Cs account that have a 
transaction value similar or greater than that of the ones in dispute. These three 
contended transactions were made over a span of more than six months, with the single 
highest amount being £1,000. But Mr C appears to have made multiple reoccurring 
payments to investment business in the same period, with some of the corresponding 
payments leaving his HSBC account being more than double that value. 
 I acknowledge Mr Cs argument that one of the key differences between his undisputed 
spending and these payments is that, unlike his prior investments/expenditure, he hadnt 
invested in this type of asset before, i.e. cryptocurrency. Be that as it may, Mr C was 
convinced to send money to a genuine currency exchange business before moving the 
money onwards to X. To that end, even if he hadnt purchased digital currency 
previously, he was nonetheless sending funds to a legitimate firm as part of an 
investment  the same as he had numerous times before. 
 I have to bear in mind that there is a balance to be struck between identifying 
transactions that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate 
payments. From the banks perspective, these were payments to a genuine firm (that 
was not identified as fraudulent or untoward) in keeping with Mr Cs habitual spending. 
Everything considered, I do not judge that these three transactions were irregular or 
concerning enough to say that HSBC made an error by not questioning them.
 Finally, its clear that the bank didnt have the requisite evidence to successfully recover 
Mr Cs funds. Amongst other things, we know that HSBC was not provided with dated 
evidence showing that he had an available balance within his trading account with X, and 
that he had attempted to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, that balance. Which is 
why, pursuant to the rules that HSBC should follow, I find it acted fairly in this sense. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman