DRN-3716083
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains Society of Lloyd's (SOL) has unfairly declined to renew a 
commercial insurance policy.
What happened
This complaint is brought by Mr P on behalf of C. References I make to C and SOL include 
the actions of respective representatives and agents, unless otherwise stated.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
C had a commercial combined insurance policy underwritten by SOL to provide cover 
for certain risks a business might experience. The policy had been in place since 
2012 when the company was in the control of its original management team. 
The original director retired from C in 2015 - but remained a director - and a new 
management team took over the running of C. For a number of years after that, the 
policy was renewed without issue.
In 2021, SOL undertook pre-renewal credit checks. It identified the original director 
had been connected to a previous limited company which had entered into liquidation 
and this hadnt been declared when the policy was taken out or renewed. SOL 
declined to renew cover again because of this.
C complained to SOL about its decision not to renew. SOL maintained its decision 
but agreed to provide C with longer to seek an alternative policy. 
C brought its concerns about the refusal to renew cover and about SOLs complaint 
handling to this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint, saying that if 
SOL had known the full facts in 2012 it wouldnt have provided cover at all. He 
thought it was fair for SOL to decide not to provide cover at renewal and there may 
have been other options available to it which would have had a more significant 
impact on C. 
C asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an Ombudsman at this Service is to focus on what I consider to be the 
crux of the complaint and that means Ill only comment on those things I consider 
relevant to the decision I need to make. I can confirm I have seen and considered all 
the submissions and evidence even where I dont reference them specifically. 
Because Cs policy is a non-consumer contract, the Insurance Act 2015 is the 
relevant misrepresentation legislation that applies to this complaint. This explains C 
has a duty to make fair presentation of the risk. If it doesnt, SOL will have certain 
remedies available to it such as avoiding the policy  treating it as though it never 
existed  or providing the insurance on different terms, for example.
In this case, SOL says that, when C took out the policy, it didnt disclose that its 
director had previously been involved in a business which went into liquidation and 
this was a specific question that was asked on the proposal form. SOL has explained 
that had it known the full facts, it wouldnt have offered cover in the first place.
So, SOL may have been able to take the action detailed in the Act - some of which 
would likely have had more significant consequences for C - but it hasnt pursued 
this. Instead, it has merely decided not to offer renewal of the policy.
Its for an insurer to decide what risks its willing to cover and what its not. This isnt 
something Id generally interfere with as its the legitimate exercise of its commercial 
judgement. And from what Ive seen, SOL is treating C the same as it would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.
C also puts forward a number of arguments about the circumstances of the failure of 
the previous company the director had been involved in and the wording of the 
question on the original proposal form. But as SOL hasnt sought to pursue remedies 
under the Act, and the previous policies remain in place unamended, this doesnt 
change my mind.
C argues that the broker the policy was arranged through failed to exercise its duty of 
care. But as the broker is Cs agent, I cant consider its actions under this complaint 
about SOL.
C also said SOL was slow to respond to its complaint as it didnt get in contact for 
four days and didnt seek to understand it fully. Its worth me explaining the Dispute 
Resolution rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority which explain the timescales 
businesses must adhere to in responding to complaints and this actually allows firms 
eight weeks to respond to complaints. 
Additionally, when doing so, firms must provide a written final response explaining a 
complainants right to bring their complaint to this Service if they remain unhappy with 
how the matter has been handled and the outcome reached  and thats what C has 
done here.
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied SOL has acted fairly in 
declining to provide renewal cover so I wont be asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman