DRN-3554759
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the charges Close Brothers Limited (Close Brothers) applied, when 
he handed back a car he acquired under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr R entered into a four-year conditional sale agreement to acquire a 
used car. In September 2021, Mr R applied for a voluntary termination. Close Brothers 
accepted this. The car was collected on 13 September 2021 by Close Brothers recovery 
agents  who Ill refer to as B.
B issued a report on the condition of Mr Rs car when it collected it. It said the following 
damage was outside of fair wear and tear and considered chargeable:
1. Rear panel  scratch/paint defect over 125mm - £114.80
2. Rear quarter panel/ rear wing  dent greater than 100mm - £114.80
3. Rear bumper  scratch/paint defect over 125mm - £97.30
4. Outside front wheel  damage more than 100mm - £40.95
5. Outside rear wheel  damage more than 100mm - £40.95
6. Nearside front wheel - damage more than 100mm - £40.95
Mr R complained to Close Brothers and provided it with pictures to show some of the 
damage identified was pre-existing. Close Brothers reviewed the pictures and removed the 
charges for the rear bumper and the outside front wheel. However, Mr R remained unhappy 
about the remaining charges which totalled £311.50. So he complained to Close Brothers.
In December 2021, Close Brothers looked into Mr Rs complaint. It said the charges had 
been applied correctly and Mr R hadnt provided any supporting information to suggest the 
outstanding damage was present at the point the car was supplied to him. 
Mr R disagreed and referred his complaint to this service. He said the outstanding charges 
were for damage which was present when the car was supplied to Mr R and he felt the 
charges had been unfairly applied to a car which was 11 years old.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Close Brothers had fairly 
applied the charges for the offside rear wheel alloy and the nearside front wheel alloy. 
However, she thought the rear panel damage was consistent with wear and tear for a car 
which was 11 years old and so asked Close Brothers to remove this charge. She also asked 
it to remove the charge for the rear quarter panel/ rear wing dent as she didnt think the 
picture B had provided clearly showed damage to this area. 
Mr R agreed with our investigator. However, Close Brothers disagreed. It said the pictures B 
had provided as part of its report showed that there was damage to the rear panel and rear 
quarter panel/ rear wing. It also said Bs inspector was a specialist and this should be taken 
into consideration.
As Close Brothers remains in disagreement, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
As Mr R agreed with our investigator that the charges for the outside rear wheel alloy and 
nearside front wheel alloy are fair, I havent considered these charges as part of this 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Close Brothers comments about Bs inspector being a specialist. Whilst I 
appreciate and accept this, when reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant 
industry guidance. Here, relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear 
published by the trade body, the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return 
of new cars at the end of the first leasing cycle. 
In this case, the car Mr R acquired was nine years old and had travelled around 106,000 
miles at the point it was supplied to Mr R. So whilst Ill consider the BVRLA guidance, Ill also 
think about whats fair and reasonable for a car of this age and mileage.
Rear panel
Bs condition report identified a scratch over 125mm on the rear panel. 
For scratches the body and paint of a car, the BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out. A maximum of four surface scratches on one 
panel is acceptable.
Ive looked at the picture provided by B to show the scratch to the rear panel. Im satisfied 
the scratch is more than 25mm and a ruler has been used to measure this. However, given 
the car was 11 years old at the time of inspection, I think its reasonable to assume that it 
may have a couple of scratches through wear and tear. Here, the picture provided by B 
shows a faint scratch and doesnt show clearly whether the primer or bare metal is showing. 
In light of this, I dont think its fair for Close Brothers to charge for the damage to the rear 
panel.
Rear quarter panel/ rear wing
Bs condition report identified that the rear quarter panel/rear wing had a dent that was more 
than 100mm. 
In relation to dents, the BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided there are no more than two per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Ive looked at the picture provided by B to show the dent to the rear quarter panel/rear wing. 
It appears there is a line in front of where the ruler has been placed. However, its unclear 
whether this is a dent or whether its the shadow of the ruler placed against the panel/wing. 
Given its unclear, I dont think the picture provided by B clearly shows that there is a dent on 
the rear quarter panel/rear wing. And so, it follows that I dont think its fair for Close Brothers 
to charge Mr R for this damage.
Overall, for the reasons mentioned above, I dont think its fair for Close Brothers to charge 
Mr R for the damage to the rear panel or the rear quarter panel/ rear wing. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers Limited should remove £229.60 from Mr Rs 
outstanding invoice for damage charges. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman