DRN-3114325
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain because XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited hasnt paid a 
cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S held a Gold branded annual travel insurance policy, provided by XL Catlin.
The policy was purchased in July 2019.
Mr and Mrs S were due to travel abroad on 24 March 2020. Their flights and accommodation
were booked separately.
On 16 March 2020, the government at Mr and Mrs Ss intended destination began to
introduce precautionary measures because of the Covid-19 pandemic. These included
restricting gatherings of more than 100 people at locations including tourist attractions,
museums, swimming pools and shopping centres.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all non-essential
travel overseas.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the
UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly
referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at
home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. Also, on the same day, 23 March
2020, Mr and Mrs Ss airline cancelled their upcoming flights.
Mr and Mrs S received a refund for their cancelled flights from their airline and they also
received a refund for car parking charges from the provider directly. But the hotel they were
due to stay at abroad refused to reimburse the money theyd paid, so they made a claim for
these costs under their policy with XL Catlin.
XL Catlin said Mr and Mrs Ss claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their
policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained to XL Catlin before bringing the matter to the
attention of our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said, although Mr and Mrs Ss policy
didnt provide cover for cancelling a holiday due to the FCDO advising against travel, the
policy also wouldnt have provided any cover if Mr and Mrs S had gone ahead and travelled
against FCDO advice. Our investigator said she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for Mr
and Mrs S to be left in such a position, so she asked XL Catlin to reconsider their claim for
their hotel costs.
XL Catlin didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was 
referred to me.
I made my provisional decision about Mr and Mrs Ss complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ss complaint.
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs S found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, when the insurance was
purchased in July 2019, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have
been foreseen by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. XL Catlins
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs S are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ss policy provides for XL Catlin to pay for a policyholders unused costs if a
holiday is cancelled because of one of a list of specific insured events. The Cancellation and
Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ss policy, at page 7, says XL Catlin will pay for certain
costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip; or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any impending
redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked; or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary, flooding
or fire;
5. the policy requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at
your home; or
6. your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with,
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
7. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency service, the nursing profession or a government employee being
ordered to return to duty.
Mr and Mrs Ss trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means their claim
isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy, but I dont
think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves 
in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Ss policy wouldnt have providedcover if theyd gone ahead and travelled against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and
Mrs S in an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an
insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions
relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO
advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of a
strict application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask XL Catlin to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Ss policy also
says:
What you are NOT covered for
7. claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Ss claim. A
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs
Ss airlines decision to cancel their flights.
But Mr and Mrs Ss trip was cancelled on 23 March 2020  which was the same date the UK
restrictions on movement were announced, and these restrictions remained in force until
after Mr and Mrs S would have been due to return to the UK.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss holiday not covered as
listed, insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S and I understand their hotel costs are a lot of money for
them because of the circumstances they were in. I also understand they received a refund
from their airline and their car parking provider  but this doesnt mean XL Catlin acted
unfairly or unreasonably by declining their claim.
Overall, I dont currently intend to recommend that XL Catlin should do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
XL Catlin said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs S replied 
to my provisional decision and said their policy had been mis-sold to them. Mr and Mrs S 
also said the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their policy covers cancellation due to 
quarantine and they were in quarantine alongside the entire population of the UK due to the 
spread of Covid-19 because of restrictions imposed by the UK Government and the FCDO 
to protect UK citizens.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
XL Catlin provides the benefits under Mr and Mrs Ss insurance policy  but it didnt sell the 
policy to Mr and Mrs S. The policy was sold by a different financial business, which is a 
separate legal entity to XL Catlin, and which is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
in its own right. If Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the sale of their policy, theyd need to 
direct their complaint to the business who sold them the policy in the first instance. I understand Mr and Mrs Ss policy covers the cancellation of a trip due to quarantine. But, 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant fairly say this was the reason for the cancellation of 
their trip. I think the primary reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Ss trip were because 
of the FCDO announcement on 17 March 2020 and the government announcement on 23 
March 2020, as a result of which their airline cancelled their flights. 
Im not suggesting Mr and Mrs S should have gone ahead and travelled regardless (even if it 
had been possible for them to reach their intended destination). But, claims due to changes 
in FCDO advice are not an insured event under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of 
their policy. And, in any event, claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government 
of any country are specifically excluded under their policy. 
So, I wont be changing my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman