DRN-4150761
The complaint
Mr U complains as executor of Mr Ss estate about the service provided by IG Markets 
Limited regarding Mr Ss ISA and share dealing accounts. 
What happened
At the end of July 2022 Mr U got in touch with IG about the accounts his father, who Ill call 
Mr S, held with them. IG let him know about their bereavement process and refused to 
provide any information  including the value of the accounts  until Mr U had the grant of 
probate. This meant Mr U had to estimate the value of the accounts in order to apply for 
probate.  
Once Mr U had probate in September 2022, he provided this to IG, who sold the assets in 
the share dealing account on 21 September 2022 and later transferred the cash to Mr U. 
However, for the ISA, Mr U asked for the assets to be transferred directly to his mother, Mrs 
S. In a phone call on 5 October 2022 Mr U was told this would be possible and arranged for 
her to open an ISA with IG. However, it later became clear that this was incorrect and the 
only person who could receive the proceeds of the ISA was Mr U as executor. Mr U made a 
complaint about the ISA, and about the requirements set out by IG as part of their 
bereavement process. 
IG said that they hadnt done anything wrong regarding their bereavement process but 
admitted Mr U was given incorrect information about the ISA and offered £100 
compensation. Mr U was unhappy with this and so brought the complaint to our service. He 
said that IG had been unhelpful compared with other financial firms he was dealing with as 
executor, and felt the compensation wasnt enough to make up for the time hed spent. He 
also felt IG ought to have had a clear procedure set out in writing on their website for 
bereavements. 
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found that the £100 was a fair 
offer. Mr U indicated that he wanted to provide comments in reply to the investigators 
opinion, but didnt provide anything further. As he didnt accept the outcome given by the 
investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. I can see that under the terms and conditions for the ISA, IG dont allow transfers of 
assets held in an ISA between people on death. Im satisfied its reasonable for IG to decide 
which types of transfer they want to offer to their customers  they have the discretion to set 
their own processes in this way. 
However, its clear IG ought to have given Mr U correct information about this in the call on 5 
October 2022. When considering an error such as this my objective is to put the complainant 
in the position theyd now be in, but for the error. In this case, the error was the wrong 
information in the call. If that error hadnt been made, then Mr U would not have thought he 
could arrange to transfer the ISA. So, it follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to say IG has to 
facilitate the transfer simply because they said they could during that call. 
That being said, by providing wrong information, they raised his expectations and caused 
unnecessary confusion. Im satisfied that a fair way to put this right is a payment for the 
inconvenience and confusion caused by giving Mr U the incorrect information  this delayed 
his administration of Mr Ss estate. 
Mr U let us know that Mrs S went to the trouble of opening an ISA with IG  and Mr U helped 
with this. Under this complaint, I can only consider the inconvenience to Mr U in his capacity 
as executor  not that caused to the beneficiaries of Mr Ss estate. So, although I appreciate 
she was impacted, I cant consider Mrs Ss inconvenience in this decision.
I understand Mr U wanted to have the proceeds of the ISA transferred to Mrs S in order to 
utilise her additional permitted subscription ISA allowance. My understanding is that she 
should still be able to use her additional permitted subscription allowance. She should be 
able to add the money as cash to an ISA in her own name, with a provider that accepts this 
type of subscription, which would allow her to subscribe more than the normal yearly amount 
to her ISA. Shell need to speak to her ISA provider about how to go about doing this in the 
first instance. 
Turning to the refusal by IG to release the information about the value of Mr Ss accounts to 
Mr U prior to probate being provided. This is unusual in my experience, as most firms will 
release the value of an account in order to allow for probate to be applied for. We have very 
little evidence in this case  IG have not replied to our requests for further information. So, 
Ive considered the impact caused by IG not providing the values of the accounts. Mr U told 
us he was able to successfully estimate the value of Mr Ss accounts, so was able to apply 
for probate regardless. So, it seems to have had little impact on his overall ability to apply for 
probate  though I do appreciate the refusal to provide information would have been 
frustrating. 
Mr U explained that he feels IG ought to have a clear, written bereavement process  he 
found it frustrating that he couldnt find out information online and had to call. He also 
couldnt verify the information about the process that he was given on the phone. Though I 
can completely appreciate that this would have made things smoother here for Mr U, again 
this is something that I consider to be at IGs discretion.  
Overall, I can see that IG could have made the whole process easier for Mr U and I think its 
fair that they compensate him for this. Bearing in mind that Im unable to account for the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs S, I dont think the amount of their offer is unreasonable. So, I 
find that the offer of £100 is fair and reasonable for the inconvenience caused here.
My final decision
IG Markets Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that IG Markets Limited should 
pay £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U on behalf of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 31 October 2023. 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman