DRN-3231265
The complaint
Mr D complains that a used car supplied by Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) under a hire 
purchase agreement (HPA) is of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr D got the car in January 2021. He had problems a month or so later and contacted the 
supplying dealer after an engine management light (EML) illuminated. The dealer suggested 
Mr D should take the car to a local garage to see if the problem could be identified. Mr D 
took the car to a third party garage (TPG) in March and he was told the diesel particulate 
filter (DPF), a differential pressure sensor and oil filters needed servicing. The dealer 
refunded the cost of the check but didnt agree to pay for repairs and Mr D complained to 
BMF. 
Mr D had problems with the media unit as well around the same time and he decided to 
have the car checked by a main dealer for the brand. A vehicle health check (VHC) was 
carried out in early April 2021 and found brake pads and discs were worn, a tyre needed 
replacing and coins had been inserted into the media unit so the head unit needed replacing. 
Mr D paid for the TPG for repairs that cost over £400 and he paid another third party £120 to 
fix the media unit. 
BMF didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. It said the dealer had already refunded the cost of 
repairs, aside from the media unit - and theres no evidence this was faulty at the point of 
supply. BMF thought the repairs the dealer paid for were likely wear and tear related, in any 
event. And this means theyd be Mr Ds responsibility under the HPA - taking into account 
the cars age and mileage when it was supplied and the use he had of the vehicle. 
BMF didnt think it should have to do anything else and Mr D referred the matter to our 
service. He acknowledged the dealer had provided a refund but felt it was unfair he had to 
pay for repairs to the media unit. He lost faith in the car and wanted to reject it initially but 
hes since settled the finance and sold the vehicle.  
Our investigator was satisfied (from the TPGs findings and the VHC) that Mr D had a 
number of problems with the car in March and April 2021 after around 2,000 miles of use. He 
thought issues found - with the DPF, differential sensor, brake pads and discs, oil filters and 
one tyre - were probably wear and tear related. He wasnt persuaded it would be fair to hold 
BMF responsible for those  given the cars age and mileage and distance covered after 
supply. And he was satisfied the dealer had already refunded the relevant cost anyway. 
The investigator thought it was likely however that the media unit had something wrong with 
it when the car was supplied. He noted Mr Ds recollection is the problem started less than a 
month after supply but this was first documented at the VHC in April 2021. He acknowledged 
the media unit may have worked for a short time after supply. But, he was satisfied (from a 
video Mr D provided) that one of the coins found inside hasnt been in circulation for some 
time. He thought the most likely explanation for this is the coins were inserted before Mr D 
got the car. And he wasnt persuaded that BMF had done enough to show the media unit 
wasnt faulty at the outset. 
The investigator was satisfied that Mr D paid £120 for repairs to the media unit in May 2021 
and he found it was fair for BMF to refund this. He thought the presence of the faulty media 
unit probably impaired Mr Ds use of the car (albeit this didnt prevent him from driving it). 
And he recommended BMF should refund 10% of monthly payments made between the 
VHC on 8 April 2021 and repairs on 4 May 2021, to reflect that.  
Mr D said the repairs undertaken for £120 didnt work and it actually cost him about £1,200 
to fix the media unit. The investigator asked for more evidence that this cost was incurred 
but Mr D was unable to provide that. The investigator didnt think he couldnt reasonably ask 
BMF to pay more for repairs without documentary evidence. He didnt change his original 
view and Mr D accepted those recommendations.  
BMF agreed to the recommended refund of monthly payments for impaired use but not for 
repairs to the media unit. BMF said its reasonable to assume this unit would not have 
worked at the outset - if coins were pushed in by a previous owner. But Mr D said he started 
experiencing problems with the unit in March 2021  which suggests it was working up to 
that point and it wasnt faulty at the point of supply. BMF asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D brings his complaint to our service because he acquired this car under a HPA. And Im 
satisfied that BMF was required under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) to ensure 
(amongst other things) that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual circumstances. In 
the case of a used car, I think its reasonable to take the age, cost and mileage into account. 
This car was seven years old, cost £10,700 and had 54,000 miles on the clock when it was 
supplied. As such, I think a reasonable person would accept some parts would be worn and 
likely need to be repaired or replaced sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price 
paid for a used car compared to the price of a brand new vehicle. 
Mr D seems to have been refunded for the cost of repairs to the DPF and other parts - aside 
from the media unit. He has accepted the investigators recommended outcome. And BMF 
has agreed to provide the refund for impaired use that the investigator recommended. So, 
Im satisfied the only outstanding issue for me to determine is whether BMF should refund 
the cost of repairs to the media unit. 
The CRA says (broadly speaking) any fault which appears within six months of supply is 
deemed to have been present at the point of supply - unless theres evidence to the 
contrary. I appreciate BMF says the unit worked for a few months so it couldnt have been 
faulty at the outset. But, I don think its that straightforward and Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied  based on the VHC  that there was a problem with the media unit a few 
months after supply which seems to have been caused by several coins being inserted into 
the unit itself. I cant be certain when or how this took place. And, where evidence is unclear 
like this, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities - what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr D told us he didnt put these coins in - and he hasnt had anyone in the car (such as a 
small child) who might have done so. I have no reason to disbelieve Mr D. And, given at 
least one of the coins found in the unit hasnt been in circulation for some time, I think its more likely than not this was already in there when Mr D got the car. 
I cant be sure why the unit seems to have been able to operate for a while after supply and 
then stopped working. Its possible the coins were stuck and dislodged after Mr D got the car 
- or they simply worked their way further in over time. Ultimately, Im satisfied Mr D had a 
reasonable expectation that this media unit would work properly for much longer than it did. I 
think it stopped working due to the presence of foreign objects that were probably there 
when he got the car and it was of unsatisfactory quality at the outset.   
Putting things right
Under the CRA a supplier would generally have the opportunity to fix something like this, in 
this situation. But, Mr D has already paid for repairs here and sold the car. I dont think its 
fair that Mr D should be out of pocket as a result of being supplied with a car that had faults 
present. Ive seen an invoice he supplied for repairs to the media unit costing £120. And I 
find it fair that BMF should refund this amount plus interest. 
BMF has accepted the investigators recommendation in respect of the refund for impaired 
use. And Mr E has confirmed he accepts the investigators recommended outcome. I think 
that seems fair and reasonable overall and I cant reasonably require BMF to do more.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Blue Motor 
Finance Limited to:-
1. refund £120 for repairs to the media unit plus 10% of finance payments made 
between 8 April and 4 May 2021; and
2. pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman