DRN-2843108
The complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)wont let him 
make modifications to  a car he acquired through his Hire Purchase Agreement. He would 
like to be able to make the modifications or to be allowed to end his agreement
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the view reached by our investigator for the following reasons:-
Mr W is in a difficult position, since taking out his agreement his job has changed, 
and he now needs to have blue lights and a siren fitted to his car. He feels there is no 
risk to VWFS as he would be liable for any damage above fair wear and tear. 
But the agreement Mr W signed makes it clear(clause 4.8) that  he cant make any 
additions or alterations to the car without VWFSs agreement and  VWFS hasnt 
agreed to the alterations. The  car remains VWFSs property under a Hire Purchase 
Agreement so thats a decision for it to make. I think its concerns that the car would 
have a higher chance of being damaged or involved in an accident if Mr W makes the 
modifications are reasonable.
VWFS has also referred to clause 4.3 which refers to not using its vehicles for 
carrying passengers for hire or reward. Mr W doesnt agree that this clause relates to 
employment use. I think it might do but even if not clause 4.8 still applies.
Mr W asked either for modifications to be allowed or to be able to end his agreement 
in his complaint to us. I am not sure if Mr W asked VWFS to end his agreement early 
or not. Mr W does have that right, but he would need to get quotes from VWFS on 
the options that are available to him and for him to understand the financial 
implications of doing so.
I dont feel I can reasonably ask VWFS to let Mr W end his agreement early with no 
financial penalty as I dont think VWFSs decision not to allow the modifications Mr W 
wants to make is unreasonable.  I am sympathetic to Mr Ws changed employment 
situation , such situations do occur, but  I dont think its reasonable for businesses to 
automatically allow agreements to end early with no financial penalty as a result
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman