DRN-2268046
The complaint
Mrs N complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under her motor 
insurance policy.
Mrs N is being represented in this complaint, but for ease of reference Ill refer to her directly.
All references to AXA include its appointed agents.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs Ns handbag was stolen from her car whilst she was visiting family. 
The handbag contained some personal effects and the spare key for the car. The car (which 
has a keyless entry system) was then driven back to her home address. 
Mrs N attempted to report the matter to the police and also notified her card and phone 
providers of her loss. In the early hours of the following morning, the car was stolen from  
Mrs Ns driveway.
Mrs N called AXA to register a claim. AXA investigated the circumstances and declined the 
claim. It said that as Mrs N had left her keys in the car and didnt take steps to safeguard the 
car after the keys were stolen, the claim wasnt covered under the terms of her policy.
Mrs N complained to AXA. She said there was force used to gain entry to the car, so the 
theft of her handbag wasnt dependant on the presence of the spare key. She also didnt 
agree there was a lack of reasonable care when the car was parked on her driveway, as it 
was left unattended for a short time. She also asked AXA why it hadnt dealt with each event 
as a separate claim.
AXA responded to Mrs N and maintained its position to decline the claim. It said it had 
contacted the manufacturer of the car, who confirmed that leaving the spare key in it meant it 
would be classed as unlocked. AXA agreed that it could have looked at each claim 
separately, but the outcome would have remained the same as neither event was covered 
under the policy.
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mrs N referred the complaint to our service. In addition to the 
points set out above, she said AXA had relied on the wrong exclusion to decline her claim for 
the stolen handbag. She disputed that leaving the spare key in the car would mean it was 
unlocked. Mrs N added that when the car was stolen, the keys werent in it, so the exclusion 
for this event didnt apply.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
was persuaded the thieves could gain access to the car as it was unlocked when the spare 
key was inside. And she said it could be assumed the same thieves who stole her handbag 
later returned to steal her car. She concluded that as Mrs N hadnt taken any further 
measures to safeguard the vehicle, it was reasonable for AXA to decline the claims.
Mrs N disagreed with our investigator. She said she wanted to see further evidence from the 
manufacturer that the car would be unlocked if the spare key was left inside (having been 
locked with a separate key). She maintained her position that AXAs exclusion didnt apply to 
the part of the policy being claimed on, and that there was forced used to gain entry to the 
car. 
Mrs N also said she hadnt acted unreasonably in not taking further measures to safeguard 
the vehicle. And she felt it wasnt reasonable for our investigator to assume the same thieves 
were responsible for both events.
Mrs N requested an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered each event separately to decide whether AXA has acted fairly and 
reasonable in declining Mrs Ns claim.
Ive first considered the event where Mrs Ns handbag was stolen. Ive considered the policy 
terms and what they say about securing the car. Under the General conditions applicable to 
all parts of this policy it states:
You must do all you can to protect your car...If you do not do this your right to claim under 
your policy may be affected.
You must:
ensure the car is locked,and all keys and keyless entry system devices are 
removed when the car is left unattended
when leaving your car take personal belongings with you, lock them in your boot 
or glove compartment. Do not leave them in open view in your car
I dont think these terms are unusual for a motor insurance policy. Mrs Ns spare key was left 
in the car. And based on Mrs Ns testimony it appears the handbag was behind the off-side 
front door. So I cant say that either of the above terms of the policy were met. 
Theres some conflicting information with regard to how the thieves gained access to the car 
to steal the handbag. Earlier testimony from Mrs Ns conversation with AXA suggests there 
wasnt a forced entry. In addition, the manufacturers comments state that leaving the spare 
key inside the car, even when locked by another key, would mean the vehicle was unlocked. 
But Mrs N now says there are signs of forced entry, so the thieves wouldnt have known the 
spare key was in the handbag.
Having considered everything, there are two scenarios that on balance most likely 
happened here. Either Mrs Ns car was unlocked, and the handbag was taken, or it was 
visible to the thieves and they forced entry to the vehicle to take it. But in any event, I dont 
think it matters how the event happened, whether through forced entry or not, as the policy 
terms Ive set out above werent met. So I find AXAs decision to decline this part of the claim 
was fair and reasonable. 
Ive next considered the theft of the car. AXA has relied on a term found in the Claims 
Conditions section of the policy. The term states:Ifloss, theft, or damage happens toyour caryou must immediately:
do whatever you can to protect the car and its accessories
take all reasonable steps to recover the missing property and to prevent a further 
incident
AXA has said Mrs N failed to take reasonable care. Our Services approach to this is that if 
the insured didnt consider that there was a risk involved in what they have done, then it is 
arguable that they werent acting recklessly. In other words, Mrs N must have recognised 
there was a risk and taken no steps to avert it in order to be considered to not have taken 
reasonable care.
Ive carefully considered this point and the testimony provided by Mrs N. Having done so, I 
think it is most likely Mrs N foresaw a risk here in the way she acted following the theft of her 
handbag. She took steps to cancel her bank cards and mobile phone and speak to the 
police. Mrs N would also have been aware that the spare key to her vehicle was no longer in 
her possession as she said shed contacted a garage to arrange security recoding the next 
day. I think she was also aware that there was personal information in her handbag. Based 
on this, Im satisfied there was a recognised risk to her car here.
Our investigator set out some measures which could be considered reasonable care to 
mitigate this risk. Mrs N has disputed these measures. But I dont think the list of measures 
our investigator provided is exhaustive. The question I need to answer here is what steps did 
Mrs N take to avert the risk of someone taking her car, as she knew her keys had been 
stolen along with the details of her home address. And the evidence Ive seen shows no 
additional steps were taken to safeguard the car following the theft of her handbag. So I 
think its reasonable for AXA to rely on this policy term to decline the claim.
Ive seen Mrs Ns point that it was unreasonable to assume that the same thieves were 
responsible for both events. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think this has any 
bearing on AXAs decision to decline the claim, so Im not going to consider this further here.
AXA have offered Mrs N £50 for its handling of the complaint. I find this is a fair and 
reasonable offer in the circumstances.  
I do appreciate my decision will be very disappointing for Mrs N, but based on everything Ive 
seen, I find AXAs decision to decline Mrs Ns claim was reasonable and I wont require it to 
do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman