DRN-3830922
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the decision made by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) about liability 
following a claim she made on a car insurance policy. Shes also unhappy about 
communication from UKI about that decision and the amount recorded as having been paid 
to settle the claim.
What happened
Mrs A insured a car with UKI. A named driver on the policy was involved in a collision 
involving a third party and so a claim for the damage was made. 
After assessing the information available, UKI concluded the named driver was at fault for 
the collision. It recorded a fault claim, and agreed to cover the third party insurers claim 
costs.
Mrs A complained to UKI. She said the third party had been at fault for the accident. She 
was also unhappy that the decision to record a fault claim and accept liability hadnt been 
communicated to her. She also said that certain costs which had been recorded on the claim 
shouldnt have been  specifically further repairs and associated costs which were needed 
after additional damage was caused by UKIs authorised repairers. She said the increased 
costs had affected her premium when she took out a policy with another insurer.
When UKI rejected her complaint, Mrs A referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
UKI had made a reasonable decision when it recorded the fault claim, suitably 
communicated that to her and it had followed the correct guidance when it recorded the 
costs related to the claim.
Mrs A didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs As policy say We are entitled to take over and carry out 
the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or in the name of any other 
person covered by this policy; take proceedings in your name, or in the name of any other 
person covered by this policy, to get back any money we have paid under this policy. This 
means if UKI fairly concluded the named driver was at fault for the collision, it could accept 
liability for the third partys claim and pay those costs, and record those costs as part of the 
claim made on Mrs As policy. Mrs A doesnt have to agree to that liability decision. 
However, the decision to accept liability does need to be reasonable in light of the 
circumstances of the claim and the evidence available.
This means that its not for me to decide who was at fault for the collision. What I need to do 
is say whether UKIs decision to hold the named driver at fault (and therefore record a fault 
claim) was reasonable based on the evidence it had available. 
The circumstances of the claim were that the named driver was exiting side road onto a 
main road from a junction and collided with the third party which was established on that 
main road. Mrs As position was that the third party should be held at fault because theyd 
been signalling to turn into the junction, but hadnt done so. As the named driver believed the 
third party was going to turn, theyd exited the junction. The third party denied theyd 
indicated to turn.
Mrs A provided details to UKI of a witness who she said would be able to confirm the third 
party had been indicating to turn. Ive seen evidence that UKI sent two letters to the witness 
but no response was received. Mrs A has said that the witness told her they didnt receive 
anything from UKI. What isnt clear is why, despite apparently knowing UKI were seeking to 
get their account, the witness didnt contact UKI. In any case, Im satisfied UKI made 
reasonable attempts to contact the witness. In light of the lack of contact UKI fairly 
concluded there was no evidence to corroborate the suggestion that the third party was 
indicating to turn.  
UKI concluded there was insufficient evidence to say the third party had been indicating to 
turn, as the only account they had of this was from the named driver. As the named driver 
had collided with the third party who was established on the main road, UKI concluded it had 
no option but to accept liability in full. Im satisfied this was a reasonable conclusion for it to 
make.
Mrs A said the decision to accept liability and record the claim as fault wasnt communicated 
to her by UKI. Ive been able to listen to a phone call between UKI and Mrs A in which she 
was told that UKI was going to have to accept fault because it wasnt possible to prove the 
third party had been indicating prior to the collision. It was explained that the claim was 
initially considered to be split liability but after concluding its investigations, UKI had to 
accept liability and record this as a fault claim. She was told as a result the no claims bonus 
would be affected. Im satisfied from this call that Mrs A was informed of the liability decision, 
the reasons for this and the impact of that decision.
Mrs As also unhappy with the total amount recorded by UKI on databases as having been 
paid in settlement of the claim. She particularly notes that costs paid by UKI to carry out 
additional repairs (and for additional hire car costs at the same time) were recorded after 
damage was caused by the garage appointed by UKI to carry out repairs. She says those 
costs shouldnt be recorded as part of the claim settlement, and shes been told by her new 
insurer the premium shes been charged is based in part on the amount recorded.
Guidance issued to insurers by the Motor Insurance Bureau (MIB) says that insurers should 
record all of the costs incurred on a claim. This includes repair costs, hire costs and claim 
handling costs. 
I understand Mrs A thinks its unfair for additional costs, incurred by UKI because the 
repairers caused additional damage which needed to be repaired, to be included in the total 
costs. I cant agree. An insurers liability is to carry out a lasting and effective repair to 
resolve a claim. It follows, I think, that all the costs it incurs in doing so should be included in 
the claim costs it records  if its been liable for those costs as a result of a claim being 
made, it should record this. 
Im satisfied UKI acted reasonably and in line with the appropriate guidance in recording the 
full claim value.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. Im satisfied U K Insurance Limited acted reasonably in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman