DRN-3237105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc abused its position when it sanctioned an 
interest only mortgage that was not in their best interests, did not serve the purpose intended 
and resulted in a loss financially. They have also raised concerns about other errors since 
the mortgage was agreed.
 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were advised by a broker to take out an interest only mortgage with Santander 
in June 2006. The mortgage was for £139,249 (including a £499 product fee) over a term of 
5 years. 
The mortgage account began to accrue arrears from May 2008 and Santander pursued legal 
action against Mr and Mrs S. In June 2009, a court issued a judgement for a suspended 
possession order on the basis the arrears were repaid by an agreed monthly instalment.
In 2011, Mr and Mrs S wrote to Santander in response to a letter they had received 
informing them the term of the mortgage was due to expire. They explained they planned to 
sell the property and had been trying for some time without success. Santander agreed to 
extend the mortgage by 9 years and 11 months which Mr and Mrs S accepted. 
Mr and Mrs S raised a complaint with Santander in 2020. They said Santander should never 
have sanctioned the interest only mortgage as it was not in their best interests, did not serve 
the purpose intended and resulted in a loss financially. They felt the person at Santander 
who approved the mortgage had breached the rules and regulations and the banks duty of 
care. They explained they had originally applied for a loan of £25,000 which had been turned 
down but had then been able to secure a mortgage for a larger amount of borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs S also complained about the court action Santander took in 2009, regardless of 
it being aware of its actions when providing the mortgage in 2006. They also complain that 
Santander had breached confidentiality in 2020, when it had shared information to a third 
party investigating their complaint against the broker. They said Santander shared this 
information with the intent of preventing their complaint against the broker. 
Santander thought our service didnt have jurisdiction to consider the complaint as it had 
been raised too late. An Ombudsman looked at the complaint and issued a decision on 
jurisdiction on 30 November 2021. They summarised the complaint as having three parts: 
1. Santander agreeing to provide the mortgage in 2006. 
2. Santander taking court action in 2009, knowing that its actions in 2006 were wrong.
3. Santander releasing information to a third party, acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs S, in 
2020, when it should not have. 
The Ombudsman explained that they didnt think our service could consider complaints 
points 1 and 2, as under the rules which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates 
(specifically DISP 2.8.2 which deals with whether a complaint has been referred in time), 
they had been raised too late. However, the Ombudsman did think complaint point 3 had 
been raised in time, and decided it was something our service could consider. 
Our Investigator considered the merits of complaint point 3 and didnt think Santander had 
acted unreasonably by providing the third party with information. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S disagree with the previous Ombudsmans decision on the 
jurisdiction of this complaint and what our service has powers to investigate. To be clear, Ive 
reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision and Ive seen nothing which makes me 
disagree with the outcome which they reached. 
With this in mind, my decision will only address Mr and Mrs Ss complaint point about 
Santander releasing information to a third party (which were acting on behalf of 
Mr and Mrs S) when it should not have.
Mr and Mrs S have kindly provided a significant amount of correspondence to support their 
complaint. Id like to be clear that my decision wont address every point or comment made 
by either Mr and Mrs S or Santander. I mean no discourtesy by this, and I would like to 
reassure both parties that Ive carefully considered all the evidence provided. But my 
decision will only address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S say a third party, which was dealing with their complaint about their mortgage 
being mis-sold, was provided with information by Santander in 2020  and that this was a 
breach of confidentiality.
Santander says it has no records of a third party, acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs S, 
requesting information and being provided with it. Ive reviewed copies of the contact notes 
Santander provided for Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage account and Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest Santander received a request for information by a third party, or that any information 
was sent. 
Mr and Mrs S have also been asked to provide details of the third party that was acting on 
their behalf, and to provide any evidence they have that shows Santander sent information 
to this third party. Mr and Mrs S havent provided any evidence for this. Therefore, based on 
the evidence available, there is nothing to suggest that Santander released information to a 
third party relating to Mr and Mrs S and their mortgage.
In any event, Mr and Mrs S say they instructed this third party to act on their behalf when 
pursuing a complaint about their mortgage being mis-sold by the broker. I would generally 
expect Santander to cooperate with any investigation and if necessary, provide information 
when requested to the customer raising the complaint, or to the customers third party 
representative. Therefore, I dont think it would necessarily be unreasonable for Santander to 
provide information to a third party that a customer had given authority to have represent 
them  if the authority was evidenced.  My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman