DRN-4224816
The complaint
Mr K complains that Oplo PL Ltd trading as Oplo lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr K applied for a loan. Oplo approved the loan application and gave Mr K a 
loan for £2000 over a term of 24 months with repayments of £120.16 per month.
In November 2021 Mr K applied or a second loan. Oplo approved the application and gave 
Mr K a loan for £5,600 over a term of 36 months with repayments of £232.48 per month.
Mr K complained that Oplo had lent to him irresponsibly.
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr K.
Mr K remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that the information Oplo obtained from the 
checks shouldve prompted it to find out more before deciding to lend. The investigator said 
that Mr Ks bank statements from the months prior to the loans showed that the loans were 
unaffordable.
Oplo didnt agree. It said that the information it had obtained from the checks indicated that 
the loans were affordable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ks complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Oplo needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
ensure that Mr K could sustainably repay what was being lent to him.
Theres no set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to take 
into account things like the amount lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment 
and the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Loan 1
Ive looked at the checks that Oplo carried out to decide whether these were reasonable and 
proportionate.
Mr K provided details of his income and expenditure in his application. Oplo verified this 
using an industry tool. Oplo carried out a credit search. This showed that Mr K had 17 active 
credit accounts, with total unsecured debt of around £38,535. There were missed payments 
and payment arrangements on some of the active accounts within the last 24 months. There 
were no defaults or CCJs.
Oplo carried out an affordability assessment and calculated that Mr K had monthly 
disposable income of £836.18. it decided that the loan repayment of £120.16 was affordable 
for Mr K.
Looking at the information obtained from the checks, I think it wouldve been proportionate 
for Oplo to carry out further checks to get a better understanding of Mr Ks financial 
circumstances. I say this because Mr Ks debt repayments (based on monthly income of 
£2,992 and monthly debt repayments of £1,297) including the loan) meant that he was using 
43% of his monthly income to repay debt. I also think that Mr Ks overall level of unsecured 
debt and his history of missed payments ought to have prompted Oplo to carry out further 
checks.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
I dont know what further checks Oplo would have carried out and what these might have 
shown. Ive looked at Mr Ks bank statements for the three months prior to the lending 
decision because I think this gives a fair indication of Mr Ks financial circumstances at the 
time.
The bank statements show that the figures provided in the affordability assessment for Mr 
Ks income and expenditure are accurate. But the statements also show that Mr K had a 
gambling addiction, spending over £2,400 on gambling in one month. Mr K was using credit 
to fund his gambling addiction. Looking at Mr Ks statements, I dont think further credit was 
sustainable.
I appreciate that Oplo has said that it had no reason to suspect that Mr K had an undisclosed 
gambling problem and therefore it didnt see the need to look at his bank statements. But as 
Ive explained above, I think Mr Ks high debt to income ratio shouldve promoted Oplo to 
carry out further checks. If Oplo had carried out further checks, I think its likely that it would 
have discovered that Mr K had a gambling problem. I dont think Oplo shouldve lent to Mr K 
in these circumstances.
Loan 2
Ive thought ab out whether there had been a change in Mr Ks circumstances between loan 
1 and loan 2. Ive looked at Mr Ks bank statements for the period leading up to loan 2. Its 
clear that his circumstances hadnt changed. He was still gambling with significant amounts 
of money and was relying on credit to fund the gambling. His unsecured debt had increased, 
and he had significantly less monthly disposable income.
Because there had been no significant and sustained change to Mr Ks circumstances at the 
time of the second lending decision, I dont think Oplo shouldve lent to Mr K in these 
circumstances. 
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think Oplo shouldve lent to Mr K.
Putting things right
To put things right, Oplo should:
A. Add together the total of repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans with an outstanding balance
B. Pay 8% simple interest on the payments made by Mr K considered at A, calculated 
from the date Mr K made the payments to the date of settlement
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges on any upheld loans and treat any repayments 
made by Mr K as thought they had been repayments of the principal on all upheld 
loans. If this results in Mr K having made overpayments, then Oplo should refund 
these overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made to the date of settlement. Oplo should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A + B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loans. If this results in a 
surplus then this should be paid to Mr K. However, if there is still an outstanding 
balance, Oplo must agree an affordable payment plan with Mr K
E. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation to the 
upheld loans
F. HMRC requires Oplo to deduct tax from the award of interest. Oplo must give Mr K a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Oplo PL Ltd must take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman