DRN-3340669
The complaint
Ms S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt treated her fairly in relation to three 
home insurance claims for water damage, and she says items are outstanding.
Mr T was a joint policyholder at the time of the claims, and the registered owner of the 
property.
What happened
Mr T has told us he hasnt lived at the property since 2013, and that ownership has recently 
passed to Ms S as part of their divorce settlement. However, he remains party to this 
complaint, as it involves the cash settlement he received.
In March 2018, Ms S made a claim due to a leak from her en-suite. This was her third claim 
for water damage. The other two claims were made in 2014 and 2015. In January 2019, 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to manage the latest claim, who in turn appointed a 
contractor. 
In March 2019, Ms S explained she could no longer remain in the property during the works 
due to her medical conditions. She asked to be moved into a hotel and spa. I understand 
much of the work had, by that point, been completed.
In April 2019, Ms S made a complaint. On 19 April 2019, Aviva issued a final response to her 
complaint. The final response letter set out the following:
- When the loss adjuster was first appointed, Ms S explained she was unable to move 
out of her home as she needed to be within a dark environment. Aviva explained the 
property was considered habitable, but it will consider Ms Ss request for alternative 
accommodation if she provides a note from a doctor advising why this is necessary 
during the remaining works.
- Ms S complained she had tripped over and damaged her teeth veneers due to the 
contractors leaving something on the floor. She also complained her cleaner had 
nearly tripped over a phone wire. Aviva explained its loss adjuster would discuss 
those matters in more detail with Ms S.
- Ms S said she had unpaid food bills, for £1,300, from a previous claim. Aviva said it 
had checked its records and no payments were outstanding.
- Ms S also said she had food bills, for £900, in relation to this claim. Aviva explained it 
doesnt pay for food as a policyholder would always have food costs regardless of 
their claim. However, Aviva said its loss adjuster can consider a disturbance 
allowance.
- Ms S complained her cat is dying due to mould. Aviva disputed there was mould at 
the property, and it asked Ms S to provide a report from a vet to support her 
accusation.
- Ms S had complained about the original loss adjusters handling of the claim. Aviva 
noted it had arranged for two other individuals at the loss adjusting firm to oversee 
the claim. A meeting had been arranged with Ms S, so they can go through the 
claim and the issues noted above. The meeting was planned for 24 April 2019.
Avivas final response letter explained Ms S had six months to contact our service about her 
complaint; and if it wasnt referred to us within that timescale, it wouldnt give us permission 
to consider the matter.
In February 2020, the loss adjuster wrote to Ms S. The letter noted that, on 24 April 2019, it 
was agreed she would provide evidence from her doctor to support she couldnt stay at the 
property whilst the work was finished, and a report from a vet in respect of her cats health. 
However, the loss adjuster said, despite regularly chasing, the information hadnt been 
forthcoming. As such, it was now closing the claim.
In April 2020, Ms S sent Aviva a letter from her doctor. Aviva didnt act on the letter until 
October 2020. The loss adjuster agreed to source alternative accommodation whilst the 
repairs were completed.
Two weeks later, in October 2020, the loss adjuster wrote to Ms S to explain it would be 
cash settling the remaining work. The loss adjuster explained the cost of that work was 
£4,448.85, but the £500 policy excess would be deducted from the payment. The loss 
adjuster noted the work would take five days, so it would also pay alternative 
accommodation for a week. 
Two days later, the loss adjuster wrote to Ms S again to explain it would now pay the cash 
settlement in full, to Mr T. Ms S made a further complaint.
On 26 November 2020, Aviva issued a second final response letter. The final response letter 
set out the following:
- Mr T is the main policyholder, and he cant be excluded from the settlement. On this 
occasion, the cost of the outstanding repairs will be paid to Mr T, so the works can 
progress. 
- Mr T wont be involved in the arrangement of Ms Ss alternative accommodation, and 
the loss adjuster will address this part of the claim with Ms S.
- Aviva cant become involved in any dispute between Ms S and Mr T about the 
remaining work  thats a matter for them and/or their solicitors.
Ms S contacted our service on 3 December 2020, and during our investigators review she 
detailed various complaint points. Our investigator concluded that three of those complaint 
points werent in our jurisdiction as they hadnt been referred to us within six months of 
Avivas April 2019 final response letter. Those complaint points were:
- Damage to Ms Ss veneers.
- Ms Ss cats death.
- Unpaid food bills.
In respect of eight complaint points our investigator did consider, he wasnt persuaded Aviva 
had done anything substantially wrong. Ill set out what he said about the cash settlement, 
and the complaint points he upheld.In respect of the cash settlement for the remaining repairs, our investigator suggested Mr T 
return the funds to Aviva so it could finish the repairs. Mr T declined on the basis the funds 
had been used to reduce the mortgage, but Ms S said she would give Aviva the money. 
However, Aviva explained it wasnt prepared to send its contractors back to Ms Ss 
property. Our investigator thought that was fair, given the allegations so far and the 
breakdown of Avivas and Ms Ss relationship. He also didnt think Aviva acted 
unreasonably by paying the cash settlement funds to Mr T.
However, our investigator noted the cash settlement was based on what it would cost Aviva 
to complete the remaining repairs, rather than what it would cost Ms S. He didnt think that 
was fair, given Aviva wasnt offering to complete the work. So, he thought Ms S should be 
given six months to submit her own quotes to Aviva, and Aviva should consider whether it 
needs to pay anything more, above what its already paid Mr T. 
Our investigator also noted that, in October 2020, Ms S was told Aviva would now arrange 
alternative accommodation and finish the repairs, but it then quickly changed its position, 
forcing a cash settlement. Our investigator thought the change of position, and lack of 
engagement about this, caused distress.
Our investigator also thought Aviva had caused significant delays during the claim. He noted 
no meaningful action was taken on the claim between when Aviva first visited the property in 
April 2018 and when it appointed a loss adjuster in January 2019. He also noted that Aviva 
received Ms Ss doctors note in April 2020, but it didnt act on this until October 2020.
Finally, he didnt think Aviva had acted reasonably by declining the rest of the claim whilst 
waiting for the doctor and vet information from Ms S. He said, given Aviva had already 
accepted the claim, it would have been more appropriate to cash settle the remaining 
repairs, rather than declining the rest of the claim.
Bearing in mind those delays, and avoidable distress caused to Ms S, our investigator 
thought Aviva should pay her £750 compensation.
Aviva accepted our investigators findings. But because Ms S remained unhappy, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can and cant consider. 
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, I cant consider the damage to Ms Ss veneers, 
her cats death, or the food bills which she says Aviva agreed to pay. So, Im sorry to 
disappoint Ms S, but I wont be commenting on these issues any further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete, or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.Ms S has asked for more time to provide further submissions. However, her complaint has 
been with our service for over a year and we cant leave cases ongoing indefinitely. Having 
reviewed the information provided so far, Im satisfied that both parties have been given a 
fair opportunity to make arguments and provide evidence. Im also satisfied I dont require 
further information to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable, and I dont consider it 
would be helpful to Ms S or Aviva to delay my final decision. The parties need to move 
forward.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ss submissions, including the notes my colleagues have made 
during their discussions with her. Ive also listened to two recent phone calls between Ms S 
and one of our managers. However, it isnt my role to comment on every point made. Its for 
me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the issues I consider relevant to 
its outcome. Where I havent directly commented on points that are within our jurisdiction, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. This is simply a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service, its remit, and my role in it. 
Ill now set out my findings on the points we can consider, where I consider those points to 
be relevant to the crux of the complaint and its outcome.
Disturbance allowance.
A disturbance allowance isnt the same as paying for all food bills. But rather, an insurer may 
pay a disturbance allowance to reflect the insureds increased living costs, whilst they have 
limited access to amenities such as cooking or washing facilities.
Ms S says her kitchen isnt accessible and its hazardous. However, I havent seen anything 
that supports what she says here, and shes provided numerous photos and videos of her 
living conditions. 
Ms S says shes bed bound and confined to the second floor of her property. She also says 
that she can only go down the stairs with the help of a carer. However, whilst Ive seen she 
has medical conditions, I havent seen anything that persuades me the damage caused by 
the leak, or the outstanding repairs, has resulted in her not being able to access the other 
floors of her property, or increased her day-to-day living costs. 
Therefore, based on the information presented, I cant reasonably decide Aviva needs to pay 
a disturbance allowance. 
Outstanding works and issues from the 2014 and 2015 claims
Ms S had two previous claims, for other leaks. In February 2016, my ombudsman colleague 
issued a final decision. In her decision, she directed Aviva to arrange a project manager to 
oversee the remaining repairs.
In November 2017, Ms S signed a satisfaction survey marking all questions as excellent 
and commenting excellent builders and customer service. Ive seen that the signature 
matches another document signed by Ms S.
In Ms Ss latest submissions, she says the following works are outstanding from the two 
previous claims:
- The bathroom repairs, from the 2014 claim, are negligent and incomplete.
- The panel under the sink wasnt replaced during the 2014 claim.
- The bathroom plumbing, from the 2014 claim, is defective.
- Snagging hasnt been completed from the 2015 claim.- Redecorations are needed due to unfinished works.
- The dishwasher kitchen unit door was thrown out.
- The kitchen skirting boards were thrown out.
- A new unit door and skirting is now needed.
- The kitchen was only partly painted.
I cant reasonably uphold any complaint points relating to the 2014 and 2015 claim repairs. If 
Ms S wasnt satisfied Aviva had complied with my ombudsman colleagues final decision, or 
if some works or issues remained outstanding, she ought reasonably to have raised those 
matters at the time of Aviva ending its work. Too much time has now passed in respect of 
being able to determine what, if any, claim related work was left outstanding, and which 
party is responsible for that.
Ms S has also raised the following issues:
- Carpets need replacing due to damage caused by protective film and stacked boxes.
- Items were left outside for a year, during the 2014 claim, attracting vermin.
- Clothing and furnishings were ruined from dust during the works.
Ive seen there was still the protective film on the stairs carpet when the loss adjuster visited 
in February 2019. Ive also seen from Ms Ss photos that several rooms contain stacked 
boxes, which she says have been left like that for 8-9 years.
I havent seen the carpets are damaged. Nonetheless, I dont doubt that having possessions 
stacked in such a way, and the items and rooms out of use for so long, has been upsetting 
and made the living environment difficult. However, Im not persuaded that it was Avivas 
responsibility to unpack the items after the 2014 and 2015 claim repairs had ended, and 
Ms S could have arranged for the protective film to be removed herself, or raised it with 
Aviva at the time. I cant reasonably decide Aviva is responsible after so much time has 
passed. 
In respect of clothing and furnishings being damaged by dust, I havent seen anything that 
supports what Ms S says here. Likewise, even if items relating to the 2014 claim were left 
outside by Aviva, I havent seen this caused a vermin issue. Ultimately, Ms S ought 
reasonably to have pursued complaint about those matters at the time.
Contents claim
Ms S says shes yet to pursue her contents claim. Its not clear what incident has allegedly 
caused damage to contents items. 
However, I dont consider Aviva can reasonably be expected to consider contents items that 
were allegedly damaged during the 2014 or 2015 leaks, or during Avivas repairs for those 
leaks, or due to how items were boxed. In my view, too much time has passed since the 
claims were closed.
If Ms S considers contents items were damaged by the 2018 leak, or during Avivas repairs 
for that leak, shell need to make that claim to Aviva first so it can consider the matter. If my 
final decision is accepted by Ms S, Aviva will have to consider the contents part of Ms Ss 
2018 claim, providing she submits the information within six months of accepting my final 
decision.Carers
Ms S says Aviva agreed to pay for a carer for an hour each week, but it hasnt done so. Ive 
not seen Aviva agreed to cover carer costs, and its not something that Ms S is entitled to 
under the policy. So, I cant reasonably decide Aviva needs to cover such costs.
Ms S also says Aviva left her property in a dangerous and hazardous state, which has led to
several carers and cleaners leaving her employment. Ive reviewed the photos and videos 
provided by Ms S. Ive seen a bathroom is yet to be finished, and the flooring is yet to be 
laid in some areas and the skirting boards refitted. I understand those outstanding works 
relate to the latest claim. However, Ive not seen the property has been left in an unsafe 
condition. I acknowledge theres several rooms containing stacked boxes, but as noted 
above, I cant reasonably decide Aviva is responsible for that.
Hot water
Ms S says she was left without hot water for two years, after Aviva turned the hot water off 
whilst working in the bathroom. Aviva says it didnt carry out any works to the boiler and it 
would have tested the taps in the bathroom after its repairs. 
Like our investigator, Ive not seen any evidence Aviva undertook work to the boiler, or that 
the leak from the en-suite or Avivas work could have caused an issue with the hot water. 
So, on balance, Im not persuaded I can reasonably uphold this complaint point.
Settlement for the 2018 claim 
Aviva says it cash settled the remaining repairs because it was having difficulty carrying out 
work during the pandemic. Given Ms Ss vulnerabilities, I dont find Avivas explanation to 
be reasonable. Furthermore, Mr T says whilst he asked Aviva about the progress of the 
repairs as the house was to be sold, he never agreed to a cash settlement. 
However, although I dont agree with Avivas given reasoning for cash settling the claim, and 
whilst Im mindful of Ms Ss vulnerabilities, Im not persuaded I can reasonably direct Aviva 
to send its contractors back to the property to complete the work. Ms S has made serious 
accusations in relation to her injury and her cats death, and shes remained unhappy with 
Avivas work over three claims. In the circumstances, I dont consider it to be in Avivas or 
Ms Ss interests to have Aviva carry out further work. As such, she will need to make her 
own arrangements. I dont reach my decision lightly. I appreciate arranging the work 
privately will likely be a challenge for Ms S and those helping her.
I understand why Ms S is unhappy the cash settlement was paid to Mr T. However, at the 
time, he was the main policyholder and the owner of the property. Ultimately, any dispute 
between Ms S and Mr T is a matter between them.
I agree with our investigator and his reasoning, that Ms S should be given an opportunity to 
submit quotes for the unfinished work in relation to the 2018 claim. 
Im mindful that Ms S might not know what repairs were to be carried out as part of the 2018 
claim, what repairs are outstanding, or what repairs formed part of the cash settlement paid 
to Mr T. Therefore, Aviva will need to provide her with a clearly broken-down scope of work, 
setting that information out.
Ms S is free to submit quotes to Aviva for any work she feels is outstanding as a result of the 
2018 claim. I consider it fair and reasonable for her to be given six months to provide quotes, 
from the date Aviva sends her the broken-down scope.Aviva will need to consider the quotes to decide if the cash settlement paid to Mr T should be 
increased, and if so, it should pay the increase to Ms S. If theres a dispute about what work 
is outstanding as a result of the 2018 claim, or about the reasonable cost of those works, 
Ms S is free to make another complaint. 
Finally, theres the matter of alternative accommodation whilst the repairs for the 2018 claim 
are completed. Aviva has already accepted its reasonable for Ms S to move out during the 
work, and I understand it sent her £245 to cover alternative accommodation for a week. If 
Ms S doesnt consider £245 to be sufficient, she should explain why when providing the 
repair quotes.
Compensation
Whilst I cant consider some of Ms Ss complaint points, and I dont uphold many of those 
I can consider, I agree with our investigator that theres been instances of avoidable delay 
and distress caused by Aviva:
- There were nine months between when the claim was made and the loss adjusters 
appointment; and six months between when Aviva received the doctors note and 
when it acted on it. Aviva hasnt disputed those 15 months of delay.
- Avoidable distress was caused by Avivas decision to decline the remainder of the 
claim; and further avoidable distress was caused by the change of position, in 
respect of forcing a cash settlement instead of completing the repairs.
I acknowledge Ms S isnt well, and shes been through a difficult time. However, as set out 
throughout my findings, Im not persuaded Aviva can reasonably be held responsible for 
most of the complaint points raised. I need to decide what fair compensation is, for the 
impact of the issues I have upheld, bearing in mind Ms Ss individual circumstances.
Given Ms Ss vulnerabilities, which Aviva was aware of, I dont consider £750 compensation 
goes far enough. That said, I acknowledge theres been challenges for Aviva, and delays, 
which werent of its making. Having carefully considered the information presented, Im 
increasing the award to £1,250.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint in part.
My final decision is Aviva Insurance Limited should:
- pay Ms S £1,250 compensation, in total (if £750 has already been paid following our 
investigators findings, a further £500 would be due);
- provide Ms S with a breakdown of the 2018 claim repairs, setting out the work thats 
been completed, the work thats outstanding, and the work that formed part of the 
cash settlement paid to Mr T;
-consider increasing the cash settlement for the remaining 2018 claim repairs, if Ms S 
provides a quote within six-months of being sent the scope breakdown (any increase 
is to be paid to Ms S, and should there be a dispute about the outstanding work or 
the cost of that work, a new complaint can be made); -consider increasing the cash settlement for the alternative accommodation in respect 
of the remaining 2018 claim repairs, if Ms S provides information about those costs 
within six-months of being sent the scope breakdown (any increase is to be paid to 
Ms S, and should there be a dispute about the alternative accommodation, a new 
complaint can be made); and
-consider the contents part of Ms Ss 2018 claim, if she submits the details within six 
months of accepting my final decision (should there be a dispute about those 
contents items, a new complaint can be made).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman