DRN-2186063
The complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) gave him incorrect information about 
how long it would take to re-mortgage with another provider. He asks that it refunds some of 
the interest he paid while his mortgage was on Halifaxs standard variable rate.
What happened
Mr S had a mortgage with Halifax. His fixed rate product was due to end in October 2019. 
Mr S was unhappy with the products offered by Halifax and decided to apply elsewhere. 
Mr S says Halifax told him it would take about two months to re-mortgage with another 
provider, and so he started applying elsewhere two months before his product was due to 
expire. However, it was six months before his re-mortgage completed and Halifaxs SVR 
applied for four months. Mr S says Halifax should refund about £1,500 of the additional 
interest he paid.
Our investigator said Halifax wasnt responsible for delays with Mr Ss re-mortgage with 
another provider. While some of Halifaxs service was poor, it offered £110 compensation 
which the investigator said was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he sent emails to Halifax which went unanswered. He said it 
shouldnt have taken so long to re-mortgage and there should be warnings about it. Mr S 
says the interest he paid while on the SVR was extortionate, and says Halifax misled him 
about how long it would take to re-mortgage for its own benefit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S decided to apply to another lender because he was unhappy with the products offered 
by Halifax, and that Halifax offered better rates to new customers than to existing customers. 
I should say here that were an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator and 
we dont have the powers of a regulator. Halifax makes commercial decisions about the 
interest rate products it offers. While I understand the points Mr S makes, I cant require 
Halifax to change the interest rate products it offers. 
Mr S did have the option of applying to a different provider which offered better interest rate 
products, and this is what he decided to do. He says Halifax told him this would take about 
two months. So he started this process two months before his interest rate product was due 
to expire.
From what Mr S has said, he was declined by more than one lender before he made a 
successful application. He says two lenders each took about two months to decline his 
application. I can understand how frustrating this was for Mr S. But Halifax isnt responsible 
for lending decisions made by other providers, or the time they took to make a decision 
whether to lend. Mr S wouldnt have known the first two mortgage lenders he applied to 
would decline his application, and neither did Halifax.
Mr S says the lender that accepted his application took two months. This is consistent with 
what he says he was told by Halifax.
and was declinedour text here
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman