DRN-4190344
The complaint
Mr R complains that Metro Bank Plc held him liable for payments from his account which he
says he didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. On 18 February 2022 there was activity on
Mr Rs Metro Bank account which he says he didnt recognise.
There were some incoming credits and three outgoing payments for £4,400, £10,540 and
£3,210. The outgoing payments were all instructed by mobile banking and appear to have
gone to a cryptocurrency provider. Some of the incoming payments were later reported to
Metro Bank as not having been authorised by the owners of the accounts that sent them.
And one of the incoming payments (£2,100) came from an account in Mr Rs name (with
another bank B) and he says he didnt instruct this payment either. There were also internal
transfers from accounts also held with Metro Bank which facilitated part of the outgoing
payments. Specifically, £450 from another of Mr Rs accounts and £3,070 from an account
controlled by Mr R on behalf of his son.
When Mr R noticed the account activity, he immediately reported this to Metro Bank. Metro
Bank identified that the payments were instructed from Mr Rs phone and held him liable for
them. A complaint was made and the matter was referred to our service. One of our
Investigators considered the complaint and was supportive of Metro Banks position. Mr R
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to consider his complaint. He remained adamant
he hadnt made the disputed transactions.
While the complaint was in the queue for an Ombudsmans decision, Metro Bank contacted
our service. They said that their specialist team had now identified that Mr R may have been
the victim of a malware attack on his mobile device and that this could have resulted in the
unauthorised transactions being made. Initially they offered Mr R £6,975. This represented
all the outgoing payments, less those reported to them as unauthorised by other banks (as
those funds werent Mr Rs). But they later reduced this to £4,875 as they said Mr Rs other
bank B should be responsible for the outstanding £2,100.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and disagreed with Metro Bank, he
recommended that they should pay Mr R the full £6,975. Metro Bank maintained that they
should only have to pay £4,875. I understand they paid this amount to Mr R in June 2023.
But they asked for an Ombudsmans decision in relation to the outstanding £2,100.
In August 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached a similar outcome to that of our Investigator, but as there is a
difference in my proposed redress, Im issuing this provisional decision to give everyone a
further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision.
I understand that the basis of Metro Bank not wanting to refund the outstanding £2,100 is
that they believe that B should be responsible for this instead. I cant comment on the
actions of B in this decision. This is a complaint made by Mr R against Metro Bank. And so
whilst I understand why Metro Bank are highlighting the actions of B, I cant make a direction
on that matter and can only consider the complaint in front of me. A complaint about B linked
to these circumstances was considered by our service and closed several months ago. I am
satisfied that Mr R wasnt refunded the £2,100 by B.
It no longer seems to be in dispute that the payments from Mr Rs Metro Bank account were
unauthorised. And given the nature of the likely compromise of his device, I dont think it can
fairly be said that Mr R failed with intent or gross negligence to keep his security credentials
safe.
The regulation, which applies in these circumstances, Payment Services Regulations 2017
(PSRs) is clear that the Payment Service Provider (Metro Bank) should refund Mr R with the
amount of the unauthorised transactions. So as Im satisfied that the disputed sum of £2,100
was paid away from Mr Rs account with Metro Bank I intend to direct for it to be refunded.
And whilst I appreciate that Metro Bank pro-actively changed their position as to whether the
payments were authorised, Mr R has still been without a significant sum of money for an
extended period of time. As such, to put Mr R back in the position he would have been in,
but for the unauthorised transactions, I think interest should be added.
Putting Things Right
Its accepted that Mr R only has a potential claim to £6,975 of the outgoing payments. The
remainder was funded by credits that he had no entitlement to. But of that £6,975, £3,070
belonged to his son (and was transferred into Mr Rs account before being sent out).
I can only make an award to Mr R himself as the eligible complainant, not his son.
Metro Bank has already paid Mr R £4,875. But this included £3,070 that belonged to his son.
Mr R has told us (and Ive no reason to doubt) that he has since paid the £3,070 into another
account in his sons name. As such I think Metro Bank should pay 8% simple interest on
£1,805 (£4,875 less £3,070). This should be calculated between the date the payments
debited his account and the date the £4,875 payment was made and is to compensate Mr R
for being without his own money for that period of time.
Metro Bank should also pay the outstanding £2,100 to Mr R and add 8% simple interest to
that amount. This should be calculated between the date of debit and the date of 
settlement.
Mr R responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. Metro Bank didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason 
to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank Plc must take the steps outlined 
at Putting Things Right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman