DRN-3835677
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with MBNA in August 2016. His credit limit was set
at £7,500 and increased to £9,300 in April 2017. He opened a second credit card in
February 2017 and his limit on this account was £4,000.
Mr B says he got into too much debt with multiple lenders and had to enter a debt
management plan. He says MBNA didnt carry out appropriate checks before lending to him.
MBNA says it did all the necessary checks and it didnt see anything which might make it
think Mr B couldnt afford the credit.
Our adjudicator didnt think MBNA had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed, so the
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I reached a different conclusion so I issued a provisional decision to give both parties a 
chance to comment. An extract follows and forms part of this final decision.
Extract from my provisional decision
MBNA needed to take reasonable steps to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. This means without
having to borrow to repay or suffering other adverse financial consequences. These checks
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, Mr Bs income and expenditure and his credit history.
This means to reach my decision I need to decide if MBNA carried out proportionate
checks at the time of the applications and the limit increase; if so, did it make fair lending
decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would most likely
have shown.
The August 2016 application and April 2017 credit limit increase
MBNA says that at application it asked Mr B his income and that it did checks with a credit
reference agency. It also used a consumer indebtedness index to assess Mr Bs application.
It says there were no signs that Mr B might have had difficulty meeting his repayments. It
says Mr B declared an income of £33,000 and it estimated Mr Bs living costs using national
statistics. I cant see it has told us what this means it assumed his costs to be. I can see from
the credit check it has shared that Mr Bs file showed a mortgage of £108,278 and
loans/credit card debt of £17,608. MBNA says that Mr B was managing his existing credit
well, and I can see there were no defaults, CCJs or missed payments showing.
But given the value of the limit and the amount of debt Mr B already had I dont think these
checks were proportionate. I think MBNA ought to have made sure it understood Mr Bs
actual outgoings before deciding the credit would be sustainably affordable.
To allow me to understand what MBNA would most likely have seen had it carried out better
checks I have looked at Mr Bs bank statement from the month of his application. I am not
saying MBNA had to do this, but it is a way for me to understand what proportionate checks
would most likely have shown MBNA. I can see Mr B made payments to his existing credit
providers of £1,038.94, excluding his mortgage payment of £605.68. In that month his salary
was £1,983.39. Without even looking at his living costs, and therefore the pounds and pence
affordability, I think it was clear that taking on any more credit would most likely not be
sustainably affordable for Mr B. Mr B was already spending over 50% of his salary on
consumer credit, a level at which it is fair to conclude giving more credit will most likely mean
the borrower cannot repay their debt without borrowing again, or suffering other adverse 
financial consequences. This was proven to be the case here as Mr B later had to enter a
debt management plan.
It follows I think MBNA was wrong to provide the card to Mr B. This therefore means any
subsequent lending on this account should not have been given.
The February 2017 card application
Logically, given my previous finding, I would not expect MBNA to have provided any other
products to Mr B unless it could satisfy itself his financial position had improved. From the
results of the checks it carried out this was not the case  when Mr B applied for the second
card his outstanding debt on other cards and loans had increased to £21,583. He did not
declare a significantly higher salary (£33,350) and so for the same reason as set out above
for the first card I find MBNA ought to have declined Mr Bs application.
I then set out what MBNA would need to do to put things right if I went on to uphold the 
complaint.
Both parties responded before the deadline of 1 December 2022. Mr B agreed with the 
revised assessment. MBNA agreed to refund all interest charges applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Mr Bs complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, and didnt submit any new evidence for 
consideration, I have no reason to change the findings and outcome set out in it. 
I would flag that MBNA said it would refund charges applied but it must complete all the 
steps below, not just refund the charges, in line with our established approach to redress in 
irresponsible lending complaints.
  
It follows I am upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Putting things right
I dont think MBNA should have lent to Mr B at all, so I dont think its fair for it to charge anyinterest or charges on any balance. I understand both accounts were paid off in June 2022 
and so there is no capital to repay. 
So MBNA should:
Rework both accounts removing all interest and charges. I note MBNA has said there 
was only ever charges applied to one account.
As the rework will result in a credit balance this should be refunded to Mr B along 
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to 
the date of settlement. 
MBNA should also remove any adverse information recorded in relation to the 
accounts from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
MBNA has asked that Mr B confirm the bank details for the account he wishes this payment 
to be made to.
 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. MBNA Limited must now put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman