DRN-2918976
The complaint
Ms L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation claim she
made on her travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Ms L had booked a package tour abroad and was due to travel with her friend, who Ill call
Mrs M. They were due to travel on 12 February 2020 and were due to fly back to the UK on
25 February 2020. Unfortunately, Mrs M suffered a flare-up of asthma. Her GP advised her
not to travel as a result of her asthma flare and also because of the likely risk of Covid-19 in
the countries surrounding Ms L and Mrs Ms destination. So Ms L cancelled the trip and
made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes turned down Ms Ls claim. It said the policy didnt cover Ms Ls situation. Thats
because the Foreign & Commonwealth Office hadnt advised against travel to Ms Ls
destination and because it said the policy didnt cover disclination to travel.
Ms L was unhappy with Great Lakes decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Ms Ls complaint should be upheld. He said the cancellation section
of the policy provided cover if a policyholders travelling companion suffers an unforeseen
illness. He considered the medical certificate Mrs Ms GP had completed and he noted that
the GP had stated that Mrs Ms illness was down to an asthma flare. He also noted that the
GP had stated it was medically necessary for Mrs M cancel her trip. On this basis, the
investigator was satisfied that Ms Ls travelling companion had suffered an unforeseen
illness which had led to the cancellation of the trip. So he felt that Great Lakes should settle
the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed. It felt the trip had been cancelled as a precautionary measure due to
Covid-19, rather than due to an exacerbation of Mrs Ms illness. So it didnt think Ms Ls
claim was valid.  
I issued a provisional decision on 3 June 2021. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I didnt think Great Lakes had handled Ms Ls claim fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Ms Ls policy, as these form the basis of her
contract with Great Lakes. As the trip was cancelled, I think its appropriate to consider the
claim under the cancellation section of the policy.
The policy says:
We will pay up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover
(an increase to £1,000/£3,000 cover option on Basic and up to £15,000 on Comprehensive
may be available, please see the table of benefits for details) per insured person for your
non-refundable deposits and amounts you have paid (or you are contracted to pay), for your
travel and accommodation (including pre-paid excursions up to £300 for Basic cover and
£350 for Comprehensive cover), and up to £350 (£175 for loss of deposit), Comprehensive
cover only, for pre-paid kennel or cattery fees which you do not use because of the following:
a) you, a close relative, travelling companion or any person with whom you have
arranged to stay during the trip suffers unforeseen illness, injury or, death.
Great Lakes believes that Ms Ls claim isnt covered because it thinks her trip was cancelled
as a precautionary measure to protect Mrs Ms health, rather than due to a flare-up of her
existing illness. So Ive looked closely at the available medical evidence to decide whether I
think this was a fair conclusion for Great Lakes to draw.
Mrs Ms GP stated that the exact nature of her illness was an asthma flare (mild)  travel to
coronavirus risk area. The GP has also answered Yes to the question as to whether the
cancellation was medically necessary. And he also stated that Mrs M wouldnt be medically
fit to travel until 3 March 2020.
I accept the GP has stated that Mrs M only had a mild illness and has referred to the risk of
Covid-19 in the area she and Ms L were due to travel to. Ive also borne in mind the GPs
note Great Lakes sent us which states: asthma playing up, concerned about  medical
facilities with novel corona virus. sensible to avoid remote area if unwell.
But Im currently satisfied the available medical evidence demonstrates that Mrs M had an
asthma flare-up. It also shows that her GP thought she wasnt medically fit to travel and
wouldnt be for around a month. And the note Great Lakes sent us states that Mrs Ms
condition was playing up. I also think it suggests that it was because Mrs M was unwell that
the GP felt it was sensible to avoid remote areas. So Im persuaded that the totality of the
medical evidence Ive seen shows that Ms Ls travelling companion suffered an unforeseen
illness, which prevented her from travel. This led to the cancellation of Ms Ls trip.
As such, I currently think Ms Ls claim falls within the scope of the cancellation cover
provided by the policy. And so, I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to turn
down her claim on this basis. This means I think the fair outcome is for Great Lakes to
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted me to look 
at.
Ms L didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Great Lakes told us it had nothing to add over and above its previous arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any new evidence or information, I see no 
reason to change my provisional conclusions. This means my final decision is the same as 
my provisional decision and for the same reasons.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to reconsider Ms Ls claim, in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman