DRN-3700578
The complaint
Mr S complained that Aviva Life & Pensions (Aviva) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer 
his occupational pension to a personal pension plan. 
Mr S is represented in this complaint but, for ease, I will refer to all actions and comments as 
those of Mr S. 
What happened
Mr S met with a representative from a predecessor business of Aviva in 1991. He was 
advised to transfer his occupational pension to an Aviva personal pension plan. The pension 
funds, valued at £14,110.26, were transferred to Aviva in April 1991. 
Several years later, in 1994, the then Regulator set up an industry-wide review  known as 
the Pensions Review  of particular pension business carried out by authorised firms 
between 1988 and 1994. At Mr Ss request, Aviva carried out a review of his pension that 
was completed in 1998. Aviva told Mr S that a calculation had been completed comparing 
the benefits of his personal pension with that of his former occupational pension and no 
cause for concern had been identified.
Mr S complained to Aviva in July 2021 that the advice to transfer his pension had been 
unsuitable. He also complained that his pension transfer wasnt included in the Pensions 
Review when it should have been.  
Aviva responded and said Mr Ss pension transfer was reviewed during Phase 1 of the 
Pensions Review. It said it carried out a loss assessment and established the advice to 
transfer hadnt resulted in a financial loss as at the date of calculation. Aviva said Mr S was 
informed of the review outcome by letter in August 1998. It said the review was carried out in 
line with the Regulators guidelines and so it didnt need to consider this matter further.  
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this Service. He said he believed he 
lost out financially as a result of the advice to transfer his pension and he asked to be 
compensated for the loss. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said Aviva provided evidence that 
showed Mr Ss pension transfer was looked at as part of the Pensions Review, with the 
review being completed in 1998. Our Investigator said Aviva compared the value of the 
personal pension with the value of the benefits Mr Ss occupational pension scheme would 
have provided and calculated that there was no loss to him.
Mr S didnt agree that he was notified of the review and didnt agree it had been carried out, 
so this came to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr S contacted Aviva in 2021 it was to complain that he thought the advice he 
received back in 1991 to transfer his pension was unsuitable. He also thought the transfer of 
his pension should have been looked at as part of the Pensions Review and said this hadnt 
happened. But, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr S was included in the 
Pensions Review. Ill explain why I say this. 
Aviva hasnt been able to provide a copy of the outcome letter it says it sent to Mr S in 
August 1998 once the review of his pension transfer had concluded. This is understandable 
given the amount of time that has passed since then. But it has provided screen shots from 
its system notes that show the steps it took between 1996 and 1998 to include Mr S in the 
Pensions Review. This included a screen shot of the contents of the outcome letter it says 
was sent to Mr S, the date the letter was sent and Mr Ss address  which was correct  at 
that point in time and its provided a screen shot of its loss calculation. So Im satisfied that 
Mr S was included in the Pensions Review and that a letter detailing the outcome was sent 
to him. 
I understand that Mr S said he doesnt recall receiving the outcome letter. I appreciate that 
the review was carried out many years ago and memories can fade with time. But Im 
satisfied that Aviva most likely sent the letter to him, given the information contained in its 
system notes. If the letter wasnt delivered to Mr S then Aviva cant be held responsible for 
that. For Aviva to have fulfilled its obligations, its enough that it completed the review and 
sent the letter with the outcome of the review. And Im conscious that Mr S requested a 
review of his pension and so would have been expecting a response from Aviva. I think its 
likely if this hadnt been received, he would have followed this up much sooner, rather than 
leaving it for 22 years.
Mr S has been provided with information about the review that was carried out in 1998 and 
hasnt complained about the accuracy of the information used to carry out the review or the 
review outcome. But, for completeness, Ive considered whether I think the review was 
carried out correctly. Aviva has provided information about Mr Ss pension review and a copy 
of the loss assessment it carried out in August 1998. Ive checked the key details that were 
input into the review documents and I cant see that any of the information used is obviously 
incorrect. Its also the case that pension review calculations were subject to supervision and 
sampling at the time by the then Regulator. Taking all of this into consideration, I think its 
more likely than not Aviva carried out the review correctly. 
Mr S also complained about the suitability of the advice to transfer his pension given by 
Aviva in 1991. But theres no need for me to consider the suitability of the advice. This is 
because Mr S was included in the Pensions Review and so Aviva has already taken the step 
of checking whether or not the transfer caused Mr S a financial loss. The outcome letter sent 
to Mr S said Aviva had valued both sets of benefits and the results indicate that no cause 
for concern has been identified. So it was concluded some time ago that there was, at that 
point in time, no financial loss to Mr S. 
It's important to note that under the industry wide Pensions Review, businesses only needed 
to carry out the review once, using the standards and assumptions the then Regulator told 
them to use. This is because the assumptions or predictions they used were considered 
reasonable at the time to assess any future loss. The Regulator intended that the review 
would draw a line under any pension mis-selling and would put things right at the time. Once 
a business carried out a pension review for a customer, they werent required to carry out 
another review.  I realise my decision will disappoint Mr S, but I am not asking Aviva to take any further action 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman