DRN-1421996
The complaint
Mr V says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about four short term loans PDL provided to Mr V between 
November 2017 and June 2019. Loans 1 to 3 were repayable by three monthly repayments 
and Loan 4 was repayable by six monthly instalments. Loan 4 hasnt been repaid. Mr Vs 
borrowing history is as follows:
 
Loan number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan amount Highest monthly 
repayment amount 
1.  20/11/17 26/4/18 £200  £116.26
2.  12/11/18 30/11/18 £200  £132.26
3.  17/12/18 24/5/19 £200  £125.94
4.  12/6/19 outstanding £600  £311.20
 
Mr V said that he had a severe gambling addiction at the time of PDLs loans. He also had a 
large number of other short term loans. He said that another short term lender had upheld 
his complaint about that lenders loans.
PDL in its final response letter said that as a gesture of goodwill it would be willing to 
discount the outstanding balance on Loan 4 and close the account, so no further money 
would be owed by Mr V.
Mr V rejected this offer. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Vs complaint in part. He said that Loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. He said that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr V was having 
problems managing his money as he already had a number of other short term loans 
outstanding. PDL ought to have realised that Mr V would have been unable to sustainably 
repay Loan 4. 
PDL disagreed. It said that Mr V had told it that he paid £94 to his other loans including short 
term loans. This had been taken into account when assessing the affordability of Loan 4. It 
noted that Mr Vs disposable income was £884 which meant that he was left with sufficient 
income even after making the highest repayment on Loan 4. PDL said that it didnt act 
unreasonably by relying on the information Mr V had given it and it shouldnt be expected to request bank statements or conduct a full review. These were disproportionate checks. It 
had carried out a credit check and assessed Mr Vs income and expenditure. PDL also said 
that Mr Vs payments had never been late and hed not missed previous repayments. Its 
checks showed no evidence of financial difficulties.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mr V said that another lender had upheld his complaint with it. But we treat each 
complaint on its own merits. It isnt always appropriate to compare the outcomes of 
complaints without a detailed understanding of the specific facts of each complaint.
When PDL lent to Mr V the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Mr V could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
There were two chains of lending in this complaint. One started at Loan 1 and the other 
started at Loan 2 because of a significant gap between Loans 1 and 2. So I think it was 
reasonable for PDL to treat Mr V as a new customer from Loan 2 and I would have expected 
PDL to carry out lower checks at the start of this lending chain.
PDL did a number of checks before it lent to Mr V. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. PDL said that Mr Vs declared monthly income was £1,212 before Loan 1 and 
£1,231 before Loans 2 to 4. Mr V said that his expenditure was between £216 and £347. He 
lived with his parents.
PDL also checked Mr Vs credit file before agreeing to the loans. PDL has provided us with a 
very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit score, that he hadnt been 
made bankrupt and wasnt in an individual voluntary arrangement in the previous three 
years. I dont think that the results of these checks should have caused additional concerns 
to PDL.
I have seen Mr Vs credit report but Ive not seen anything in the report that I think might 
have caused additional concerns to PDL about Mr Vs financial situation.
I note that Mr V said that he had a large number of payday loans from other lenders at the 
time be borrowed from PDL. But Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, 
the information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers 
credit search will and it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion 
of a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that 
not all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So Mr 
Vs other short term loans may not have been identified by PDLs credit check. So, this may 
explain any differences between the information provided by PDLs credit check and Mr Vs 
actual situation.
I think that the checks PDL carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate. I 
can see that the repayments that Mr V needed to make were relatively modest compared to 
the income that he declared to PDL. The highest repayment on these loans was £132.26 on 
Loan 2. But I dont think the repayment amounts were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Mr V financial difficulty.
So given Mr Vs repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3 and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask him for 
the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Mr V provided or the information 
PDL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So I dont think PDL was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr V.
I note that Mr V said that he had a severe gambling addiction at the time of PDLs loans. But 
that wasnt something he told PDL when he asked for the loans. And I dont think its 
something that PDL would have seen from proportionate checks on Loans 1 to 3.
I note that Mr V didnt repay Loan 3 on the due date. He only repaid the interest due in his 
first monthly repayment, and he paid the interest due and a small part of the capital due in 
his third repayment. He needed two further monthly repayments to repay the loan. I think 
that this might have caused PDL concerns when 19 days later Mr V borrowed Loan 4.  The loan amount for Loan 4 had significantly increased to £600 and the loan was to be 
repaid over six months with a highest repayment of £311.20. So Mr V was committing to 
paying substantially higher repayments and to repaying the loan for a far longer period than 
any of his previous loans.
I appreciate that PDL had asked Mr V for his income and expenditure including other loans. 
But in view of Mr Vs unsatisfactory repayment history on Loan 3 and the substantially 
increased amount of his borrowing on Loan 4, I dont think it was reasonable for PDL to base 
its assessment on the information provided by Mr V without taking steps to independently 
check what hed declared. So I think it might have been proportionate at this time for PDL to 
have independently reviewed the true state of Mr Vs finances. As far as I can see PDL didnt 
do this.
So I need to think about what PDL wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Had it made these, its likely that PDL wouldve learnt that Mr V had four outstanding short 
term loans repayable at the same time as Loan 4. I can see these on Mr Vs bank 
statements. I think that the number and amount of Mr Vs outstanding short term loans show 
that Mr V was having serious problems managing his money and that Loan 4 wasnt likely to 
be sustainable. So I think it was wrong for PDL to give Loan 4 to Mr V. 
So Im intending to uphold this complaint in part with regard to Loan 4 and say that PDL 
should put things right as shown below. 
Id also remind PDL to deal with Mr V positively and sympathetically in working with him to 
come to a suitable repayment plan for any balance outstanding if he is still experiencing 
financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr V paid on Loan 4;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*; 
3. Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
4. Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and 
pay any balance to Mr V; and
5. Remove all adverse entries about Loan 4 from Mr Vs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PDL to take off tax from this interest. PDL must give Mr V 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If PDL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman