DRN-4245442
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (Trading as First Direct) has debited money from 
his account for an ATM transaction that he says was unsuccessful.
What happened
Mr T says he used an ATM outside an HSBC branch on 17 October 2022 to try to withdraw 
£500. He says that after a short delay the machine showed a message stating that it was 
unable to process the transaction. Mr T says he then went into the branch and was told the 
issue may have been that he was trying to withdraw too large an amount, so he tried to 
make a smaller withdrawal, for £250, using the ATM within the branch. But Mr T says he got 
the same message on that ATM, and no money was dispensed. 
The next day, 18 October, Mr T asked HSBC to increase his daily withdrawal limit, and then 
successfully withdrew £500 in two transactions. But when he checked his statements, he 
saw that the withdrawal for £500 on the 17 October had also debited his account. As Mr T 
says he did not receive this money he raised his concerns with HSBC.
HSBC initially refunded the £500 while it looked into what had happened. But after some 
investigation it said that it was satisfied the £500 had been dispensed, so it reversed the 
refund.
HSBC did though pay Mr T £50 to recognise that it had provided him with some poor 
service, specifically in sending him a letter saying that there had been a malfunction on the 
ATM and that he could keep the refund when that was not actually the case.
Mr T was unhappy with HSBCs response, so he referred his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. They were satisfied that HSBC had provided 
evidence to show that the cash had been dispensed. Mr T disagreed with these findings, so 
as no agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the findings set out by our Investigator. HSBC has provided 
clear evidence from its internal systems which show that £500 was dispensed from Mr Ts 
account at the ATM within the branch on 17 October 2022. It has also provided internal 
records for the ATM which dont show any errors or faults with the ATM that day and show 
that when the ATM was balanced at the end of the month it did not show a surplus equal to 
the £500 that Mr T says was not dispensed. In my experience, any of the potential ways in 
which a cash withdrawal could fail would show some evidence of that on one of these 
records.
I appreciate how strongly Mr T feels about this, and that he maintains that no cash was 
dispensed to him on 17 October 2022. But based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant agree 
HSBC has done anything wrong. Im more persuaded by the records produced by the ATM 
machine and HSBCs internal systems. As such, I cant say HSBC needs to credit any funds 
to Mr T, as the records show that his cash was dispensed.
I acknowledge that there was some poor customer service here in the communications 
HSBC had with Mr T about his complaint, but Im satisfied the £50 HSBC has already paid to 
him was reasonable compensation for those service failings.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman