DRN-4164475
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has 
handled an incapacity claim he made on a group income protection insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive havent set it out in 
detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mr B is insured under his employers group income protection insurance policy. The policy 
provides cover for Mr B becoming incapacitated from carrying out his own occupation, 
switching to suited occupation cover after benefit had been in payment for a 12-month 
period.
In July 2020, Mr B was signed-off work suffering from a number of symptoms, which were 
broadly diagnosed as long Covid-19 and reactive arthritis. His employer made a claim on the 
income protection policy on Mr Bs behalf.
L&G obtained medical evidence from Mr Bs treating doctors. It accepted the claim and, in 
January 2021, following the end of the deferred period, it began to pay incapacity benefit.  
As the policy definition of incapacity was due to switch from Mr Bs own occupation to suited 
occupation in January 2022, which changed how benefit was paid, L&G required further 
information in order to decide whether he met the suited occupation definition of incapacity, 
as well as the own occupation definition. It considered that Mr B should undergo a Chronic 
Pain Abilities Determination (CPAD) assessment with an external provider, to assess his 
functional and cognitive capabilities. 
Mr B had some concerns about the suitability of a CPAD assessment, given his symptoms 
and given he felt a CPAD assessment might be detrimental to his health. 
L&G wrote to Mr Bs treating doctors to ask for further medical evidence regarding his 
condition. It reviewed the evidence it received with members of its own clinical team and a 
vocational clinical specialist. It didnt think there was any evidence to show that a CPAD 
assessment was unsuitable for or detrimental to Mr B. So it told Mr Bs employer that unless 
Mr B underwent CPAD assessment, it would suspend the monthly benefit payment.
Mr B was very unhappy with L&Gs position and he complained. He felt L&G had treated him 
unfairly and had communicated with him in a threatening way. He subsequently provided 
L&G with a letter from a consultant which stated that a CPAD assessment would be 
unsuitable for him and would have a detrimental impact upon his health
L&G issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. It agreed to continue to pay Mr B full 
benefit but maintained that it had handled his claim fairly. It said it would review the new 
evidence from the consultant.
Mr B remained unhappy with L&Gs position and he asked us to look into his complaint. 
Following its final response to Mr Bs complaint, L&G assessed the consultants new 
evidence. Based on that review, it concluded that instead of a CPAD assessment, Mr B 
should undergo a shorter, cognitive assessment.
Our investigator considered whether it had been fair for L&G to request a CPAD at the time it 
had issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. Based on the available medical evidence 
at the relevant time, she didnt think there was anything to indicate that CPAD assessment 
would be unsuitable for Mr B. She felt the policy terms entitled L&G to require evidence to 
indicate that Mr B continued to meet the policy definition of incapacity. And she also referred 
to a term which allowed L&G to end benefit if it considered a policyholder had unreasonably 
delayed the provision of information. Overall, she felt L&G had treated Mr B fairly at the time 
it issued its final response.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to the investigator. He felt that L&G had 
regularly assessed his condition during the life of the claim. He didnt agree that he had 
caused delays in its ability to determine whether he met the suited occupation definition of 
incapacity  he felt he had complied with L&Gs requests. He had concerns about the 
external provider L&G had proposed to use for the CPAD and he didnt agree that the 
provider had attempted to contact him to arrange assessments. Some of the medical 
evidence L&G had relied upon was out-of-date  Mr B had provided L&G with up-to-date 
information during the claim. He maintained that L&G had acted in a threatening way by 
stating that it would suspend the suited occupation portion of benefit. He also considered 
that L&G should reimburse him for the costs associated with obtaining the consultants 
opinion on whether a CPAD assessment was appropriate.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B, I think that L&G has treated him 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr B that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all that hes said and sent us. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point that hes made and nor do 
our rules require to me. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's also important that I explain the parameters of this decision. I understand that matters 
have moved on since L&G issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint in November 2022  
in terms of the nature of the assessment L&G required Mr B to undergo and whether benefit 
remains payable. However, this decision will only focus on what L&G considered in its final 
response letter of 15 November 2022  whether it was reasonable for L&G to have 
requested a CPAD before and up to October 2022.  I wont be considering L&Gs response 
to the consultants opinion and nor will I be commenting on any further claims decision its 
made. I understand Mr B has made a separate complaint to L&G about its claims handling 
following its review of the consultants letter. If he is unhappy with the outcome of that complaint, he may be able to bring a new complaint to us about that issue alone.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the income protection policy and the available evidence, to decide whether I 
think L&G treated Mr B fairly.
Ive first considered the terms of the policy and the policy schedule, as these form the basis 
of Mr Bs employers contract with L&G. In brief, the terms say that in order for incapacity 
benefit to be paid, a scheme member must meet the policy definition of incapacity. For the 
first year of a successful claim, L&G will pay full monthly benefit based on an own 
occupation of incapacity. However, once a claim has been in payment for 12 months, 50% 
of the monthly benefit will be paid in line with the suited occupation definition of incapacity. 
Ive set out L&Gs definition of suited occupation incapacity below:
Suited occupation means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury so that he 
is unable to undertake all occupations which we consider appropriate to his experience, 
training, or education.
The policy states that a suited occupation wont be considered inappropriate on the grounds 
that it pays less than the members own occupation or lacks the status or seniority of their 
own occupation.
When L&G accepted Mr Bs claim, this was based on it being satisfied that Mr B had shown 
he met the definition of own occupation incapacity  in other words, that his incapacity 
prevented him from carrying out the duties of his employed role. However, once the 
definition of incapacity switched to suited occupation, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
L&G to be satisfied that Mr B was incapacitated from carrying out any role which it 
considered appropriate, given Mr Bs training, experience and skills. Indeed, the policy terms 
allow L&G to require evidence to show that an insured member continues to meet the 
definition of incapacity. 
This means that I think it was reasonable for L&G to contact the doctors whod been involved 
in Mr Bs care to request evidence which would allow it to establish whether he met the 
suited occupation definition of incapacity. Its clear from the evidence that Mr B has seen a 
number of medical professionals and that different treatments have been suggested and 
prescribed. Mr Bs GP also appears to have been kept up-to-date with Mr Bs medical 
condition and has continued to issue fit notes. All of the medical professionals appear to 
broadly agree that Mr B had long Covid-19, which manifested in a variety of symptoms  
including pain, malaise and brain fog. 
L&Gs records indicate that it took prompt and reasonable steps to request information from 
the treating doctors. And when the evidence was received (which appears to have taken 
place over a period of weeks), I think it was fair and appropriate for L&G to review the 
evidence along with members of its clinical team. As our investigator explained, we arent 
medical professionals. So in deciding whether L&G acted reasonably, Ive relied upon the 
medical evidence provided by professional experts in their field.
As Ive explained, the medical evidence which was supplied to L&G set out Mr Bs symptoms 
and the treatment options and investigations which had been proposed to him. But I dont 
think it was unreasonable for L&Gs clinical team to conclude that the evidence didnt 
demonstrate whether or not Mr B met the policy definition of suited occupation incapacity. 
And on that basis, I dont think it was unfair for L&G to decide that it required Mr B to 
undergo external testing with an independent provider, as part of its overall consideration of 
the claim. Nor do I think there is anything to suggest that L&G didnt consider up-to-date medical evidence at this point in time, alongside the medical evidence provided by Mr Bs 
doctors. Whilst I accept Mr Bs point that evidence he submitted in September 2022 wasnt 
acknowledged, I can see from L&Gs internal records that this evidence was received; added 
to Mr Bs file and considered by L&G as part of its claim consideration.
I appreciate Mr B had concerns about the external provider and the suitability of the CPAD 
test in particular. But often, as part of ongoing income protection claim reviews and 
assessment, insurers will appoint independent medical examiners to assess claimants and 
their fitness to work. I dont generally think this is unreasonable or inherently unfair. And 
based on the information L&G was sent prior to its investigation into Mr Bs complaint, I dont 
think there was enough evidence from Mr Bs former or current treating doctors to indicate 
that a CPAD assessment would be either unsuitable for or detrimental to, Mr Bs condition. 
So I think it was fair for L&Gs clinicians to draw the conclusion that there was insufficient 
evidence to show that Mr B should be precluded from undertaking a CPAD assessment. 
There appears to have been no explicit statement that such an assessment would be 
unsuitable for Mr B prior to the consultants letter, which L&G went on to review following its 
final complaint response.
On that basis, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably find that L&G acted unfairly when it 
told Mr B it would require him to undergo a CPAD assessment.
Mr B clearly feels strongly that L&G used intimidating and threatening behaviour during its 
correspondence with him. Ive thought carefully about this. I can understand that when Mr 
Bs employer told him that benefit could be suspended if he didnt undergo a CPAD 
assessment, he may have felt worried and intimidated. But having read all of L&Gs 
correspondence both with Mr B and with his employer, I dont find there was any 
inappropriate use of language or behaviour. As Ive said, L&G is reasonably entitled to be 
satisfied that Mr B continues to meet the policy definition of incapacity in order for his claim 
to be paid. Part of its continued assessment of continuing incapacity was the request for a 
CPAD assessment. The policy terms allow L&G to terminate benefit if it considers a 
policyholder has delayed producing satisfactory evidence of their entitlement to payment.  
So this was an option which was open to L&G if it concluded Mr B had caused delays in 
producing evidence it required. However, it ultimately decided against suspending benefit at 
this time and so I dont think I need to consider this point any further.
Im aware that Mr B disputes that the external provider made attempts to contact him to 
arrange a CPAD assessment. It isnt clear whether the provider did make attempts to contact 
Mr B in the autumn of 2022. But even if it didnt, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
outcome of Mr Bs complaint. Thats because from all Ive seen, I think its most likely Mr B 
wouldve declined to undergo the assessment even if the provider had gotten in contact with 
him. I say that based on the concerns about the nature of the assessment and the potential 
impact on his health which Mr B has consistently maintained. 
Mr B has also stated that he believes L&G should reimburse him for the costs associated 
with obtaining the consultants opinion. However, it isnt clear that he has raised this with 
L&G or that it has considered this request. So I make no finding as to whether L&G should 
cover these costs or not. Its open to Mr B to submit an invoice to L&G for its consideration. If 
Mr B is unhappy with the outcome of such a consideration, he may be able to make a new 
complaint about that particular issue.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr Bs position, I dont think L&G treated him 
unfairly up to and including the point at which it issued its final response to his complaint. 
This means I make no award against L&G.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman