DRN-4222027
The complaint
Mr G is complaining that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost in scam.
What happened
Mr G has a current account with HSBC.
In March 2023 Mr G was contacted by a scammer pretending to be from the Ministry of 
Justice. The scammer told Mr G he would be deported if he didnt pay a penalty fine for not 
paying the correct taxes.
The scammer told Mr G to open an account in his own name with an electronic money 
institution (EMI.) He asked Mr G to pay some money into this new account from his account 
with HSBC. Mr G made two payments of £800 and £545 to the new account using his HSBC 
debit card, and he also made some online transfers to the new account from an account with 
another bank. 
Once the payments arrived in Mr Gs new account, Mr G transferred them to the scammer. 
The scammer told Mr G the payments would be refunded to him after an hour. When this 
didnt happen, Mr G realised hed been the victim of a scam. He contacted HSBC (along with 
the EMI and his other bank) to explain what had happened.
HSBC didnt agree to refund Mr G for the payments hed made. They said that Mr G had 
authorised the payments, and there was nothing suspicious or out of character about them 
at the time that should have alerted them to intervene. And as the payments from HSBC had 
been made to an account with an EMI, and the scammer had taken the money from there, 
they thought Mr G should direct his complaint to the EMI.
Mr G didnt agree with HSBCs response and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into things but didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong  so he didnt think they 
should refund the money Mr G had lost to the scammer. Mr G didnt agree, so his 
complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn about what happened to Mr G. As the victim of a scam, I fully understand 
why Mr G would feel he shouldnt lose out. But I dont think I can fairly say that HSBC should 
refund the money Mr G lost in the scam. Ill explain why.
As the investigators explained, it looks like Mr Gs other bank refunded the payments hed 
made by online transfer under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM code)  but 
these particular provisions dont apply here as the CRM code doesnt cover debit card 
payments.
Its not disputed that Mr G authorised the debit card payments from HSBC into his new 
account with the EMI. And HSBC have a duty to act on Mr Gs instructions.
But in some circumstances a bank should take a closer look at the circumstances of the 
payments  for example, if the transaction is unusual, or looks out of character or suspicious. 
And if so, the bank should intervene, usually by not immediately authorising the payment, 
and contacting the customer directly.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances here and I dont think there was anything 
suspicious or unusual about the payment which should have alerted HSBC to intervene. The 
payments were made using Mr Gs debit card and were authorised by him. They were being 
made to a well-known EMI, so there wouldnt have been anything immediately suspicious 
about the recipient of the payment. They werent for what wed generally consider to be 
significant amounts, nor were they out of character for the way in which Mr G generally used 
his account. As the payments were made online through the EMI, and not through HSBC, 
HSBC didnt have contact with Mr G when he made the payment, in order to identify the 
scam.
Overall, I dont think HSBC were unreasonable to authorise the payments without 
intervening on this occasion. 
Mr G contacted HSBC shortly after he realised the scam had taken place. Hes mentioned 
that the funds dont show as being deducted from his account until the next day, so he thinks 
HSBC should have been able to recover the payment. But although there is often a delay in 
card payments showing on an account, the records show the payments were processed and 
the funds were actually credited to (then moved on from) Mr Gs EMI account before he 
contacted HSBC about the scam. 
In any event, because the payments were made with Mr Gs debit card, they couldnt be 
recalled in the same way that an online transfer sometimes can be. Its possible to dispute a 
debit card payment through a process called chargeback, which can sometimes be 
attempted if something has gone wrong with a debit card purchase, subject to the relevant 
card schemes rules. But I dont think that would have been successful here, because 
nothing went wrong with the debit card transactions - the payments Mr G authorised online 
through the EMI arrived in his EMI account successfully. So, I dont think there was anything 
HSBC could reasonably have done, at that point, to retrieve Mr Gs money.
Im really sorry to disappoint Mr G, and Ive no doubt this has been a very distressing 
experience for him. But I dont think HSBC could reasonably have done any more here to try 
to prevent the scam, or to recover Mr Gs money once they were aware a scam had taken 
place. So, Im not going to ask them to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman