DRN-2541007
The complaint
Miss S complains about the way Foundation for Credit Counselling trading as Stepchange 
administered a Debt Management Plan (DMP) she had entered. She says it didnt make 
payments to some of her creditors and she wants to know how this happened.
What happened
Miss S tells us that she received statements about her DMP from Stepchange which showed 
zero balances against the names of some of her creditors. She says this led her to believe 
that these debts had been fully repaid. She says shes now found out that Stepchange 
hadnt been making payments to these creditors. And it will now take her longer to clear 
these accounts. Which in turn she feels will adversely impact her credit record. Miss S states 
that her health has been greatly affected.
Stepchange told us that it had become aware in late 2017 that one of the collection agents  
a business Ill refer to as M - to whom payments through the DMP were being made was 
no longer acting for the creditor. It said it had notified Miss S that the payments to M were 
being placed on hold. And it said it had advised her to contact M to see if it was still dealing 
with the account. Or if it had been transferred elsewhere. It said that Miss S hadnt provided 
any further information. Stepchange explained that the payments which would otherwise 
have been sent to M were redistributed to her other creditors.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that due to 
a change in collection arrangements Stepchange had notified Miss S that payments to M 
were on hold until other arrangements were notified. He felt she was aware of this.
Miss S didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss S would be disappointed to learn that debts which she thought had 
been repaid were still outstanding. And Im sorry to learn that this has added to her worries 
on top of the health issues shes experienced. I can see that shes made considerable 
progress in reducing the debts which are part of the DMP.
As is often the case its rather easier to see whats probably happened with the benefit of 
hindsight than it wouldve been to understand it at the relevant time.
In September 2017 Stepchange was notified by M that it was no longer dealing with two 
accounts which were part of Miss S DMP. Stepchange notified Miss S of this by email.
 
Later, she contacted it in early November 2017 when she saw the accounts were showing in 
red on her account. Stepchange notes show that Miss S was advised to contact M to 
determine if it was still collecting the debts or if they had been transferred elsewhere. She 
was advised that the payments could be restored to the DMP when the new arrangements 
were notified. Theres nothing recorded to show that Miss S supplied any updated 
information about these accounts, which remained unpaid.
Miss S has indicated that she didnt receive the emails. But Ive seen the entry which shows 
they were sent by Stepchange. And as she was in contact with it in early November 2017  
and the notes show she was told that these accounts were on hold - I think she ought to 
have realised payments werent being made to reduce the relevant balances.
Im also aware that Miss S has told our investigator that during various phone calls 
Stepchange had confirmed the accounts had been cleared. Unfortunately due to the 
passage of time the recordings of the phone calls to which Ive referred above arent 
available. And whilst Im not doubting what Miss S believes she was told, the contact notes 
indicate that Miss S was requested to contact M  and update Stepchange. But theres no 
corresponding notes to indicate that Stepchange advised her that the account had been 
cleared.
The terms of the DMP agreement also require Miss S to notify Stepchange of any change in 
details relating to payments. And Ive noted that other payments on the DMP were later 
subject to changes. Miss S also contacted Stepchange to try to add another payment to her 
DMP in 2019. So Im satisfied she was aware of the need to keep Stepchange updated 
when her situation changed.
Stepchange has stated that once a debt falls off a DMP it isnt visible on the system and 
wouldnt be discussed at annual reviews. Equally, I can see from Miss S point of view why 
the statement balances showing zero might lead her to believe that accounts had been 
settled. But Stepchange has explained that it has to keep the accounts on the statements to 
show the previous payments that have been made. 
I think the most likely explanation is that theres been a misunderstanding and that Miss S 
has assumed that payments were being made to all the relevant creditors. I dont think it 
would be helpful to try and allocate any blame. But I dont find that Stepchange has made 
any mistake as it informed Miss S of the information it required to restore payments. And that 
detail wasnt provided.
The effect of whats happened is that some of Miss S creditors have been paid more than 
would have happened if the missing debts were being paid. This means that those debts 
are likely to be repaid quicker than originally anticipated.
 
Now that the situation has been explained, Stepchange has advised that the DMP can be 
adjusted to take in the debts which were overlooked if that is what Miss S wishes. But Miss S 
has indicated that she has suspended payments to Stepchange pending the outcome of this 
complaint. Its entirely a matter for Miss S how she manages her finances. But given her 
concern about the effect on her credit file  its likely that unless alternative means of 
repayment are made that this will have an adverse impact on it.
Ive not been supplied with a copy of Miss S credit file. So Im not sure what is presently 
recorded. On the assumption that the relevant accounts have defaulted this would remain for 
six years from the date of defaults. Bearing in mind that payments ceased in September 
2017, Id have expected a default to have been applied during the early part of 2018. Its 
open to Miss S to add a notice of correction which is a means by which she can explain the 
circumstances relating to any adverse entry.In summary, I empathise with the disappointment that Miss S experienced when realising 
that some of her debts hadnt been paid as anticipated. Ive not seen anything to show that 
this has resulted in any financial loss to her  as the monthly payments she made were 
distributed amongst other debts. Consequently, these will be repaid quicker that would 
otherwise have occurred.
Im not upholding the complaint as I dont find that Stepchange did anything wrong in the 
circumstances. It notified Miss S that payments to M were no longer being made and that it 
would require further details if they were to be reinstated. As these werent provided, I feel 
that Stepchange was correct in redistributing payments amongst other creditors.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman