DRN-2429590
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Pockit Limited didnt send her a new account card which meant she 
was unable to access her money. She also complains that Pockit didnt respond to her 
requests for help in accessing her money.
What happened
Mrs O says she didnt receive a new account card when her previous one expired in 
November 2019. She says in March 2020 she needed access to her money and was unable 
to use online access and made numerous calls to Pockit about the problem. Mrs O says she 
sent a number of e-mails to Pockit without response and was unable to use the money for 
enabling her mother to return to the United Kingdom.
Pockit says Mrs O couldnt use online banking as the card had expired and says it offered 
£25 compensation, but Mrs O said she wanted £100 compensation.
Mrs O had brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought Mrs O had tried to contact Pockit since March 2020 and didnt receive a 
response until August 2020. The investigator thought Mrs O had been caused inconvenience 
and thought she should be paid a total of £100 compensation and that Pockit should pay 
interest on the account balance at 8% from March 2020 until she was able to access the 
money. The investigator also recommended Pockit refund any account fees during that 
period.
Pockit doesnt accept that view and in summary says the compensation recommended is 
excessive and that there is no evidence of contact until June 2020, just Mrs Os notes of the 
calls.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint for the reasons I 
will explain but I have come to a slightly different view to the investigator about how matters 
should be put right.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions and can see that they make clear that a 
new card will not be issued if the account hasnt been used in the previous two months, but 
an e-mail will be sent about account options. Pockit hasnt provided me with a copy of that e-
mail or told me if it was sent. And I think that Mrs O ought to take some responsibility for 
what took place as, in line with the terms and conditions, it was up to her to tell Pockit if she 
wished to continue with the account or ask it to pay her the balance.
I appreciate Pockit says Mrs O hasnt provided evidence of her attempts to contact it by 
telephone from March 2020. But Im satisfied Mrs O has told us she tried to contact Pockit 
from March 2020 onwards but was unable to speak to it and has provided us with a schedule 
of those attempts as well as the e-mails she sent it. Im satisfied that Pockit didnt answer 
those e-mails apart from acknowledging some of them until August 2020 and I have no 
reason to doubt what Mrs O says that she called Pockit but couldnt speak to anyone about 
the issue. 
I have no doubt Mrs O was caused distress and inconvenience about what took place and I 
have no doubt spent time trying to call Pockit and in writing the e-mails to it. I appreciate the 
difficult circumstances at present, but Im satisfied that Mrs O should not have waited so long 
for access to her money or to speak to someone about the problem.
I appreciate Pockit says the investigators recommendations about compensation were 
excessive, but I disagree with that view. I accept that Mrs O wanted urgent access to her 
money and for the reasons I have explained I accept she was caused distress and 
inconvenience.
I understand the reasons why the investigator recommended that Pockit pay 8% interest on 
the length of time Mrs O was unable to access her money. But I think the clearer approach 
would be to award an overall compensation amount that takes that into consideration. I say 
that as I dont know when Mrs O wished to access her money and how much of it she 
wished to give to her mother. I also think it difficult to be sure when Mrs O could have had 
access to her money even if she had spoken to Pockit in March 2020 taking into account 
that a new account card had not been sent in line with account terms and conditions.
Putting things right
I intend to order that Pockit pay Mrs O a total of £250 compensation which I think is fair and 
reasonable and also fairly takes account of the length of time this issue took to sort out and 
that during that time Mrs O had been charged an account fee. It is not clear if Pockit has 
paid Mrs O the £25 compensation it offered her, but I make clear that the total award is £250 
and so it should pay her her £225 if it has already paid the £25. I also think it a more 
appropriate award than paying 8% interest for the reasons I have explained and find the two 
figures would be broadly the same in any event.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Pockit Limited to pay Mrs O a total 
of £250 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman