DRN-4360647
The complaint
Mr H complains that features he paid for on a car he has financed through an agreement 
with Tesla Financial Services Limited, who Ill call TFS, are not available. He says that the 
agreement was therefore misrepresented to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
If Mr H was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a 
significant reason why he entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to him.
Here Mr H paid £3,400, plus interest on the credit, for an advanced autopilot package. I 
can understand he wouldnt have agreed to pay that if he had understood that some features 
of that package would not be available until new vision technology was activated. 
But in order for me to decide if theres been a misrepresentation I have to consider if Mr H 
was provided with a false statement of fact that induced him to enter into the agreement: I 
dont think that was the case. I say that because I can see he was sent an email ahead of his 
purchase that explained the loss of functionality and asked for his approval. The email said:
We are taking the next step in Tesla vision. Your vehicle now fully relies on camera vision to 
measure distance to nearby objects, deliver active safety features, and provide Autopilot and 
Full-Self Driving Capability. This new approach enables improved visibility, better object 
detection, and greater abilities for Autopilot in the future. With this move, your Model 3 is no 
longer equipped with ultrasonic sensors, which will temporarily impact some features. Learn 
more.
The learn more link took Mr H to a more detailed description of the features that would be 
temporarily impacted and said:
For a period of time during this transition, Tesla Vision vehicles that are not equipped with 
USS (ultrasonic sensors) will be delivered with some features limited or inactive, including:
Autopark: automatically manoeuvres into parallel or perpendicular parking spaces.
Summon: manually moves your vehicle forward or in reverse via the Tesla app.
Smart Summon: navigates your vehicle to your location or location of your choice via 
the Tesla app.
It may well be the case that Mr H didnt read this information, but he did accept the changes 
by clicking the box asking to proceed with delivery. I dont think the information contained in 
the learn more link was hidden. That information was detailed and contained further links to 
frequently asked questions. I can understand it wouldnt have been included in the main 
body of the message as to do so, in my opinion, would have made the statement more 
difficult to understand. 
So, I dont think a false statement of fact was made and I dont think the agreement was 
misrepresented to Mr H or that TFS need to take any further action.
Mr H is also concerned that the Automatic Lane Change is not automatic as it requires 
human intervention to activate the indicator first. Hes subsequently explained to us that 
having read the literature again it does say the car changes lane automatically when the
driver operates the indicator. Im not therefore persuaded that the car was misrepresented 
on that basis either as I dont think I have sufficient evidence a false statement was made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman