The complaint
Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
in 2002. 
What happened
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. They said that Ms S wasnt eligible 
for the PPI as she was aware of a medical condition in the 12 months before the start of the 
credit agreement for which she got advice, treatment or counselling from a doctor.
Barclays didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms S case. 
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms S says she was diagnosed with asthma in the early 1970s. She says that although the 
condition appeared to be managed by the time she bought the PPI, shed had an X-ray for 
the condition, and received treatment for it, in the 12 months before the start of the credit 
agreement. 
Ms S explained that the X-ray and treatment werent for a related condition diagnosed 
several years after the sale, as Barclays suggests might be the case. Rather, they took place 
in the 12-month period set out in the policy terms. 
The adjudicator found that, under the policy wording, Ms S wasnt eligible for the PPI as a 
result.
Even if I didnt take into account the issue of Ms S eligibility  or otherwise  for the PPI, I 
think there are other grounds on which I should uphold the complaint in any event.
I say that because Barclays should have given Ms S clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so she could weigh up for herself if it was right for her. That 
included telling Ms S about the exclusion clause relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
for which she got advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor in the 12 months leading 
up to the start of the credit. 
DRN-1549576I cant see that Barclays pointed this out to Ms S and I think it would have made a difference 
to her decision to take the PPI given the medical history Ive already mentioned.
I think this, even in itself, is reason for me to find that the PPI was mis-sold and to require 
that Barclays puts things right for Ms S.  
Putting things right
Barclays should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Ms S would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt
been added to it.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Ms S owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her. Barclays can also take off anything already paid to 
Ms S for high levels of commission and profit share.
B. If  when Barclays works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI 
Ms S paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays should also pay simple interest
on the extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S
would have owed Barclays something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a
year.
C. Barclays should tell Ms S what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding the complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put 
things right for Ms S as explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman