DRN-3504387
The complaint
Mr S complains that Allied Irish Banks Plc (AIB), unfairly turned down his claim under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr S is represented by a professional representative 
(PR).
What happened
In May 2012 Mr S along with his wife agreed to purchase membership of a timeshare from a 
company I will call T. The documentation I have seen, a Membership Application Agreement, 
is dated 22 May 2012 and records that payment is due on 11 June. There was a joining fee 
of £3,000 which Mr S paid using his AIB credit card and an enrolment fee of £7,500 which 
was funded by a loan from another provider. The credit card statement shows that payment 
was made on 26 June. Although the product was purchased by Mr and Mrs S, the credit 
card account is in Mr Ss name so for simplicity in this decision I will refer to him as the sole 
purchaser.  
On 7 June 2018 PR submitted a claim under s. 75 CCA to AIB. It said that T had 
misrepresented the product and set out three misrepresentations as follows:
Mr S believed that he would be able to book holidays, but had not been able to do so.
He was told he would gain access to exclusive accommodation, but this was not the 
case.
He was told he could book holidays at a discount.
PR asked that AIB refund the total cost of the purchase. AIB questioned whether there was 
the required debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. PR provided details of the links 
between the payee and the timeshare supplier. AIB then said there was insufficient evidence 
to how that there had been misrepresentation. PR brought the complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs Handbook to take into account
the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
And when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having read and considered all the available evidence and arguments, I dont think this 
complaint should be upheld.
The S. 75 Claims for Misrepresentation
S. 75 of the CCA states that, when a debtor (Mr S) under a debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement has a claim of misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier that 
relates to a transaction financed by the agreement, the creditor (AIB) is equally and 
concurrently liable for that claim  enabling the debtor to make a like claim against the 
creditor should they choose to.
In this case it has been disputed as to whether the required agreement is in place as AIB 
has suggested the payment was made to another company. My understanding is that the 
company receiving the payment and T are connected and that means s. 75 has effect, but I 
make no finding on that point since I do not consider the claim succeeds for other reasons.
A claim for misrepresentation against T would ordinarily be made under s. 2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Others [2011] 
EWHC B24 (Ch) (Green v Eadie) that a claim under s. 2(1) of the MA is an action founded 
in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on 
which the cause of action accrued (see s. 2 of the LA).
Mr S made like claims against AIB under s. 75 of the CCA and the limitation period for those 
claims is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claims. As noted in paragraph 5.145 
of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice, AIB may adopt any defence that would have 
been or would be open to the Supplier, including that of limitation.
There is no difficulty in treating the debtor's rights under sub-s (1) as a like claim against 
the creditor. Since the creditor's liability mirrors the supplier's it follows that, to the extent that 
the supplier has successfully excluded or limited his liability, the creditor may shelter behind 
that exclusion or limitation.
So, this means that Mr S had six years from the date on which the causes of action accrued 
to make his s. 75 claim.
The date on which the causes of action accrued is the point at which Mr S entered into the 
purchase and credit agreements. I say this because the Letters of Claim and Complaint say 
that he entered into the purchase agreements based on the alleged misrepresentations of T.
It is a moot point as to whether the claim was made in time. The original documentation was 
signed in May, but payment was not due until June and arguably the contract was not 
completed until payment was made. Rather than explore this further I have proceeded on 
the basis the claim was made within six years. I have done so on the basis that I believe it 
fails on its merits and so the matter of limitation does not determine the outcome of the 
complaint. As such I make no finding on the issue of whether the claim was made in time.
MisrepresentationMisrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to 
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to 
enter into the contract.
PR say that Mr S believed he could book holidays with T, but I have seen nothing to show 
that this was the case. The documentation shows that the purchase entitled him to book 
accommodation in the season set out in the agreement. Other than the letter of claim which 
make the assertion that Mr S had not been able to book holidays I have seen no supporting 
evidence. 
Mr S says that he was told that accommodation would be of a luxury standard and that 
wasnt the case. I think the standard of accommodation is a subjective matter and Ive not 
been provided with sufficient information to persuade me that a false statement was made 
about the quality of the accommodation.
Mr S says he was told the resort was exclusive and could only be used by members. Im not 
persuaded I have been provided with evidence that other members of the public were 
allowed to use the resort. 
Quite simply, PR has not supplied any detail in support of the claim and so, I dont think 
theres evidence the timeshare agreement was misrepresented to Mr S, and I dont think AIB 
was unreasonable in rejecting the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman