DRN-2069597
The complaint
Mr A complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited.
 
What happened
In September 2016 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into an agreement with MBFS. 
The agreement came to an end in September 2019.
Following an inspection of the car, MBFS asked Mr A to pay charges for damage. Mr A 
disputed the charges and raised a complaint. 
In response, MBFS removed the charges for a wheel key but said the charges for damage 
and for a missing wheel compressor had been correctly charged. 
Mr A was unhappy with the response and complained to this service. He says the car wasnt 
supplied with a wheel compressor and that the car was in excellent conditions when he 
returned it.
Our investigator thought the damage charges had been fairly applied. But he didnt think it 
was fair for MBFS to charge Mr A for the missing compressor because he was persuaded 
that this hadnt been supplied with the car.
Mr A said he agreed with the view, but he thought MBS should pay him compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
MBFS didnt agree with the view. It said the information provided by the manufacturer 
showed that the car was supplied with a tyre fit kit which included a compressor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that if there is damage which exceeds fair 
wear and tear, this is the consumers responsibility. Damage includes missing items.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA. These guidelines are used to 
provide a consistent approach to the assessment of damage when a car is returned.
Briefly summarised, the disputed damage relates to the alloy wheels and one of the tyres. 
Theres also a charge for a missing wheel compressor.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that the damage to the wheels and the tyre falls outside the BVLRA fair wear and 
tear guidelines and I think the charges have been fairly applied.
In relation to the charge for the missing wheel compressor, Ive carefully considered the 
evidence provided by both parties. Mr A has provided an email from the dealership 
confirming that a compressor would not have been supplied with the car. The dealership 
also provided a document showing the data card which showed the tyre fit kit wasnt 
applicable to Mr As car.
MBFS provided confirmation from the manufacturer which indicated that the car was 
supplied with a tyre fit kit including a compressor. 
On balance, Im persuaded by the evidence from the dealership. This is because the validity 
code U77 on the data card shows that the tyre kit isnt applicable. The parts system shows 
that the tyre sealant is supplied but not the compressor.
Ive taken MBFSs comments into account regarding there being a mismatch in the codes on 
the parts system, meaning that the part may have changed so is not being displayed. But 
this is speculation and the evidence as it stands suggest that the compressor wasnt 
supplied.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I dont think its fair for MBFS to charge Mr A for the 
compressor. The charges for the missing compressor should be removed. I think the other 
damage charges have been fairly applied so Mr A remains liable for these charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must remove the charges for the missing compressor. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman