DRN-3170313
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr L in his capacity as director of a limited company, MP (which 
I will refer to as the company). Mr L says that, in relation to taking out a commercial 
mortgage, the company suffered financial loss, inconvenience, trouble and upset as a result 
of poor customer service and delays on the part of Barclays Bank UK Plc. Mr L is asking 
Barclays to compensate the company for its losses, which he estimates to be about £18,000.
What happened
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents. Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the 
underlying case than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of 
arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail 
than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
Our decisions are published, so its important I dont include in this decision anything that 
might lead to Mr L or the company being identified.
I also note that Barclays has accepted there were some delays on its part and has offered 
compensation of £900 for this. Because the bank has acknowledged it made some mistakes, 
I dont need to analyse each and every event. What I need to determine is whether the 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, or whether there is 
anything further Barclays needs to do to put things right. 
Given all the above, I will provide only a brief summary of what happened. But I confirm Ive 
read and taken account of everything the parties have told us about this matter.
Briefly, in mid-2018 Mr L was looking to buy a property that was to be for mixed use  that is, 
part of it for commercial purposes with a lease back to the seller, and part for his own 
residence. The company was incorporated for the purpose of the transaction, with a third 
party guarantor for the loan. Mr L would be renting his residential accommodation from the 
company, as would the residential tenants. The initial purchase price was to be £1.4 million, 
which was later revised to £1.5 million. Mr L wanted to borrow £990,000.
I will not repeat the whole timeline of events, as this is set out in detail in the correspondence 
between the parties, and in the investigators letter dated 18 March 2021. But the initial 
application was made to Barclays in July 2018 (via a broker), and the purchase eventually 
completed on 13 December 2018.
Mr L says that, as a result of delays on the part of Barclays  he says there were delays of 
two months  the company lost the opportunity to receive rental income, and was caused 
distress and inconvenience. Mr L says Barclays documents were contradictory and 
confusing, some were sent in .pdf format and so couldnt be completed, and that, after he 
complained, Barclays took several months to provide him with its final response. 
Barclays has acknowledged there were some delays, but not to the extent Mr L has claimed. 
Barclays also says that this wasnt a straightforward transaction, because the different 
usages for the property complicated the way the lending facility had to be structured. 
Barclays offered £900 compensation for the delays which it agreed it was responsible for. In 
its letter offering this Barclays says the compensation is £500 for the 2 month delay and 
£400 for poor service. 
But the bank also said that there were delays by the solicitors and seller, for which it wasnt 
responsible. As a result, Barclays didnt think it was at fault for delays that were outside its 
control.
Mr L didnt accept this and brought the companys complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at what had happened but, after reviewing the timeline of 
events, he was satisfied the £900 was fair and reasonable.
Mr L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, reiterating his points 
about where he believes Barclays was at fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would first like to apologise to Mr L for the length of time hes been waiting for a decision on 
his case. There is a high demand for our service, which sometimes results in longer waiting 
times than we would like. 
After reviewing everything thats happened, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
This wasnt a straightforward transaction  it involved a commercial mortgage for business 
purposes, as well as residential tenancies, where, I note, Barclays was told tenants were 
already in occupation under informal tenancies. Quite rightly, Barclays needed to ensure 
there were no occupiers or legal encumbrances that could affect its security.
I see that by late August 2018 the solicitors still hadnt received any documentation from the 
sellers. This delay from the initial application in July 2018, clearly, cannot be attributable to 
Barclays.
Barclays did make a mistake in relation to information about the guarantor  telling the 
solicitors there was no guarantor, sending out incorrect documents about this, clarifying later 
that there was a guarantor but not sending the documentation out for this. Barclays has 
accepted it made a mistake about this.
In November 2018 the solicitors acknowledged the banks instructions sent on 14 August 
2018.  They were unhappy that the bank hadnt sent documents in Word format but had 
instead sent .pdf documents. But its up to Barclays to decide the format by which it sends 
documents electronically, taking into account the security issues in sending documents in an 
editable format such as Word.The solicitors clarified that the property was to be purchased in the name of the company, 
with Mr L occupying part of it as his personal residence, and there being a commercial lease 
of one floor to another limited company (unconnected with Mr L or the company). There was 
some back and forth between Barclays and the solicitors about this, because the bank 
needed to ensure that neither Mr Ls nor the commercial tenants occupation of the property 
would prejudice the banks security. The transaction was further complicated because the 
seller had an equitable lien over the property to the extent of the purchase price, which 
would have priority over Barclays security. In addition, there was a debenture and cross 
guarantee that had to be put in place, as well as the legal charge.
It wasnt until 10 December 2018 that Barclays had all the required information to enable the 
funds to be drawn down. Thats the point at which Barclays received a completed letter of 
variation. This was required because Mr L wanted the transaction fees to be deducted from 
the companys business current account, rather than debited to the commercial mortgage 
account, and so a letter had to be signed for that purpose. The funds were released and the 
transaction completed on 13 December 2018.
I agree with Mr L that there were some delays by Barclays and Im glad the bank has 
acknowledged that its service could have been better. Barclays, in its letter offering 
compensation, referred to a 2 month delay. But Im not persuaded this was two 
consecutive months where there was no action by the bank; rather it seems there were 
periods of delay which, cumulatively, might have added up to about two months.
However, I also note that, at the same time there were delays on the part of Barclays, there 
were also other issues outside the control of the bank  with solicitors and the seller  which 
also impacted on the progress of the transaction. In the circumstances, after taking into 
consideration everything Mr L and Barclays have said, and carefully reviewing the timeline of 
events, Im not persuaded Barclays is responsible for the expenses and losses Mr L is 
claiming the company has sustained. I think its unlikely, given the complexity of the 
transaction, that it would have been possible for it to complete in October 2018, particularly 
as the solicitors told Barclays at the end of August 2018 that they had yet to receive any 
documentation from the seller.
The complainant in this case is the company, not Mr L personally. The company is a legal 
entity in its own right but it is not a natural person. This means that I cant award 
compensation for distress caused to the company, as it cannot experience that. But I can 
award compensation for inconvenience caused to the director, Mr L, as a result of the banks 
delays.
Mr L is unhappy at the way Barclays dealt with the companys complaint. Mr L says he made 
his complaint in February 2019 and it took Barclays several months to respond. But 
complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, which means that I dont have any power to 
consider Mr Ls complaint about his dissatisfaction with Barclays about this particular issue.
Taking into account all the circumstances of this case, I think the compensation offered by 
Barclays of £500 for delay and £400 for poor service is fair and reasonable. I appreciate 
Mr L is likely to disagree, but if he doesnt accept my decision on behalf of the company, it 
wont be legally binding on the company or Barclays and the company will be free to pursue 
the matter in court, should Mr L decide to follow that course of action. Mr L might want to 
take advice from a solicitor before taking any legal action.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr L to decide if, on 
behalf of the company, he wants to accept the compensation of £900 offered by Barclays 
Bank UK Plc in full and final settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L on behalf of 
the company to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman