DRN-1741968
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H's complaint concern difficulties in accessing their on-line accounts with 
Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity International).
What happened
Mr and Mrs H experienced difficulties logging into their accounts. They contacted Fidelity 
and a member of staff checked for technical issues, confirmed access to the accounts was 
possible from Fidelity's end and made some suggestions as to how Mr and Mrs H might try 
to resolve the problem - for instance, clearing their browsing history. 
None of this worked, so a referral was made to Fidelity's technical team and a 
callback arranged. Unfortunately the callback wasn't made because the technical team 
mistakenly thought the problem had been solved as it could see that a secure message had 
been sent from Mr H's account in the interim. 
Mr H chased Fidelity and made a complaint. Fidelity responded by letter to offer  £50 for the 
failure to call him back, but the letter didn't really deal with the actual issue of access 
problems. Over the following months there was continued correspondence on the matter as 
Mr and Mrs H continued to be unable to access their accounts using their preferred 
browsers. However, no resolution was found as Fidelity couldn't identify any technical issue 
at its end. 
The matter was referred to this service, but our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion as Fidelity. He acknowledged that the access problems would've been very 
frustrating for Mr and Mrs H. But he felt that Fidelity had done all it reasonably could to try to 
help, given there were no apparent technical issues with its services. The investigator also 
thought that the £50 offered for the failure to call Mr and Mrs H back was fair. 
Mr and Mrs H responded to say 
It wasn't just their preferred browser that didn't work, Fidelity's recommended browser 
also didn't work.
Fidelity recommend not using Internet Explorer because of potential issues. Surely 
Fidelity should ensure that its recommended browser works?
They don't think that Fidelity repeatedly suggesting clearing their cache and browsing 
data is an appropriate response after it has been tested and found not to be a 
solution.
 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
As the investigator said, it is very frustrating when this sort of situation arises. But I'm 
satisfied that Fidelity has done all it can reasonably be expected to try to solve the problem 
for Mr and Mrs H. It's confirmed that it's been unable to identify any technical problems with 
its systems that could be causing the issue. And it's offered some potential solutions -
 clearing the cache, etc. - albeit I appreciate these haven't really been of any great help.
I know Mr and Mrs H have suggested that the problem might be solved by Fidelity having 
remote access to their computer. But given the potential security issues associated with this 
type of activity I think it's reasonable that this isn't something that Fidelity can do. 
I note that Mr and Mrs H have been able to successfully log on using a different browser to 
those which they initially tried. I understand this isn't ideal, but may represent a way forward. 
As to the £50 offered for the failure to call Mr and Mrs H back early on in the process, I think 
this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman