DRN-2917570
The complaint
Mrs C complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) decision to decline cover 
for her pet insurance claim. Mrs C also complains about incorrect information given to her. 
  
What happened
Mrs Cs pet dog was referred to a veterinary hospital for an elbow dysplasia operation. She 
says she asked the hospital what approval was required and they said she should obtain 
pre-authorisation from the insurer for any treatment. Mrs C says Fairmead told her they dont 
do pre-authorisation but she could phone them on the morning of the operation. She says 
she did this and got approval. The operation then went ahead and Mrs C put in a claim for 
the costs. Fairmead declined the claim on the basis the operation related to a pre-existing 
condition.  
Mrs C complained about the claim being declined and Fairmead responded and referred to 
the medical history which they said showed Mrs Cs dog had a pre-existing condition. They 
agreed with the decision to decline the claim. Fairmead said they do have a pre-
authorisation process which involves reviewing the medical history and the details of the 
potential claim to confirm whether the claim would be approved. Fairmead said, if Mrs C had 
sent this form with all the supporting documents, they wouldve declined the claim. They 
accepted Mrs C had been misinformed about the pre-authorisation process, and also there 
had been delay in dealing with her complaint, so they offered compensation of £50.    
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to   
Mrs C and Fairmead on 9 April 2021. Mrs C raised further points which led me to reconsider 
my provisional decision. So, I issued a further provisional decision on 3 June 2021. In my 
provisional decision I said as follows: 
The claim
My starting point is Mrs Cs pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and, under a heading What is not covered it says any pre-existing 
conditions and any claims for illness displaying clinical signs within 14 days of the 
commencement date. The policy defines a pre-existing condition as, Any condition 
diagnosed or undiagnosed showing signs, symptoms, manifesting or existing in any 
form prior to the commencement date; or any illness diagnosed or undiagnosed 
showing signs, symptoms, manifesting or existing in any form during the waiting 
period. The policy then defines waiting period as, 
A period of 14 days starting from the commencement date of the initial policy period 
during which an illness occurs or shows clinical signs or symptoms; this will be 
excluded from cover unless otherwise agreed by us. If you upgrade your policy from 
an Accident Only policy to any policy which includes illness cover, the waiting period 
will apply from the transfer date.
Mrs Cs policy started on 14 October 2018 so Fairmead say the waiting period under 
the terms and conditions lasted until 27 October. Fairmead believe the clinical notes 
show Mrs Cs dog showed signs of the condition during the excluded time frame. So, 
Ive looked into whether Fairmeads decision is fair and reasonable. 
I can see Fairmead have reviewed the clinical records - I think its a fair thing to do  
and its reasonable for Fairmead to rely on these notes as being a true, accurate and 
contemporaneous representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each 
consultation. Fairmead have relied on two specific notes in the clinical records. 
Theres one dated 6 December 2018 which says, limping sometimes the last few 
months, when she starts off for her walk. And, another note dated 24 October 2019, 
which says, O reports this limping has been going on for the last year but on/off 
some periods where worse than others but no more obvious than before.    
The evidence shows a contemporaneous note by a vet which refers to Mrs Cs dog 
sometimes limping over the last few months. This comes down to the interpretation of 
the term few months and whether Fairmead have taken a fair approach when taking 
this into consideration. I can see our investigator feels the note dated 6 December 
isnt clear and doesnt provide a definitive date for when the limping started. 
Fairmead say, a reasonable interpretation of the term few months is two months or 
more. And, for the limping to be treated as pre-existing, it needed to have started 
prior to 27 October. The difference between 27 October and 6 December is about 
five and a half weeks. While I agree with our investigator that the clinical notes dont 
provide a definitive date for when the limping started, there is a record which 
provides a timescale. And, I think the timescale suggests a period greater than five 
and a half weeks. 
My role is to decide whether Fairmead have applied the exclusion fairly and 
reasonably. Its clear theyve relied on the clinical notes and there is a record which 
refers to the condition which Mrs C later submits a claim for. I note Mrs C says she 
doesnt recall using the term few months during the visit in December 2018. She 
says she made reference to it being a short period of time and had only recently 
started at the time of the visit. She says, if she had to estimate a date for when she 
first noted her dog limping, then it would be early November. And, this would 
therefore fall after the 14-day waiting period. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C but this doesnt persuade me that Fairmead have acted 
unfairly. Its reasonable for them to rely on the clinical notes and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest the vets notes on 6 December are inaccurate or dont reflect what was seen 
and heard during the consultation. So, taking this all into account, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Fairmead to decline Mrs Cs claim.
    
I can see our investigator has referred to a note in the clinical records for a 
consultation which takes place on 25 September 2018. The note for this visit doesnt 
make any reference to Mrs Cs dog limping. Ive looked at the clinical records and 
agree this is the case. However, I cant say this completely suggests limping wasnt a 
pre-existing condition. This is because the note for the visit on 24 October 2019 
refers to the limping being intermittent. It might well be the case that Mrs Cs dog 
didnt display any signs of limping on that day. But, I cant conclude, on the balance 
of probabilities, that its more likely than not, Mrs Cs dog didnt have a pre-existing 
condition before 27 October 2018.  
I wish to reassure Mrs C that I have carefully considered her comments, but this 
doesnt change my decision. I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have 
specialist veterinary knowledge, so when considering such complaints, one of the factors I take into account is what the clinical notes show. And, thats what Ive done 
here. I note Mrs Cs point about the consultation on 25 September 2018 and I agree 
theres no reference to her dog limping. Im not persuaded though, from this alone, 
that this proves Mrs Cs dog didnt have a limp before 27 October 2018. I say this 
because the notes dated 6 December 2018 and 24 October 2019 suggest limping 
was a problem before 27 October 2018. As set out above, the note relating to 6 
December refers to Mrs Cs dog limping the last few months. The determination of 
whether Fairmead have acted fairly and reasonably balances very much on the 
interpretation of the term last few months. For the reasons I have already explained, 
I dont think its unreasonable for Fairmead to take the view that this term suggests a 
period greater than five and a half weeks. And, this is further supported by the note 
dated 24 October 2019 which refers to the vet being told Mrs Cs dog has been 
intermittently limping for the last year. 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the 
utmost care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is 
therefore reasonable for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and 
accurate representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. 
The clinical notes are a contemporaneous account of Mrs Cs dogs clinical history. 
And, the clinical notes refer to Mrs Cs dog limping. And, in view of the account given 
by the vet, I cant say Fairmead have acted unreasonably in taking the view this 
condition existed before 27 October 2018.  
Mrs C has my sympathy as I can see from her correspondence this has been a very 
upsetting event for her. And, I can understand why the declinature of her claim has 
caused her concern. My role is to decide whether Fairmead have acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining the claim on the basis it relates to a pre-existing condition. 
And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont intend to uphold this 
part of the complaint. 
 
Pre-authorisation
Mrs C says both she and the veterinary hospital were given pre-authorisation over 
the phone to proceed with the operation and that it would be covered under her 
policy. Fairmead do say they have a pre-authorisation process which requires a 
customer to complete a claim form and marking it pre-authorisation. They say they 
then carry out a review of the medical history to decide whether the claim would be 
approved. They say they didnt at any point confirm to Mrs C she would be covered if 
she went ahead with her dogs surgery.  
Fairmead dont have these calls so I cant listen to them to determine what was 
discussed. Mrs C says she was given clear and detailed instructions by Fairmead to 
proceed. Mrs C says, the fact that Fairmead no longer have the recorded calls 
demonstrates a failure of their own procedures. Mrs C agrees a claim form was sent 
to her but Fairmead told her to hand the form to the veterinary hospital  which she 
did. She says Fairmead never told her she needed to return the claim form to them 
prior to treatment. Mrs C says, while it might well be part of Fairmeads process now 
to have the claim form returned, it wasnt what she was told by Fairmead at the time.   
 
Looking at the process Fairmead follow when deciding whether to settle a claim, I 
dont think its unreasonable to expect their pre-authorisation process to be any 
different. 
The case notes provided by Fairmead show a claim form was sent to Mrs C in 
October 2019. I cant see this was returned or any clinical records provided to 
Fairmead prior to the operation. So, while I cant listen to the calls, on the balance of probabilities, I think its more likely than not, Fairmead wouldnt give approval over 
the phone without looking at the clinical records. 
I do take on board Mrs Cs comment that, had she been told during the phone call 
that there was a pre-authorisation process, then she wouldve followed this. She says 
she had the clinical notes so couldve provided these. And, had pre-authorisation 
been declined, then she wouldnt have gone ahead with the surgery and follow-up 
treatment at that time or to that extent. I understand Mrs Cs point here and agree it 
has caused frustration to be told later that there was a pre-authorisation process  
something she wasnt told during the phone call. I can see Fairmead accept there 
was an error in their service when they gave Mrs C misinformation about not having 
a pre-authorisation process and the delay in dealing with her complaint. They have 
offered £50 compensation. I agree Fairmead have made an error and agree they 
should compensate Mrs C. I dont however agree £50 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Given that Mrs C made enquiries about a pre-authorisation process and Fairmead 
accept she was given incorrect information, I believe there has been a loss of 
opportunity here. I say this because, had Mrs C been given the correct information 
about there being a pre-authorisation process, I believe she wouldve followed this 
and sought pre-authorisation. This wouldve required Mrs C to send the clinical notes 
and I think its more likely than not Fairmead wouldve declined pre-authorisation for 
the very same reasons they have given for declining the claim. This wouldve given 
Mrs C an opportunity to make an informed decision on the surgery and the follow-up 
treatment. 
Mrs C says the misinformation from Fairmead led to her going ahead with the 
operation and the physiotherapy treatment. She says the costs which have resulted 
are entirely down to Fairmeads error. Im not however persuaded this means 
Fairmead should settle the claim. Theres no evidence Fairmead gave Mrs C any 
assurances that her claim would be met. Mrs C did lose out on the opportunity to 
seek pre-authorisation. And, while a pre-authorisation decision wouldve helped 
guide Mrs C on her options, I havent seen any evidence which persuades me she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the surgery and follow-up treatment. In addition to 
this, it was Mrs Cs decision to proceed with the operation and follow-up treatment in 
the absence of pre-authorisation. 
I can see, and fully understand, Mrs C feels very strongly about the misinformation 
she was given about the pre-authorisation process. Such processes give customers 
some assurance about whether any treatment costs will be met and, importantly, 
allow them to make informed decisions about treatment for their pet. That hasnt 
happened here and Mrs C missed out on the opportunity to make informed decisions 
about her dogs treatment. And the level of costs she would be prepared to commit 
to, had the pre-authorisation process established her claim would be declined. 
I agree there has been upset and frustration to Mrs C knowing there was a process 
she couldve followed which would have helped her make such decisions. Fairmead 
say they have already paid £50 to Mrs C. So, in addition to the £50, I think Fairmead 
should pay Mrs C compensation of £250 to reflect the impact on her. This would 
bring the total compensation to £300.   
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs C or Fairmead my provisional decision was 
that I was minded to partly uphold this complaint. Fairmead havent responded to my provisional decision. Mrs C has replied and says 
Fairmead gave her verbal authority to proceed with the treatment. She says the fact that the 
calls arent available has an adverse impact on her complaint as it cant now be proven that 
they authorised Mrs C to carry out the treatment. Mrs C says, had she been told there is a 
pre-authorisation process and it was refused, she wouldnt have gone ahead with treatment 
costs of over £6,500 and wouldve looked at less expensive options.  
Mrs C says she hasnt received the £50 compensation from Fairmead. She feels this should 
be paid together with the additional £250 as well as the claim for £6,559.12.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision and copied above. If I havent commented on any specific point, its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
I do understand Mrs Cs frustration at the calls not being available as that would have proven 
what was discussed during the call. While its unfortunate the calls arent available, I still 
have to make a finding on this as it does form a central and important part of the complaint. 
As set out in my provisional decision, I have to consider, on the balance of probabilities, 
what I think is more likely to have happened than not. And, I dont think an insurer would give 
pre-authorisation to proceed with treatment in the absence of seeing the clinical notes. In 
this case, Fairmead will have needed to see whether the treatment related to a pre-existing 
condition and they can only do that by reviewing the clinical notes. Theres no dispute here 
that the clinical notes werent provided to Fairmead at this point, so I think its more likely 
than not Fairmead didnt give verbal authority to proceed with the treatment with a guarantee 
that the costs would be covered.  
I have taken on board Mrs Cs point about the steps she wouldve taken had pre-
authorisation been refused. I cant however say that this means Fairmead should meet the 
costs of the claim as theres no evidence they gave Mrs C authorisation to continue with the 
treatment on the basis the claim would be met by them. Mrs C has asked that I look at the 
poor administration on the part of Fairmead, their incorrect advice, their approval of 
treatment against their own policy and the missing evidence which she says supports her 
claim. I have looked at these points and they are covered in my decision. I agree there has 
been poor administration and incorrect information when handling Mrs Cs phone call and 
informing her there isnt a pre-authorisation process when in fact there was one. I dont 
however agree Fairmead gave approval or that the absence of the phone calls is supportive 
of Mrs Cs claim. 
I note Mrs Cs points about the compensation and agree Fairmead should pay total 
compensation of £300. Fairmead say £50 has already been sent by bank transfer and this 
was processed on 29 May 2020 so it shouldve arrived in Mrs Cs account within five working 
days of that date. Mrs C says she hasnt received this sum. If Fairmead maintain £50 has 
been paid then they will need to provide evidence to Mrs C to prove this has been paid. And, 
if they are able to do so, then they will need to pay an additional £250. I dont agree with  
Mrs Cs point about the claim settlement and, for the reasons set out in my decision, I wont 
be asking Fairmead to pay the claim.     
  
Putting things rightIve taken the view that Fairmead have provided incorrect information to Mrs C which has 
resulted in her missing the opportunity to make an informed decision. So, Fairmead should 
pay Mrs C total compensation of £300  this sum includes the £50 which has already been 
offered to Mrs C. Fairmead will need to provide evidence to Mrs C of the £50 already being 
paid. If they can, then they should pay a further £250 to bring the total compensation to 
£300. If they cant, then they should pay £300 to Mrs C. I feel £300 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the upset and frustration caused to Mrs C. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint. Fairmead Insurance Limited must pay 
compensation in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman