DRN-3104554
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was unaware that he no longer had a Defined Benefit (DB) Pension 
Scheme with valuable guarantees after Pensions Insurance Corporation (PIC) purchased it. 
He says PIC should have highlighted this and made the key features clear.
Mr H also said had the changes been pointed out to him, he couldve taken advice and 
decided how best to plan for his retirement.
Mr H also complains that he was not made aware that the value of his pension 
benefits upon retirement could differ from the quotes received pre retirement.
What happened
Mr H was a member of a DB pension scheme provided by his former employer. PIC bought 
out Mr Hs pension benefits under this DB scheme. His benefits were bought out under 
whats known as a Section 32 Buyout policy (created under section 32 of the Finance Act 
1981). Section 32 poliices are individual deferred annuity contracts where an insurance 
company, like PIC, then guarantee to pay the benefits the member had under their original 
scheme, at the members retirement age. Section 32 policies, once established, cant 
accept further transfers from other workplace pensions, or contributions from the member 
or their employer.
Trustees of DB schemes sometimes go down the Section 32  buyout route when the 
scheme is being wound up. It seems that Mr Hs former employers scheme was wound up.  
The policy document shows that Mr H was entitled to a deferred annuity of £12,238.13 per 
annum as at 20 September 2010, the winding up date. The policy document sets out the 
process for revaluating the deferred annuity at the retirement date.
At paragraph 14.1 of the section 32 policy document it says this under the heading:
Pension commencement lump sums and transfer values, transfers, assignment and 
forfeiture::
Maximum amount payable as a retirement lump sum: maximum permitted as a "pension 
commencement lump sum" for the Member under the Finance Act 2004 (or, if
higher, such amount as is protected for the Member on and from 6 April 2006). The 
conversion of part of the Member' s annuity into a pension commencement lump sum is 
subject to PICs agreement and in accordance with Policy Condition 4 and PIC's standard 
terms (as determined by PIC with reference to its documented actuarial principles, as 
revised from time to time). Where the Member wishes to convert part of his annuity into a 
pension commencement lump sum, he or she shall give at least one months notice of such 
election to PIC.
In January 2020 PIC provided Mr H with an estimate of his pension benefits as at 1 April 
2020. His benefits were adjusted to take account of early payment of the annuity. PIC told 
him the figures quoted were estimates based on current factors and would be recalculated 
at his final actual retirement date. It said it would pay his recalculated benefits upon 
retirement based on the option he selected, unless the benefits were more than 5% lower, 
in which case it would confirm the revised figures. 
Mr H completed the paperwork to take his pension from 1 April 2020, opting to take a PCLS 
and a residual annuity 
Mr H didnt end up taking his PCLS and residual annuity in April 2020. Instead he 
complained to PIC as he said he was unaware that the value of his pension benefits could 
differ from the quotation provided. PIC issued its final response on Mr Hs complaint in May 
2020. It explained that when it calculated and provided a retirement quote in advance of an 
actual retirement date, it was always estimated, and this was explained in the covering letter 
sent with the quote. It said that the figures were estimated using current factors available 
and would be recalculated when the final benefits were taken at the actual retirement date.
PIC also said that it told Mr H in the covering letter that it would contact him with revised 
figures if the figures decreased by more than 5%. As Mr Hs final benefits decreased by 
more than 5%, it said it emailed his Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) to advise of this. It 
apologised for there being a delay in providing this information, this being due to an 
administration error. It said the information sent also included the Schedule of Benefits and 
Policy Conditions that were sent to him at the time his DB scheme was wound up.
It explained that final pension benefits were confirmed at the actual retirement date when all 
of the most up to date factors were available. It said there were a number of different factors 
that were used to calculate benefits, including rates of inflation, cash commutation factors 
and early reduction factors (for retirements being taken before normal retirement age). 
PIC told Mr H if he wanted the actual finalised factors to be used, it was best to request a 
quote normally around the 15th of the month prior to the chosen retirement date. However, it 
was unable to guarantee this date, as factors could change at any time dependent on market 
conditions. 
Shortly afterwards, in May 2020, PIC wrote to members (including Mr H) to say that the 
Covid-19 pandemic had had a significant impact on financial markets and had reduced the 
value of some of the assets it held. So, it said, where a cash lump sum value was to be 
provided, as the value would be directly linked to the value of the assets held, the cash lump 
sum may be lower.  It said however, the amount of pension (before taking a cash lump sum) 
that it was expecting to pay was not affected by any changes in asset values. 
Mr H complained again to PIC in August 2020. He said he didnt take his annuity and TFC in 
April 2020 because his TFC and income dropped because of the factors PIC was using and 
underlying asset values. He noted that his quote to take his benefits in September 2020 had 
barely improved, even though the markets had recovered.
PIC issued its final response on this part of Mr Hs complaint in September 2020. It said it 
explained in May 2020 why the figures had dropped. It said that although his PCLS and 
residual pension had reduced, his annual pension was still not affected.
It said when it issued his retirement quotation in January 2020, it applied an early retirement 
factor applicable for his age. It said this meant that an additional two years worth of 
revaluation was added to the annual full pension amount. 
Further, it said when it came to settle his benefits a different method of calculation was used. 
It used figures at his date of leaving and revalued these up until his selected retirement date and then applied the early retirement factor as he was leaving early. It said this would 
explain the difference in the full annual pension quoted in January 2020 to the value quoted 
in May 2020.
It said the way in which PIC calculated benefits had changed to ensure it provided more 
accurate figures. It said the quotations issued in August 2020 and September 2020 had 
been calculated using the same method used when it calculated his settlement figures in 
May 2020. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into  Mr Hs complaint and concluded that PIC hadnt acted unfairly 
or unreasonably because it had explained to him in a clear and reasonable way how it 
would calculate and pay his benefits. She did not consider that PIC was acting unfairly by 
not providing a copy of its calculations which were complex and calculated by actuaries. In 
reaching this conclusion, shed taken into consideration that the  regulator appeared to 
have no concerns about the way PIC was managing section 32 policies, as far as this 
service was aware..Further, the values were not guaranteed, and PIC had made this clear.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
Mr Hs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not going to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
key features of the policy not made clear
I dont know what information the trustees of Mr Hs former scheme gave him when they took 
out the section 32 policy, when his OPS was wound up. The key features of the policy are 
made clear in the section 32 policy document, including that Mr H benefits are not 
guaranteed nor are they defined benefits. PIC says these were provided to me Mr H when 
his scheme was wound up. I can see that PIC, when asked, has provided details of the 
policy. So, I dont consider that PIC can be held responsible for details of the policy not being 
made clear.
In the correspondence exchanged, I consider that PIC provided Mr H (and his IFA) with 
enough clear and fair information about his section 32 policy to allow Mr H to take advice on 
his options. For example, it told him the quotes werent guaranteed, what factors were taken 
into consideration when calculating his benefits and about why there may be a reduction in 
the value of his PCLS. It also provided a copy of the policy document itself.
retirement quotes
Again, from the correspondence exchanged between PIC and Mr H, I can see that PIC has 
made it clear on a number of occasions that the retirement quote provided was not 
guaranteed.Paragraph 14 of the policy document explained the basis for calculating the PCLS, and that 
this was subject to PICs agreement and it would involve converting part of Mr Hs annuity to 
provide the PCLS and a residual annuity. The policy document said that it would be 
calculated using documented actuarial principles, which could be revised from time to time. 
Ive not seen anything to indicate that PIC wasnt applying these actuarial principles when it 
calculated Mr Hs PCLS and residual annuity. It was open to PIC to revise these principles. I 
have also not seen anything to indicate that the regulator was concerned about the actuarial 
principles PIC had in place and was using. So, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude that PIC 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it provided Mr H with lower quotations. I can appreciate 
why Mr H wouldve been disappointed to learn his quotes had gone down, but, I cant require 
PIC to pay him more, as I cant see that it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman