DRN-3583001
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as W, complains that it suffered consequential losses following 
the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc regarding management of the companys 
borrowing.
What happened
W had commercial lending from RBS. In July 2009, RBS transferred its management of the 
companys accounts to the banks Global Restructuring Group (GRG).
W complained to RBS in 2018 about the actions of GRG. The bank investigated Ws 
complaint as part of its GRG review scheme and made an offer of compensation to settle a 
number of elements of the complaint. The redress, for direct losses resulting from wrongly 
charged fees and costs of a security review, was around £40,000 plus interest. The 
company accepted the offer. However, the settlement also left W with the right to submit a 
further claim, for any consequential losses that had arisen from the points upheld by the 
GRG review.
In October 2020, the company submitted its claim for consequential loses. The company 
said the losses were as follows:
The loss of opportunity to sell the lease on a property because of forfeiture of the 
lease
Fees charged by consultants 
Professional fees for assistance in preparing its claim and earlier related work
W wanted the consideration of its claim to take account of both the GRG review outcome 
and the outcome of an earlier complaint which had been considered under the banks review 
of interest rate hedging products (IRHPs).
After reviewing the claim, RBS offered £2,000, plus VAT as appropriate, for professional 
assistance in preparing the claim. It didnt uphold any other part of the consequential loss 
claim. 
After its findings had also been considered by the Independent Third Party (ITP), which was 
the appeal stage of the scheme, the bank confirmed that the outcome of the consequential 
loss claim was unchanged.
W wasnt satisfied with the banks response to its consequential loss claim, and referred its 
complaint to this service. 
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator concluded that the bank had offered enough 
to settle the complaint fairly. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
This service is able to review Ws consequential loss claim in respect of the points 
upheld by the GRG review. But it wouldnt be appropriate for our service to look into 
the parts of the complaint that relate to the actions of GRG and were settled when W 
accepted the offer from RBS.
The investigator was unable to see any evidence showing a causal link between the 
losses claimed and the elements of the direct loss GRG complaint that were upheld 
by the bank.
The bank had agreed to pay no more than £2,000 in order to assist its customers to 
seek initial advice about whether they would have cause to bring a consequential 
loss claim. The investigator didnt think it unreasonable that the bank declined to 
cover any further costs, as it had explained it would only look to cover further costs if 
the consequential loss claim were upheld.
W disagreed with the investigators conclusions. Its representative made the following points, 
in summary:
The bank has fundamentally ignored the customers request to consider the 
combined effect of the IRHP review and GRG review in constructing a counterfactual 
timeline of events. This is incorrect and unfair.
The original claim for consequential loss following the IRHP review should be 
considered again, but this time in the light of the constraint on GRG to act more 
reasonably.
It should be considered whether it would have been reasonable for GRG to have 
provided more support to the customer. Absent the additional costs of the IRHP, the 
business would have been materially better off, and the behaviour of GRG would 
therefore have been very different, if indeed there would have been any need for the 
appointment of GRG. What W would like considered as part of the complaint is what 
actions GRG would have taken between November 2011 and November 2014.
The combined financial effect of the outcomes of the IRHP review and the GRG 
review should be considered, in the context of the rent arears at the time of forfeiture 
of the lease.
Documentation for the GRG review process said it may be appropriate to assess 
consequential loss claims based on the cumulative effect of both IRHP redress and 
the unfair actions of GRG. In Ws case, the bank appears to ignore this by saying that 
it will not re-examine claims that have already been considered and concluded under 
the IRHP Review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because the issues upheld in the GRG review have already been the subject of a settlement 
between the parties, the starting point of my decision is that W shouldnt have had to pay the 
sums refunded under that settlement. I wont be re-opening those matters. Ws complaint is 
now about Ws consequential losses.
The processes of the voluntary reviews
W says, through its representative, that RBSs assessment of consequential losses arising 
from GRG failures didnt follow the banks own stated approach  specifically, that it didnt follow the established approach of the GRG review regarding the cumulative effect of 
awards made under the IRHP and GRG reviews. 
I make no finding on this matter  on whether RBS followed its own established approach  
because this service has no powers to determine disputes over the processes of voluntary 
redress schemes such as the GRG and IRHP reviews. 
For the same reason, I cant consider whether any part of RBSs IRHP review or GRG 
review should be re-opened by the bank. The processes of the reviews are outside the 
scope of this service.
I am, however, able to consider whether the substantive outcome of the banks GRG 
consequential loss review is fair and reasonable. 
Provision of more support from GRG
Ws representative says that I should consider whether GRG would reasonably have 
provided more support to the customer. But in my view, this matter has already been settled 
between the parties.
W agreed to accept compensation for direct losses from the parts of the complaint upheld by 
the bank in the GRG review. The settlement agreement also left it open to W to bring a claim 
for consequential losses arising from the upheld parts of the complaint. The company was 
therefore able to bring a claim to the bank for consequential losses arising from the wrongly 
charged fees and costs of a security review. But W also agreed to release and discharge the 
bank from all other claims regarding the actions or omissions of GRG. This was a signed 
agreement between the parties, on the basis of which W was compensated.
By the time the case was referred to our service in 2022, the GRG complaint had therefore 
been resolved, with the exception of consequential losses arising from the wrongly charged 
fees and costs of a security review. It therefore wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to 
require the bank to pay any further compensation for any other actions or omissions by 
GRG.
Impact on the finances of the company and the opportunity to sell the lease
W argues that the combination of its losses resulting from the mis-sold IRHP and the actions 
of GRG (as upheld by the respective reviews) resulted in the company forfeiting the lease 
and therefore losing the opportunity to sell the lease.
I note that in RBSs outcome letter, the bank made an assessment of the combined effect of 
Ws GRG and IRHP direct losses, as determined by the respective reviews, on Ws 
consequential losses. There was a corresponding assessment in the ITPs outcome letter. 
Both the bank and the ITP came to the view that even if W hadnt suffered the combined 
losses, W would still have lost the opportunity to sell the lease, for other reasons. The bank 
and the ITP therefore concluded the banks actions didnt cause the consequential loses 
claimed.
In my own determination of the current complaint, I cant ignore that the complaint about Ws 
IRHP was concluded between 2014 and 2017, including any consideration of consequential 
losses. When the IRHP review outcome for W was agreed in 2014, W made no claim for 
consequential losses. However, the bank did consider Ws position within its determination in 
2017 of a consequential loss complaint brought by the owners of W, who had an IRHP 
themselves. Part of the outcome was that even with a better cashflow, W would have 
forfeited the lease anyway because of problems that arose from Ws usage of the site and other serious matters. This was the same conclusion as reached by the bank and the ITP in 
their assessment of the consequential loss flowing from the combined IRHP and GRG direct 
losses, as described in the previous paragraph. 
W disagrees with the bank about the reasons for the forfeiture of the lease, but it isnt 
something I can re-open now, several years after the IRHP complaint was concluded. In 
other words, in order to consider afresh the combined effect of the IRHP and GRG direct 
losses on Ws position regarding the lease, I would need to consider the facts and 
arguments about the other factors involved in Ws problems with the lease  in particular the 
issues regarding its usage of the site, irrespective of the rent arrears. As the impact of those 
other factors regarding the lease was part of the IRHP review outcome, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to re-open the matter now.
For these reasons it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to conclude that W lost the 
opportunity to sell the lease as a consequence of the banks actions. 
Consultants fees
I note that part of the claim for consultants fees is the same as in Ws GRG direct loss 
complaint, which wasnt upheld as part of the GRG review settlement.
Both RBS and the ITP considered the effect of combining the IRHP and GRG redress and 
both concluded that the consultants fees would still have been reasonably incurred by W in 
the absence of those losses. 
I havent seen persuasive evidence or arguments that RBSs actions unfairly caused W to 
incur the consultants fees.
Professional assistance with the complaint
The bank agreed at the outset to pay up to £2,000 for initial professional advice about 
whether customers would have cause to bring a consequential loss claim. I agree with the 
investigator that it wouldnt be reasonable to require RBS to pay for any other professional 
costs for bringing consequential loss claims which havent been upheld. If W now wishes to 
accept the banks offer, it should contact The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
I dont require the bank to pay any costs for professional assistance for earlier stages of the 
GRG complaint. The GRG review was designed to enable complaints to be made 
unassisted. W was of course entitled to obtain professional help, but that was the companys 
own choice and I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require the bank to meet the 
costs. Similarly, the ombudsman service is set up to consider complaints without 
professional representation, so I wouldnt make an award for professional help in bringing 
the complaint here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything further 
to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman