DRN-4187134
The complaint
Mr P says Bamboo Limited, trading as Bamboo Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about an 18-month instalment loan for £1,000 that Bamboo provided to
Mr P on 25 November 2022. The monthly repayments were £82.34 and the total repayable
was £1,482.13.
Mr P says the loan was not affordable, he had a gambling addiction and was trapped in a 
cycle of debt. Bamboos check ought to have shown this and it should have asked more 
questions. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She thought the checks were proportionate 
and Bamboo made a fair lending decision. Unhappy with that assessment Mr P asked for an 
ombudsmans review. He said there was a clear pattern of escalating debt on his credit file. 
He had taken out three loans for £15,000 in the previous 12 months, on top of being maxed 
out on his credit cards.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ps complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that              
Mr P would be able to repay the loan without experiencing significant adverse 
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr P wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Bamboo to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ps ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr P. In practice this meant that
the business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr P
undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Bamboo has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr P. It asked for his monthly income, his employment status and his residential status.
It completed an income verification check with a third-party and used national statistics to
make an assumption about his living costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his
credit history and his existing credit commitments. It asked about the purpose of the loan 
which was for debt consolidation and car repairs. Based on these checks Bamboo thought it 
was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate given the value and term of the loan and the cost of 
the monthly repayment relative to Mr Ps income. And I dont think there was anything in the 
checks that ought to have led Bamboo to make a different lending decision. Ill explain why.
Mr P declared a net monthly income of £2,460 and Bamboo verified it to be £2,480. He 
declared housing costs of £320 and from its credit check Bamboo calculated Mr P had 
existing credit commitments of £557 a month. It used national statistics to estimate Mr Ps 
living costs. It could see from the credit check that Mr P had £9,580 of debt and he was up to 
date on all his active credit. None of his credit cards were overlimit  on average he was 
using 85% of his limits. He had only opened one new credit account in the last six months 
and had no active payday loans. There were some historical arrears but I dont find these 
alone would be a reason to decline this application. 
So I dont think Bamboo was wrong to lend to Mr P.Mr P argues he had a gambling problem and was in a spiral of debt.  I dont doubt Mr Ps 
testimony that he was under financial pressure. But I dont think this was evident from the 
proportionate checks Bamboo completed. And given the details of this loan I dont think it 
would have been proportionate for Bamboo to have carried out the depth of financial review 
needed to potentially discover this. 
I have seen no evidence Bamboo acted unfairly towards Mr P in some other way. 
I note Mr P has an outstanding balance on his loan, I would urge him to contact Bamboo to 
discuss an affordable repayment plan. I would remind Bamboo of its obligation to treat Mr P 
fairly, and with forbearance. I am sorry this has impacted on Mr Ps mental health. If he does 
not have the support he needs Mr P could contact Step Change on 0800 138 1111 or 
National Debtline on 0808 808 4000 for advice about financial difficulties. And if he needs 
help to manage his gambling he could contact GamCare on 0808 802 0133.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman