DRN-4293500
The complaint
Ms S complains J D Williams & Company Limited (JDW) irresponsibly gave her running 
account credit agreements she couldnt afford.
What happened
In July 2018, Ms S applied for a catalogue shopping account with JDW. It was an open-
ended running credit account, and she was given an initial credit limit of £150. The limit was 
increased twice in the next month to £350, and again in the following three months to £500, 
£700, and £1,000. A further increase was made in July 2019 to a total credit limit of £1,400. 
In  March 2019 Ms S applied for another catalogue shopping account. It was an open-ended 
running credit account, and she was given an initial credit of £200. Over the next five months 
Ms Ss credit limit was increased to a total credit limit of £900.
In August 2019 Ms S applied for two further catalogue accounts. Both were open ended 
running credit accounts. And she was given an initial credit limit of £150 for each. There 
werent any further credit limit increases applied to one of the accounts but the other by 
November 2019 had three increases to a total credit limit of £500.
Ms S applied for further catalogue accounts in 2020, and these were opened with an initial 
credit limit of £150. One of the accounts opened in March 2020 had further credit limit 
increases over the following three months to a total of £900. Ms S applied for another 
catalogue account in April 2021.
Ms S complained to JDW in February 2023 to say the accounts had been unaffordable to 
her and in increasing the credit limits, JDW had made her financial circumstances worse. 
JDW said that they should have seen Ms S had a defaulted account when she applied for 
the catalogue account in April 2021. To put things right they looked to refund the interest and 
charges applied to this account and offset this against the balance she owed. Reducing this 
by £39.96. But for the other accounts JDW didnt agree theyd acted unfairly in advancing 
her credit.
Ms S wasnt happy with JDWs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said JDW needed to gather 
sufficient information that showed Ms S could afford the repayments. She said given the 
timeframe over which the accounts were opened and/or credit limits increased she hadnt 
had much opportunity to demonstrate that she could manage the accounts. She said JDW 
should have completed more thorough affordability checks. But as Ms S hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence of her financial circumstances at the time of the lending she wasnt 
persuaded JDW had acted unfairly in agreeing to lend to Ms S.
Ms S didnt agree, so has asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im not considering the catalogue account opened in April 2021 as JDW has already 
said that they shouldnt have lent to Ms S and have put things right by refunding the  interest 
and charges that had been applied. So I wont comment further on this.
Prior to granting Ms S with credit JDW are required to ensure she could sustainably afford to 
repay what she borrowed. There isnt a set list of checks JDW had to complete, but they 
needed to make sure the checks they carried out were proportionate in the circumstances. 
What is considered proportionate will vary, and in circumstances such as this where JDW 
increases the availability of credit over time, its more likely that more thorough checks will 
be required later in the lending relationship than at the beginning, to take account of the 
differences in the amount of credit being lent. And that the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself might demonstrate whether the lending is sustainable.
In deciding what was proportionate each time it extended credit to Ms S, JDW needed to 
take into account things such as (but not limited to): the amount of credit, the size of any 
regular payments (taking into consideration the rules and guidance in CONC relating to 
assumptions concerning running account credit agreements), the cost of credit and the 
consumers circumstances. 
JDW has provided us with information about the checks they did. They said the credit 
checks didnt provide them with any concerns. Ive looked at the information provided, and I 
can see that from around Sept 2018, it shows that thered been a previous default registered 
to Ms S credit file 14 months prior (around July 2017).  And that there had been a missed 
payment. Looking across the various accounts I cant see that there were any further 
defaults or missed payments recorded at the time of the other accounts being opened or 
credit increases applied. I can see that the number of active creditors increased over the 
time of the accounts from around 31 in Sept 2018 to 38 by November 2019. 
Ive also considered Ms S account history supplied by JDW.  I can see that Ms S even when 
the credit limits were applied didnt fully utilise the credit offered, and over the accounts 
generally used around 50% or less of the account limit. It wasnt until 2020 that Ms S 
utilisation increased. But it appears that Ms S was just making minimum repayments to her 
accounts. And the credit limits applied by JDW increased regularly over a short period to in 
some cases five times the amount of the initial credit limit.
I agree with our investigator in that the increases in Ms S credit limit were done before JDW 
could ascertain her ability to sustain the repayments. We havent received any information 
from JDW about Ms S income and living costs at account opening or at the time of the credit 
limit increases. I think for JDW to be able to assess whether Ms S could meet her 
repayments sustainably they needed to understand that shed sufficient disposable income 
to do so. And I dont think the checks JDW carried out were proportionate or sufficient to 
show this when they agreed to lend to Ms S.
But saying JDW should have done more before lending to Ms S doesnt automatically mean 
her complaint should succeed. I also need to be persuaded that what I consider to be 
proportionate checks would have shown JDW that Ms S couldn't sustainably afford the 
credit. As previously mentioned, there isnt a set list of checks that a lender should make, but 
bank statements will I think usually provide a good understanding of someones financial 
situation as they should show their income and essential outgoings. Our investigator asked Ms S to provide her bank statements for this reason, but she hasnt provided these. But she 
has given us her latest credit report. 
While I can see that Ms S had several short-term lending accounts that she paid on a weekly 
basis. All were paid and settled on time. I havent seen any adverse information that could 
have raised concerns to JDW before they agreed to lend to her. 
As outlined above while the number of Ms S creditors increased over the time of the 
application and credit limit increases, I cant see her financial situation had worsened at the 
time of the lending, as no further defaults or missed payments occurred. I appreciate my 
decision will disappoint Ms S, but without any other evidence to show her income and 
expenditure at the time of the lending I cant say that JDW acted irresponsibly in lending to 
her.
I understand that Ms S financial situation has since deteriorated, and she has sought 
assistance from JDW. Id expect JDW to act with forbearance and consideration in 
accordance with CONC to help Ms S with her current financial situation.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman