DRN-3699559
The complaint
Mr D complains Capital One (Europe) plc unfairly defaulted his credit card account. 
What happened
Mr D opened his credit card account in July 2019. In May 2020 Capital One agreed to a 
three-month payment holiday as Mr D was struggling to meet his monthly payments. 
In February 2021 Capital One informed Mr D that his card had been suspended. This was 
because Mr D had fallen behind on his monthly payments and the account had fallen into 
arears. In March 2021 Capital One asked Mr D to provide an income and expenditure form. 
In the same month it also explained that Mr D had permanently lost use of his credit card 
account. 
Capital One and Mr D agreed a payment plan in March 2021 at £288 a month for five 
months. In June 2021 it was confirmed Mr D had a period of breathing space and all interest 
and charges on his account would cease. At this point Mr D was told he could make 
affordable payments to reduce the balance if he was able to do so. In November 2021, Mr D 
made a payment of £288 payment, but then requested this amount be refunded as he had 
other financial commitments. Capital One informed Mr D if this was refunded his account 
would eventually default. 
In December 2021 a notice of default was issued to Mr D, followed by a statement of default. 
Mr D contacted Capital One explaining he didnt think the default notice was fair as he had 
been making payments whilst being given breathing space due to his financial situation. Mr 
D asked to make a payment and for the default to be removed, however, Capital One 
explained it would not do this due to its reporting obligations. 
During this period Mr D also raised a formal complaint about the handling of his account.  
Capital One reviewed his concerns and issued several responses. Overall, it found that it 
had handled Mr Ds account fairly and provided the necessary support when needed. 
Dissatisfied with Capital Ones response Mr D referred his complaint to this service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and found Capital Ones handling of the account to be 
reasonable. Mr D remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ds experience over the past few years and his financial struggles. I 
understand that having a default on his credit file will impact on his ability to obtain further 
credit in the future. Mr D says Capital One has acted unfairly. Based on the evidence I have 
seen; I dont think it did. Ill explain why. 
Looking at the account history, I can see Mr D began struggling with managing his account 
in late 2019. Mr Ds initial payment holiday was granted in May 2020. Mr D hasnt raised any 
specific concerns about the service he received during this period. And Im satisfied Capital 
One treated Mr D fairly here  it acted positively and sympathetically by agreeing a payment 
holiday when Mr D was in financial difficulty in line with the temporary Covid relief guidance 
issued to lenders by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).    
Following this payment holiday Mr D was required to continue with his contractual payments 
under the credit agreement. I can see that although some payments were made, by 
February 2021 Mr D had fallen behind on his payments and the decision was made to 
remove use of the card. 
Alongside the guidance issued by the FCA during the Covid pandemic, there is general 
guidance for businesses - such as Capital One, on how it should treat customers in financial 
difficulty. This guidance means Capital One had an obligation to treat Mr D sympathetically 
and with forbearance and due consideration. Following the decision to remove use of the 
card, Capital One and Mr D agreed a payment plan of £288 a month for five months. 
However, Mr D was unable to meet these payments. So, in June 2021 Capital One agreed 
to give Mr D a period of breathing space. During this time interest and fees were suspended 
on Mr Ds account, but he was still encouraged to make payments that were affordable for 
him. I am satisfied Capital One acted sympathetically to Mr D here, and it provided him with 
the opportunity to try and manage his financial situation and find a way forward. 
During the time Mr D was given breathing space, I can see he continued to struggle with 
making monthly payments to help clear the outstanding balance. I accept Mr D had tried to 
keep Capital One updated about his financial situation and that he had other commitments 
he needed to maintain. But I also think Capital One made it sufficiently clear to Mr D the 
impact of not making his payments would have, and that his account could default. This was 
done through its written communications and during conversations about Mr Ds account.
Mr D says he didnt miss seven consecutive payments so Capital One prematurely applied a 
default to his account. But looking at the relevant reporting guidance Capital One was in a 
position to report the account as in default after the account was in arrears for more than 
three months. So, Im satisfied that the account wasnt defaulted prematurely. 
Im also satisfied Capital One provided Mr D with ample support and time to try and bring his 
account up to date  Mr D was given a payment break in May 2020 and up until January 
2022 Capital One had tried to work with Mr D to try and clear his outstanding balance. It was 
not feasible for the account to continue as it was  the outstanding balance remained and 
there was no indication from Mr D that his financial situation was to materially change for the 
better. The account could not be left as it was indefinitely, and as Mr D had been informed, 
there was the potential for a default to be applied.  
It is clear Mr D would like Capital One to remove the adverse information that is recorded on 
his credit file. He says he made payments and was co-operative with Capital One and 
forthcoming with details about his financial situation. Ultimately, while Mr D did make some 
payments towards his credit card balance, Mr D didnt pay enough to meet the minimum 
payment required (as detailed on his statements). Capital One is obliged to accurately report 
the status of Mr Ds account. Im therefore not going to require Capital One to change the 
information it recorded. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with the outcome Ive reached on his complaint. But this 
final decision ends what our service can do for him in respect of this complaint. However, he 
can reject my decision and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.In response to the investigators view Mr D has suggested that Capital One provided him 
with the credit card irresponsibly  without it finding out his circumstances. For clarity, this 
decision solely relates to whether Capital One applied a default fairly which is the complaint 
Mr D asked this service to consider when he referred the complaint to us. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman