DRN-3574319
The complaint
Mr C complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as GeorgeBanco.com (George Banco) 
irresponsibly approved two loans in which Mr C stood as the guarantor for. 
What happened
George Banco approved two loans to a third party (the borrower) known to Mr C. Mr C 
acted as the guarantor for these loans. The two loans are summarised below:
Loan Date Capital Amount Term Monthly 
Repayments
One December 2017 £5,000 60 months £188 (approx.)
Two October 2018 £7,500 60 months £300 (approx.)
Mr C says he was pressurised into acting as a guarantor for these loans. He also says that 
George Banco never supplied information to him in paper form; and all of the transactions 
were completed over the telephone. Mr C says he was not informed of the risks of being a 
guarantor should the borrower not make the necessary repayments. 
I wrote to both parties setting out my provisional findings. I explained my provisional decision 
as set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by confirming that I wont be considering the merits of loan one. This is for the
reasons that our investigator correctly explained to Mr C. Namely that loan one was 
settled by loan two and Mr C made no payments towards it. Therefore, there was no 
financial loss on his part. Ill focus only on loan two.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending as well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good 
industry practice on our website. Ive used this approach to help me decide this 
complaint.
In this instance, as Mr C is the guarantor for a loan taken out by a third party; there 
are four questions I need to consider in making my decision. These are:
1. Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been 
able to
do so?
2. Did George Banco obtain Mr Cs properly informed consent before binding him to
the guarantee and indemnity agreement?
3. Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to
satisfy itself that he was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did 
not?
o If so, did it make a fair decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to 
do so?
4. Did George Banco act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ill deal with each in turn.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way?
George Banco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to the 
borrower. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time George Banco 
lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess the borrowers ability to afford the loans and repay them 
sustainably over their respective terms without causing them financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost 
of the credit, as well as the borrowers circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for George Banco to just complete proportionate checks  it 
must also consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair 
lending decision. This includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and 
ensuring repayments can be made without the need to borrow further or experience 
significant adverse consequences.
The fact this loan was secured by a guarantee and indemnity agreement also in no 
way lessened the obligations that were required of George Banco.
Ive reviewed the information that was provided to our service by George Banco and 
Im currently minded to say that it doesnt show George Banco acted unfairly when it 
approved the borrower for the loan.
The checks which George Banco did included searching the borrowers credit file; 
and conducting an affordability assessment. George Banco knew this loan was 
consolidating loan one; and from the checks Ive seen, it shows that it took into 
consideration the increased outgoings the borrower had as well as the increase in 
repayments. The credit file doesnt show the borrower was in such a financial 
position that it demonstrated that any further lending would be irresponsible. To the 
contrary; from what Ive seen (and from what Mr C has told us); the borrower hadnt 
missed payments (or certainly Mr C hadnt been required to make any); which 
George Banco could rely on as evidence of his ability to continue to provide further 
credit too. So Im satisfied that George Banco completed proportionate checks in this 
instance and made a fair decision to lend.Even if I were to find that George Banco did not complete proportionate checks; I 
dont have any information as to what further checks wouldve likely show. As Ive 
explained above the evidence I have seen suggests that the borrower had sufficient 
income to meet his outgoings and the repayment of this loan affordably.
So based on what Ive seen so far Im not minded to say George Banco acted 
unreasonably when approving the borrower.
Did George Banco obtain Mr Cs properly informed consent before binding him to 
the guarantee and indemnity agreement?
Mr C has made two arguments in relation to this question. The first is that George 
Banco did not provide him with the necessary documents, explained the 
consequences of the borrower not paying the loan; and conducted the process over 
the telephone. Mr Cs second argument was that he was coerced into acting as the 
guarantor for this loan.
Ive carefully considered both arguments and whilst I understand the strength of Mr 
Cs feeling on this point; Im not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to say Mr C 
did not give properly informed consent.
Ive been provided with the telephone calls that took place between Mr C and George 
Banco on the lead up to loan two being taken out. Ive also been provided the 
indemnity agreement which Mr C signed (albeit electronically).
Listening to the calls that took place Im satisfied that George Banco explained the 
key aspects of the role of guarantor to Mr C. This included discussing the details of 
what would happen if the borrower didnt make payments. Mr C is asked if he is in a 
position to make repayments should the borrower not and he confirms he is. The 
total amount of the loan is discussed and the fact this is repaying loan one. I think it is 
also important to note that Mr C has already agreed to be a guarantor for the 
borrower before; so its reasonable to assume he is aware of what he is agreeing too. 
The evidence of the call suggests this is the case here too.
George Banco has also said Mr C was provided with a copy of the indemnity 
agreement which sets out the roles and obligations on Mr C. This document is 
electronically signed on Mr Cs behalf; but Ive no reason to doubt he had agreed to 
this during the calls with George Banco. Im also satisfied it was more likely than not 
provided to Mr C.
So Im satisfied Mr C was reasonably aware of his role as a guarantor before he 
agreed to act as one for the borrower.
Mr Cs secondary complaint here is that the borrower coerced him into acting as the
guarantor for this loan (and loan one). Mr C says he was scared of the borrower; and 
felt obliged to act as his guarantor as they were work colleagues that Mr C relied on.
When considering complaints of coercion it is not enough to simply consider if 
George Banco was aware (or reasonably should be aware) of the coercion. I also 
need to consider if there was sufficient evidence that the coercion did occur before 
the loan was taken out to such an extent that to bind Mr C to it would be unfair.
Listening to the telephone calls between George Banco and Mr C; Im not satisfied 
there was evidence of coercion on the call. Mr C is heard to answer questions freely; 
and there doesnt seem to be any hesitation or concerns raised by him. I cant hear 
any forced answers or a third party in the background prompting Mr C to respond in a particular way. There is also no suggestion that Mr C wasnt the one agreeing to 
being the guarantor over the phone. So Im satisfied that there was no evidence 
which ought reasonably have made George Banco aware of any potential coercion.
Away from these calls Mr C has explained to our service that he felt obliged to act as 
a guarantor because the borrower was a work colleague who he relied on. He says 
he was also scared of the borrower. Whilst Ive no reason to doubt Mr Cs point of 
view; Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence which has been provided 
which demonstrates that coercion took place before the loan was agreed (either for 
this loan or loan one). Mr C has confirmed he paid the loan in full as he says the 
borrower was not going too and he did not want his credit file impacted. Whilst this 
may be true; Im not persuaded this is sufficient evidence to say the borrower 
coerced Mr C into acting as his guarantor in the first instance.
Our service has spoken to Mr C over the phone and got his information as well as 
providing any further supporting information he has in relation to this point. But in the 
absence of anything which suggests the coercion took place before the loan was 
taken out; Im not minded to say Mr C didnt give his informed consent.
Did George Banco complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C to satisfy 
itself that he was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? If not, 
would those checks have shown that Mr C would have been able to do so?
Mr C has also raised concerns that George Banco did not complete reasonable and
proportionate checks at the time the loan was taken out.
George Banco completed similar checks on Mr C as it did on the borrower. These 
included checking Mr Cs credit file; and completing an income and expenditure 
assessment. 
The credit file shows that Mr C was meeting his existing credit commitments well; 
and was maintaining his commitments on time. There are no negative markers in the 
last 12 months which would prompt George Banco to carry out further checks. The 
income and expenditure assessment takes into account the information on the credit 
file; and the information which Mr C provided to George Banco over the phone. 
These checks suggest that Mr C would have the sufficient disposable income to meet 
the repayments should they become due.
So based on this Im satisfied that George Banco completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks; and these showed the loan was affordable to Mr C should he 
be required to make repayments. As such it follows that Im satisfied George Banco 
acted reasonably when approving Mr C as the guarantor.
Did George Banco act unfairly in any other way?
Ive not seen any evidence that suggest George Banco has acted unfairly in any 
other way towards Mr C.
I asked both parties to respond with any further information or comments they wished to 
make. Mr C responded saying whilst he disagreed with the decision that he had no further 
information to provide. George Banco did not respond before the relevant time line.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand the strength of feeling Mr C has in relation to this complaint; in the 
absence of further information Im not persuaded to change from my provisional decision. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C but I can assure him I have carefully 
considered all of the information which has been provided.
It follows that Im satisfied that my provisional decision should remain. And as such Im 
satisfied that George Banco does not need to do anything further in relation to this 
complaint. This is for the reasons set out above but in summary, Im satisfied:
George Banco completed reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower 
before approving the loan;
Mr C gave his informed consent to be bound by the indemnity and guarantee 
agreement;
George Banco completed reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr C before 
approving him to act as a guarantor;
George Banco has not acted unfairly in any other way in relation to Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Everyday Lending Limited 
trading as GeorgeBanco.com.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman