DRN-3986200
The complaint
Mrs Y complains about the price shes been charged by Aviva Insurance Limited for a 
Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy.
What happened
In 2009, Mrs Y took out a personal Healthier Solutions private medical insurance policy. 
Shed previously been a joint policyholder on a separate Healthier Solutions contract.
The policy renewed each year. But Mrs Y was unhappy with the premium she was quoted at 
the 2021-22 policy year. Ultimately, she was able to find cheaper cover with another insurer. 
She asked Aviva to provide the new insurer with confirmation of her cover. However, Aviva 
made errors in this cover confirmation letter and there was a delay in sending the correct 
details. This meant Mrs Y experienced a short break in cover.
Mrs Y was unhappy with the premiums shed been charged during the life of the policy and 
with the customer service shed received. So she asked us to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ys complaint should be upheld. She felt Aviva was entitled 
to decide how much it wanted to charge for its policy, so long as it did so fairly. She 
considered the evidence Aviva had provided and she felt it had provided a reasonable 
explanation for the increase in price. She was also satisfied that Mrs Y had been treated in 
the same way as any other customer in the same circumstances. While she accepted that 
Aviva had made errors when it sent Mrs Ys new insurer cover confirmation, she didnt think 
this had led to Mrs Y suffering any financial loss. She felt Avivas apology had been enough 
to put things right. 
Mrs Y disagreed and Ive summarised her representatives response. They said that Mrs Y 
had been uninsured for around a month due to Avivas failings. So they questioned whether 
Aviva wouldve covered any private medical costs she may have incurred during that time. 
They considered Avivas apology had been of little tangible benefit to Mrs Y. They provided a 
copy of her policy certificate for her new insurer, which showed that she was paying less for 
cover than the amount shed been charged by Aviva. The new insurer provided cover for 
exclusively private hospitals, whereas Aviva provided cover for private wings within NHS 
hospitals, which meant that shed defacto been receiving NHS treatment. They felt Aviva 
should have proactively contacted Mrs Y over the years to discuss the price of her policy. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs Y, I dont think Aviva has treated her 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs Y that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her representatives submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and 
sent to us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been made 
and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues. 
These are whether Aviva increased Mrs Ys premium unfairly and whether it should pay 
compensation for poor customer service.
Did Aviva calculate Mrs Ys premium fairly?
It might be helpful if I explain how we look at complaints like Mrs Ys. We dont generally tell 
insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge to cover that risk.
Avivas entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for a particular risk 
(in this case, the risk of Mrs Y needing private medical care). And if it does, what price it 
needs to charge for that. So Aviva will have assessed the risk of Mrs Y needing to make a 
claim at each review or renewal afterwards. If it thinks the risk has gone up (for example, 
because the risk-profile has increased), then it may need to put up the premium. 
Accordingly, in complaints like these, what I look at are the factors the insurer has applied to 
calculate the premium and whether its done so fairly. This is so that I can be satisfied that 
Mrs Y has been treated in the same way as any other customer of Aviva in similar 
circumstances and hasnt been singled out in any way. 
Its clear that Mrs Y has been able to obtain cheaper cover through another insurer. So I can 
understand why shes worried that Aviva hasnt treated her reasonably throughout the life of 
the policy. Id add though that Aviva isnt bound to offer cover on the same terms as other 
insurers  and most, if not all, insurers calculate price in slightly different ways. 
Avivas notes show that Mrs Y had little contact with it during the life of this policy. Its 
provided me with a list of the annual premiums Mrs Y paid throughout the contract term and I 
can see that the premium has generally risen over time. Its clear that Mrs Y was originally 
insured under a joint Healthier Solutions policy. I think its fair to say then that Mrs Y was 
aware that cover could be changed to meet a policyholders needs. Avivas notes 
demonstrate that Mrs Ys representative did call up to change the level of cover in December 
2016 and to query the price in January 2017. So it seems she was aware of the price and 
that she could contact Aviva if she had any questions about the level of cover or if she was 
unhappy with the premium shed been quoted. It was therefore open to her to query the price 
shed been charged at each renewal.
And Aviva explained to us how the premium increases were calculated for the last three 
renewals and the main factors it took into account when it calculated those annual prices. Its 
also provided us with underwriting information which supports its position. Im afraid that I 
cant share this evidence with Mrs Y, as its commercially sensitive and therefore its 
confidential. But I hope it reassures Mrs Y to know that I have considered this information 
carefully. 
I can explain though that the main reasons for the price rises were the increase in Mrs Ys 
age and scheme increases. And it appears that these factors wouldve been applied to any 
other customer of Mrs Ys age and in the same scheme in the same way. So based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied Aviva treated Mrs Y in the same way it would any other 
policyholder who held the same type of contract. So I cant reasonably say its treated her 
unfairly.Should Aviva pay Mrs Y compensation for its service failings?
Theres no dispute that when Aviva initially provided Mrs Y with a confirmation of cover, it 
sent incorrect information. This impacted on the new insurers ability to set-up Mrs Ys new 
policy and ensure there was no break in private medical cover. And it seems that Mrs Y was 
uninsured for around a month. Given its clear how important private medical cover is to Mrs 
Y, I can entirely understand how frustrating it must have been when her new policy couldnt 
be set-up as quickly as shed have wished. Aviva acknowledges it provided poor service 
here and has offered Mrs Y an apology.
Ive carefully considered whether I think Aviva needs to do anything more to put things right. 
On balance, I dont. It wouldnt generally be appropriate for me to speculate on hypothetical 
scenarios. But Im mindful that theres no evidence to suggest that Mrs Y needed to make 
any claims during the period she was without cover. And so theres no evidence of Mrs Y 
suffering direct financial loss as a result of its error. As Avivas errors didnt result in Mrs Y 
being unable to access necessary private treatment during the uninsured period, I dont think 
it would be reasonable to compensate her for a loss she hasnt incurred. 
Based on the evidence before me, I simply dont think theres enough information for me to 
fairly and reasonably find that Avivas customer service errors have caused Mrs Y material 
distress or inconvenience. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to make a 
compensatory award in this case. Overall, Im satisfied that, in these circumstances, Avivas 
apology was a fair way for it to put right its mistake.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman