DRN-3706216
The complaint
Mr W complains that P W Financial Management Limited (PW) failed to advise him about his 
applicable annual allowance for pension contributions. He feels PW should be responsible 
for any tax charge applied as a result of exceeding his annual allowance since 2016.
What happened
Mr W was introduced to PW in 2016. PWs notes of its meeting with Mr W on 27 June 2016 
recorded:
Mr W had a Directors SIPP with a company he was the director of. Mr W made 
maximum contributions in accordance with HMRC limits paid each year 2015 £50k 
2016 £40k due to change in limits.
Mr W had a Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP) with a company Ill refer to as R. 
the note says EER 4% EEE 5% done on salary sacrifice.
Following the meeting, PW emailed Mr W its recommendation on 21 September 2016. In 
summary, PW said it was only dealing with advice about Mr Ws GPP. The notes say I am 
only dealing with moving it to a lower cost arrangement. PW recommended Mr W transfer 
his GPP from R to a company Ill refer to as A. Mr W asked to meet with PW to discuss the 
recommendation. It appears PW went on to set up a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
for Mr W with A.
PWs notes of a further meeting with Mr W on 26 September 2016 recorded Mr W did not 
want personal advice at this stage and doesnt want to complete a fact find. The notes went 
on to say PW and Mr W discussed using a pension to purchase properties to repay loans. 
PW said it could not look at doing that on a limited advice basis and would need a full fact 
find.
On 8 March 2017, the finance manager of Mr Ws company emailed PW and Mr W, setting 
out that the company intended to make a contribution of £40,000 to Mr Ws SIPP before the 
end of the tax year. PW responded providing the account details for the SIPP with no further 
comment. 
PW met Mr W again on 20 June 2017. PWs note of the meeting says its purpose was, 
again, to discuss using pensions to purchase properties so loans can be repaid. Mr W had 
not completed its Fact Find, so PW said it can only give general principles and not give a 
recommendation.
Mr W met PW thereafter on an annual basis. PWs meeting notes from 7 February 2018 do 
not note how much Mr W expected to contribute to his pension in the coming year. But PWs 
meeting notes from 30 January 2019, 22 January 2020, 1 February 2021 all note Mr W 
would contribute £40,000 to his pension in each financial year. 
PWs meeting notes from 2 February 2022 noted concerns Mr W may pay tax on excess 
contributions above the personal allowance. On 3 February 2022, PW emailed Mr W the 
following:
As promised here is the complete detail in relation to the reduction in the Annual 
Allowance. 
Reduced annual allowance for high earners (tapering)
If an individuals adjusted income (total income plus the value of any employer 
payments) is more than:
£150,000 for tax years 2016/17 to 2019/20
£240,000 from 2020/21
their annual allowance will be reduced by £1 for every £2 of adjusted income over 
that level.
For tax years 2016/17 to 2019/20, if adjusted income was £210,000 or greater, the 
annual allowance was reduced to a minimum of £10,000
If an individual has exceeded their available annual allowance within a tax year 
then there will be an annual allowance tax charge due on the excess
When we first met [Mr W] you declined to give me personal information and only 
wanted me to arrange the transfer of your pension as set out in my emails of 28th 
June and 21st September 2016. The same emails did mention that I would need to 
carry out a full fact find to give you full advice So I have never been aware of your 
income.
Mr W complained to PW, saying it should have advised him about the annual allowance 
limit. In its response to Mr Ws complaint, PW said Mr W didnt provide details of his salary or 
other income details, so it couldnt have checked whether his contributions would exceed the 
annual allowance. It added it was the responsibility of Mr Ws accountant to advise Mr W of 
the applicable tax limits and charges. 
Unhappy with PWs response, Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigator reviewed Mr Ws complaint but didnt uphold it. The Investigator didnt think it 
was PWs responsibility to warn Mr W or ensure he didnt breach his annual allowance for 
contributions to his pensions. She said Mr W didnt give PW details about his income so it 
couldnt have known Mr W would breach the annual allowance. 
Mr W didnt agree with our Investigators opinion and provided detailed reasons. Ill 
summarise those here.
Mr W says he appointed PW as a pension adviser to administer his companys 
GPP scheme as well as his own pension arrangements. 
PW failed to advise him that the maximum tax-free annual allowances were income 
dependent and tapered off once a certain income threshold is reached. Knowing he 
was contributing £40,000 each year to his pension, PW should have advised him he 
was exceeding his annual allowance.
Instead, PW emailed the finance manager of Mr Ws company to remind him to make 
the £40,000 contribution to Mr Ws pension before the tax-year ended.
Mr W made a total of £126,000 in contributions to his pension above his personal 
annual allowance between 1 April 2017 and 31 March 2021, incurring a tax charge of £56,700. Mr W said he wouldnt have exceeded his annual allowance if hed known 
about it.
Mr W says PW is trying to absolve itself of liability by arguing he didnt provide details 
of his income on the Fact Find. But PW knew he was the sole director of a very 
successful company and it was likely he would be a high earner whose income level 
would result in a reduced pension annual allowance. PW should still have advised 
him on the legislation regarding reduced (tapered) annual allowances. Further, Mr W 
didnt sign anything absolving PW of his duty of care towards him.
As no agreement could be reached between PW and Mr W, this has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W and PW have made a number of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence, and I 
want to reassure both parties I have looked at it all. I may not address or respond to every 
point made. I hope they realise I mean no disrespect by this, it simply reflects the informal 
nature of this service. In deciding this complaint Ive focussed on what I consider to be the 
heart of the matter, rather than commenting on every issue in turn. 
I consider the crux of this complaint to be whether, based on the information it had available, 
PW should have advised Mr W of the annual allowance rates and how those might affect 
him. 
Mr W didnt sign a client agreement until 2019. But from everything Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Mr W was a personal client of PW and has made this complaint in a personal capacity.
Mr W says PW should have advised him on the legislation regarding annual allowances. 
From the client agreement and correspondence between Mr W and PW, I think its clear that 
PWs role was to set up the SIPP with A in 2016. From then, as per the client agreement, 
PW offered to meet Mr W each year to review his pension arrangements. The client notes 
show PW took responsibility for reminding Mr Ws company to make contributions to Mr Ws 
scheme and, from time to time, it provided advice on the investments held within Mr Ws 
SIPP. I dont think PWs responsibility to Mr W went as far as providing tax-planning advice  
I dont think this is the service PW offered Mr W or would have been in a position to provide, 
given the limited information Mr W gave it about his financial circumstances. So, I dont think 
PW was obliged to inform Mr W of the legislation about the reduced annual allowance that, 
as far as PW knew, wasnt applicable to him. 
That being said, I have thought about Mr Ws point that he was always likely to be a high 
earner as the director of a large company, so PW should have been reasonably aware his 
level of income was likely to result in a reduced annual allowance. But it does not 
necessarily follow his income would exceed the relevant limits set out above. It is not in 
dispute that Mr W has never disclosed his income from 2016 onwards to PB. So, I do not 
think it has been clear or obvious to PW at any point that Mr Ws income may have meant he 
was entitled only to a reduced annual allowance on pension contributions. PW asked Mr W 
to provide details of his income on its fact find in 2016, which Mr W declined to complete. I 
also think it was clear it could only provide personal recommendations to Mr W if he provided 
details about his financial circumstances. So, whilst PW was aware of the contributions Mr W 
was investing into his SIPP, there is insufficient evidence to show Mr W did so as a result of 
advice PW gave him. To give that advice, PW would have needed more information about Mr Ws personal circumstances as I have said above, which he was not willing to provide. 
If Mr W had provided information to PW that indicated his earnings were going to be over the 
annual earnings threshold, meaning he was likely to have a reduced annual allowance, I 
think it would have been reasonable for PW to draw this to his attention. But it was not aware 
and, for the reasons explained above, I do not think PW was under an obligation to advise 
Mr W of legislation that it was not clear was relevant to him.
For the reasons explained above, I do not think PW has done anything wrong here. So, I do 
not think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require PW to reimburse Mr W for the 
additional tax charge he incurred for exceeding his annual allowance on pension 
contributions from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2021. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Victoria Blackwood
Ombudsman