DRN-4228317
The complaint
Mr K complains about Skipton Financial Services Ltd. He doesnt think theyve managed his 
Monitored Informed Investment (MII) portfolio correctly which has caused him unnecessary 
losses. 
What happened
Mr K received investment advice from Skipton in 2012. They recommended that he invest 
£25,000 in their MII service as they thought this had the potential to meet his objectives of 
taking an income and achieving long term growth.
Mr K complained to Skipton in 2022 and said that he was unhappy with the performance of 
the investment. Hed initially invested for growth and income, but hed had to stop the 
income payments in 2017 as the investment wasnt performing well and he wanted to leave 
the funds to grow. But since that time, the value of the investments had continued to go 
down. He was also unhappy that a fund switch in 2020 had made the investment too heavily 
weighted in equities. 
Skipton investigated the concerns that hed raised but didnt uphold the complaint. They 
didnt think the recommendation was unsuitable nor had they provided any guarantees 
around the performance of the investment. They thought theyd highlighted the risks of the 
investment to Mr K and noted that theyd offered to review his investments in 2020 and 2022 
but hed declined to do so.
Mr K didnt accept their findings and asked for our help. Skipton didnt consent to us looking 
into the suitability of the advice that theyd given Mr K as they thought this element of his 
complaint had been made too late. One of investigators considered the complaint and 
agreed that this part of the complaint had been made too late. But he did think that we were 
able to consider the performance of the investment since 2016 and the fund switch in 2020. 
The investigator looked into these complaint points but didnt think they should be upheld. 
He noted that Mr K hadnt lost money on the investment and thought that Skipton had 
managed it in line with what theyd told Mr K. He also thought the equity content of the 
investment following the fund switch in 2020 wasnt unsuitable for Mr Ks stated risk profile 
and objectives. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and I will go on to explain why. 
As theres been no objections from either party to the investigators opinion about which 
elements of the complaint have been made too late, I will only be looking at the complaint 
points about the management of the investment since 2016 and fund switch in 2020. 
Ive firstly considered if Skipton have managed the investment in line with what they told Mr 
K. The documentation he was provided with said Skipton would constantly monitor the 
performance of the MII core funds and regularly meet with fund managers in order to 
understand their ongoing strategy. They would also assess the performance of each core 
fund against the rest of its sector, to determine whether the returns it has delivered are 
above or below average. 
They would keep investors updated on how their investments are performing every three 
months and offer the opportunity to change the core fund for an alternative core fund if it did 
not meet expectations. If one of the funds delivered below average returns against its peers 
over four consecutive quarters, they would reimburse the ongoing charge until the funds 
performance improved or they offered a fund switch.
From what Ive seen Mr K was sent quarterly reports, so I cant say he wasnt made aware of 
the performance of the funds he held. During the term of the investment, Skipton assessed 
the performance of the underlying funds and a number of fund switches were offered to Mr 
K, which he accepted in 2016 and 2020. He was offered reviews in 2019, 2020 and 2021 but 
he declined to meet with Skipton. 
Given what Ive seen, on balance, I dont think I can fairly say that Skipton havent provided 
Mr K with the level of service they promised him or havent managed his portfolio in line with 
what they told him. Therefore, I dont uphold this aspect of Mr Ks complaint.
Ive then gone on to consider the fund switch in 2020. Mr Ks portfolio was switched from the 
Premier Miton Cautious Monthly Income fund and BMO MM Navigator Distribution fund to 
the Fidelity Multi Asset Income fund. The Fidelity fund had a lower equity content compared 
to the funds it replaced and was classified as medium-low risk fund which was in line with Mr 
Ks recorded ATR from 2012. Having considered the available evidence, I dont think it was 
an unsuitable switch and didnt expose Mr K to an unsuitable level of equity content, so I 
dont think Skipton have acted inappropriately here. 
In summary, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, I dont think 
Skipton have treated Mr K unfairly. I think theyve administered the portfolio in line with what 
they told Mr K at the outset and the fund switch in 2020 wasnt unsuitable for Mr Ks 
circumstances. Therefore, I wont be asking them to do anything to resolve Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman