DRN-1921705
The complaint
Mr Q complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) declined his 
Roadside Assistance Insurance claim.
What happened
In November 2019 Mr Qs vehicle broke down and he called out AA. AAs roadside engineer 
said the issues could possibly be related to the head gasket. The vehicle was then 
transported to a garage of Mr Qs choice.
The garage inspected Mr Qs vehicle and told AA the head gasket was faulty. AA arranged 
for the vehicle to be inspected by an independent engineer to confirm the faults.
An independent engineer inspected the vehicle but, in their report, they said there were no 
obvious signs of failure on the head gasket. It did mention the engine may possibly have 
damage in form of a crack to the cylinder head. They advised testing would be needed to 
confirm this.
Considering the time and mileage since Mr Q had purchased the vehicle, the engineer said 
the faults would have been developing before the policy was put in place. As the faults pre -
dated the inception of the policy, AA declined Mr Qs claim.
Mr Q was unhappy with this. He said AA asked for his engine to be dismantled, without his 
permission, and as the claim was declined, he was left with the costs of reassembling it. He 
said a pressure test was carried out but there was no fault. Mr Q says this cost him around 
£1,500. Mr Q said he continued to experience the same issues with the car after the engine 
was reassembled  and was later resolved with a minor repair. He feels AA didnt correctly 
diagnose the issue and he has incurred costs due to their mismanagement of his claim.
Mr Q complained to AA but was unhappy with their response, so he brought the complaint to 
our service. 
Our investigator said from listening to calls between Mr Qs mechanic and the AA, the faults 
were diagnosed by the mechanic. She also said shed listened to a call where AA specifically 
told the mechanic they would need to get Mr Qs permission before dismantling the engine. 
She didnt think AA had done anything wrong and didnt recommend Mr Qs complaint be 
upheld.
Mr Q didnt agree with our investigator and made the following points:
 AAs initial report suggested the head gasket was an issue, and this is their 
experienced professional opinion
 Mr Q agreed for the engine to be dismantled based on AAs recommendation in order 
to proceed with the claim
 AA should have sent an engineer to inspect the engine before it was dismantled and 
couldve provided an answer on whether they would accept a claim before he incurred 
further costs
 The independent engineer recommended a pressure test was completed and 
showed there was nothing wrong with cylinder head. So this was an unnecessary cost
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q has made a number of detailed points. Ive considered all of them but Im going to 
focus my decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as 
a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Im not upholding Mr Qs complaint. Ill explain why.
Our service is unable to look at complaints about the service AA provides at the roadside as 
its not an activity our service has the power to consider, so any mention of this is purely for 
timeline purposes and my decision is based on events after the car was taken to the garage.
Under the section of how to make a claim, the terms and conditions of the policy say before 
any repairs are started the customer and the repairer must agree on what work needs to be 
done - and these repairs must then be authorised by AA. 
It also says in some circumstances it may be necessary to appoint an independent engineer 
to inspect the vehicle to assess whether the claim falls within the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
In the general conditions of the policy it also says:
3. Claims/Repair authorisation
e) Any exploratory dismantling charges will only be paid for as part of a Paid Claim. It is Your
responsibility to agree any exploratory dismantling charges with Your chosen repairer and to
pay their charges if, after dismantling, Your claim is not authorised by the Insurer.
Following a roadside inspection, the vehicle was taken to Mr Qs mechanic. Mr Qs mechanic 
wouldve carried out their own inspection. And as a qualified mechanic I think its reasonable 
they would have come to their own conclusions about what was potentially causing the fault.
Ive listened to the calls that took place between AA and the mechanic in December 2019. 
The mechanic said he carried out initial tests on the vehicle and he believed the head gasket 
had failed. AA asked the mechanic if the engine had been stripped to confirm this was the 
case, the engineer said it hadnt. AA said this needed to be done to confirm what type of 
repair would be needed - but Mr Q would need to give his permission before doing so. 
The engineer later called back, confirmed hed stripped the engine, and found the gasket 
had failed. So I think this was the diagnosis of Mr Qs mechanic, not AA. AA said at this point 
they would need an independent engineer to review and confirm the faults.
The independent engineer said, in their report, they couldnt find any obvious signs of head 
gasket failure. They said based on visible evidence, there could possibly be a crack in the 
cylinder head, and the faults would have been developing at the time the vehicle was 
purchased.  AA are entitled to rely on their experts opinion and Ive not seen anything to persuade me 
the issues occurred for a different reason  so overall, Im persuaded by the engineers 
report.
The engineer also recommended a pressure test to confirm the potential issues with the 
cylinder head. Mr Q says the pressure test showed no issues with the cylinder head, and he 
has incurred additional costs as a result. But Mr Q hasnt provided the results of the pressure 
test, and it wouldve been his choice whether to carry out the recommendations of the 
independent engineer. 
So I think in these circumstances it for reasonable for AA to decline Mr Qs claim.
The policy also says dismantling charges would only be covered in the event of a paid claim. 
Its not unusual for businesses to do this, and I think it is set out clearly in the policy these 
costs arent covered. So I dont think AA have applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
unfairly here by not paying these.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman