DRN-3043167
The complaint
Mr J complains that he was mis-sold a training course financed by Carnegie 
Consumer Finance Limited (CCF).
What happened
Mr J enrolled on a training course in September 2015. The course was paid for by a fixed 
sum loan provided by CCF which was arranged after a representative visited Mr Js house 
at his request.
In August 2018 Mr J complained to CCF about a number of issues concerning the course. 
In summary, he said;
- he wasnt told that hed entered into a finance agreement;
- he felt pressured into agreeing to the course;
- the sale took place in his bedroom which he believed to be a safeguarding issue;
- there was no assessment of his suitability for the course;
- he was told hed be invited to a practical training centre in person, but this 
didnt happen; and
- he received little support from his tutor and despite being told he could work at 
his own pace, he found that the course provided little flexibility.
Mr J also said that he was told he could stop the course at any point. So, he asked to do 
that and for the payments hed made to be refunded.
CCF didnt uphold the complaint. It accepted the sale of the course had taken place at Mr 
Js home and whilst it wasnt clear what Mr J had meant with his reference to safeguarding, 
it said that Mr J was over 18 at the time of the sale and it wasnt aware that he was at all 
vulnerable. It invited Mr J to provide further comments on this.
In response to the other points Mr J had made, CCF said that it was satisfied hed been 
provided with sufficient information about both the finance hed accepted, as well as how 
the course would operate. It specified that it was made clear students would be responsible 
for their own study time and could request support when needed. It also said that Mr J had 
not completed the required course elements in order to do the practical training, something 
which it also thought had been made clear to Mr J.
CCF didnt accept that Mr J had been told he could cancel the course at any point and 
didnt think it had been misrepresented to him, so declined to cancel the loan or issue any 
refund.
Mr J referred his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. She 
accepted that the features of the loan and course had been adequately represented to Mr J 
at the outset. She also thought that the course Mr J had received met the description he 
was provided with. Overall, she didnt accept that Mr Js loan had been mis-sold. She also 
found there had been no breach of contract in relation to the service Mr J received from the 
course provider.
Mr J didnt agree. He maintained that the course had been mis-sold, commented that 
the course provider had dissolved, and said that the college providing the course didnt 
physically exist. He also said that he believed CCF were using fake court letters and an 
unregulated debt collection agency to pursue him for his outstanding loan.
The case was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on it, explaining why I 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, I said;
Mr Js contract with CCF is a regulated consumer credit agreement, and one which 
our service is able to consider a complaint about.
Ive taken into account the law relevant to the complaint, which in this case is section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It makes CCF responsible for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier under certain conditions. Im satisfied that Mr Js claim 
has met those conditions.
Ill address the points Mr J has made, broadly in order.
the sale of the loan
Mr J says that he wasnt aware that he had entered into a finance agreement, felt 
pressured into agreeing to the course, and that there was a safeguarding issue because 
part of the sale took place in his bedroom.
Like our investigator, I find that Mr J ought reasonably to have known that he was 
entering into a finance agreement for the course. I say this primarily because Ive seen 
that Mr J signed a number of documents, including an application as well as a loan 
affordability assessment. I think that those documents are sufficiently clear that the 
course Mr J had applied for was financed via a fixed sum loan.
Mr J says that he wasnt given sufficient opportunity to read those documents as the sales 
person held them whilst he signed them. From what Mr J has said, Im not persuaded that 
he was put under any undue pressure to agree to the loan given that he signed a number of 
documents which I think clearly show the terms and structure of his agreement. 
Additionally, I think its fair to suggest that if Mr J was unsure about what he was agreeing 
to at any point he couldve asked for the opportunity to read those documents in detail or 
asked for clarification if needed. So, on balance I think its likely Mr J ought to have been 
reasonably aware that the course was being financed via a loan and Im not persuaded he 
was pressured into signing it. I also note that Mr J was left with various documents relating 
to the course and loan, but didnt raise any concerns about the set up of the loan or course 
until a number of years later, despite making regular repayments to the loan.
Mr J raised whether it was appropriate for the loan to be sold in his bedroom. He made a 
number of points about why he believed it to be safeguarding issue; he was young and 
vulnerable and the representative told him that he seemed motivated and capable, which 
is something Mr J didnt believe she could discern after one meeting.
Ive given careful consideration to what Mr Js said relating to this point. Overall, based on 
what Mr J has said, Im not persuaded that the sale of his loan constituted a safeguarding 
issue. Im also not satisfied that the loan being sold in Mr Js bedroom was inappropriate, 
especially as I understand thats where his DVD player was and he watched an 
informational DVD about the course.Mr J also hasnt articulated why he believed he was vulnerable other than saying that he 
was young at the time, which I dont think necessarily means he was also vulnerable. 
Nevertheless Ive not seen anything to make me think the representative put Mr J under 
undue pressure to sign the loan paperwork.
Mr J says that CCF didnt assess his suitability for the course and hes commented that he 
told CCFs agent that that hed previously been unsuccessful on a welding course. I dont 
consider that Mr J saying that hed previously attended a welding course is sufficient 
reason for CCF to have doubted whether Mr J could complete the course.
Lastly, with reference to the sale of the course, Mr J has said that he was told he could 
stop the course at any time. I also assume that Mr J believes that by stopping the course 
he wouldnt be expected to repay the associated loan. But none of the documents either Mr 
J or CCF have given me satisfy me that he was told this. I also think it would be an unusual 
feature on a course financed by a loan. As such, Im not persuaded that Mr J was told that 
he could stop the course and it would end his responsibility to repay his loan.
Overall, for the reasons explain above, Im not persuaded that Mr Js loan was mis-sold 
or misrepresented to him.
the performance of the course
Mr J has also raised issue with the performance of the course. In his initial complaint Mr J 
said that hed been working at his own pace and thought that everything was fine with the 
course, but hed asked for help with one section of the course and not received a 
response. He also said that hed tried to contact the course provider by telephone and 
hadnt received a response.
In response, CCF has provided evidence to show correspondence between Mr J and a 
tutor of the course provider as well as evidence of various modules he had completed.
To uphold Mr Js complaint about the performance of the course, Id need to be satisfied 
that theres been a been a breach of contract; i.e. that he didnt receive the service hed 
paid for because it wasnt provided with reasonable care or skill, or at all. Having 
considered all of the evidence provided, including the course description, as well as 
testimony from Mr J and CCF, Im not satisfied that theres been a breach of contract. Ill 
explain why.
CCF says that Mr J was given documents which detailed what he could expect from the 
course. It says those documents made it clear that it was an open learning course and 
that students would be responsible for their progress through it, rather than following a 
set course. The course documents and enrolment form Ive seen suggest this is the case.
Taking into account that Mr J has said he was working at his own pace, thought everything 
was fine and its been demonstrated that he completed a number of the course modules, I 
think its fair to say that for that period the course met Mr Js expectations as well as the 
description of the course from the documents provided to Mr J. Mr J also told our 
investigator that he did have a conversation with a tutor about his course progress 
sometime in 2015.
I accept its possible that Mr J may have asked for help and not received it to the extent he 
expected, on occasion. And he may have tried to contact the course provider by telephone 
without success. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the course wasnt provided with 
reasonable care and skill overall. The course documents dont go into detail about the level of support Mr J should expect other than to say that tutors would mark his work and provide 
feedback, and from what Ive seen, it seems that happened. Overall, whilst I accept theres 
a reasonable expectation on Mr Js part to be given some level of support, Im not 
persuaded from what hes said that he wasnt provided with a level of support he ought 
reasonably to have expected based on the course documents.
Mr J also says that the course provided little flexibility. He hasnt been specific about what 
he meant by that, but its at odds which what hes said about working through the course at 
his own speed. Overall, Ive not been persuaded from the evidence Ive been provided that 
there has been a breach of contract on the basis that Mr J was not provided with a level of 
flexibility he couldve reasonably expected.
Lastly, with reference to the performance of the course, Mr J says that he was given the 
impression that the course would include a practical element, but he wasnt invited to 
attend any practical sessions.
I accept that the course description CCF has provided features an emphasis on the 
practical element of the course. But I also think it makes it clear that the course would 
involve a mixture of home study as well as practical assessments. And, significantly, it says 
that students will progress on to the practical elements once each section of the home 
study modules are completed.
CCF has shown an email exchange between Mr J and his tutor in which the tutor 
explained that Mr J had not met the requirements for the practical assessment because 
he had not completed the required home study modules. Ive also seen that Mr J did not 
meet the standard required on some modules and was required to resubmit them. Given 
this, Im satisfied that the course Mr J enrolled on did include a practical assessment as 
hed been told, but also that he hadnt met the requirements to participate in it.
Overall, for the reasons explained above, Ive not been persuaded that theres been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation here.
other considerations
In response to our investigators assessment Mr J made a number of additional points 
which werent addressed as part of his original complaint. Ill address them here though.
In summary, Mr J said;
-CCF had sent him fake court letters and asked unlicensed debt collectors to 
contact him;
-The course provider is a dormant company; and
-The college didnt physically exist.
He maintained that the course had been mis-sold.
CCF has told us that Mr Js loan was administered by its collections department due to 
non- payment until November 2018, and after that point it was passed to its contracted 
debt collection agent. It said it believed the agent is fully regulated and also refuted that it 
had sent any fake court letters.
I reviewed various letters and other documents from debt collection agents which Mr J 
supplied. Having done so  and whilst Mr J hasnt articulated exactly what he means by fake court letters, I havent found anything to support this assertion. Additionally, and with 
regard for relevant guidance on debt collection, I havent been able to identify any issues 
with those letters  they simply ask Mr J to contact the agents and give notice of visits from 
collection agents.
With reference to what Mr Js said about the course provider, CCF has said that it has not 
gone into administration nor is it dormant. It has pointed out that Mr Js course needed to be 
completed within 36 months of his enrolment, so Mr J would now not be able to complete 
the course unless he was to contact the course provider directly and apply for an extension.
Lastly, Im not clear on what Mr J meant by saying that the college didnt exist. I can only 
assume that hes referred to a site where he understood he could undertake physical 
assessments. In any case, Ive already established that Mr J had not undertaken the 
required modules to attempt the physical assessments. It wouldve been for the course 
provider to provide a suitable location for that element of the course, and it wasnt required 
to do that for Mr J. So, I think this has no bearing on the outcome of this complaint.
CCF responded to say that it had nothing further to add. Mr J didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and given that neither party has provided any further information or 
evidence in response to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions and therefore make them final. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman