DRN-3362309
The complaint
Mr T complains that Mulberry Wealth Management Limited (Mulberry) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer the benefits from his defined benefits (DB) pension scheme with        
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension (PP). 
Mr T is being represented by a third party, but for ease Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr T.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts previous employer announced it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a PP arrangement. 
After initially contacting Mulberry in May 2017, concerned about what that announcement 
meant for the security of his pension, Mr T first met with it in August 2017. Mulberry gathered 
information about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives, carried out an assessment of his 
attitude to risk and discussed his options. Following this, Mulberry recommended Mr T wait 
to make a decision until hed received information that was expected to be sent shortly on 
funding that had been paid into BSPS. 
In September 2017, after receiving an increased transfer value, Mr T met with Mulberry 
again to review his options and it prepared an updated TVAS and illustrations.
In October 2017 members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter giving them the 
option to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or transfer 
their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 December 2017 
(and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
On 4 October 2017 Mulberry advised Mr T to transfer his BSPS to a PP. It said this would 
allow him to achieve his objectives of having more control over his pension as he lacked 
faith in his employers ability to manage the scheme, having flexibility to take tax free cash 
(TFC) while leaving the rest invested, to choose his income in retirement, as well as having 
better death benefits. 
Mr T had a preserved final salary pension that was projected to pay a pension of £30,504 
from age 65. Prior to the transfer it had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of £495,178.20 
that was reduced to £470,419. And his desired retirement age was noted as being from 58 
onwards. Mr T also had a defined contribution pension (DC) through his employer that he 
started in March 2017, to which he and his employer were each contributing 10% per year, 
totalling around £9,000 per year. 
The suitability report and fact find noted that, at the time of the advice, Mr T was aged 44, 
married and had three children (two dependent). It said he lived in a property he owned, 
which was worth around £486,000 and had an outstanding mortgage of £270,000. It said he 
jointly owned four buy to let properties with his wife, valued at around £587,000 with 
outstanding mortgages totalling £422,000, which produced a rental income of around £1,400 
per month. It said he had savings of around £16,000 and that he was working full time, 
earning £45,000 per year. It also said that, while he had no specific plans to retire, hed like 
to aim to do so between ages 55 and 58 if he could afford to, sell all their properties except 
one and move abroad, although this wasnt set in stone. 
While the suitability report said Mr Ts risk profile was moderate, it also said it had agreed 
he should invest on a ;lower moderate; basis following the transfer for 12-18 months, as 
equity markets especially were a little high and could potentially fall in the short term. 
Mr T accepted Mulberrys advice, so his benefits in the BSPS were transferred to his new PP 
around November 2017.
In 2020, Mr T complained to Mulberry that its advice was unsuitable, as he ought to have 
been advised to transfer his DB scheme to BSPS2 or the PPF, and that hes been caused a 
financial loss. 
Mulberry didnt agree with Mr Ts complaint. It said, in summary, that it couldnt have advised 
Mr T to opt into the BSPS2 as his transfer value expired before the consultation process for 
it completed, he wasnt entitled to another for 12 months and, in any case, it wasnt clear at 
the time at the advice if the BSPS2 would go ahead. It said information on BSPS2 was 
limited, so any comparison with this wouldnt be completely accurate, and that further detail 
wasnt expected until October 2017. And that if Mr T had opted in, and it didnt go ahead, he 
wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. 
It also said the big driver for Mr T was that he didnt trust the BSPS2 not to fall into the PPF. 
And Mr T was concerned the BSPS2 benefits would be limited, which he was correct about 
to the extent that it offered less generated benefits than his existing scheme. 
Mulberry said it exercised reasonable care and skill in advising Mr T, who made an informed 
decision after having time to consider his options without pressure. It said it clearly explained 
the risks and guarantees Mr T was giving up, his options and why the transfer was suitable. 
And it wasnt required to guarantee the transfer was suitable for him. It also said that, while 
Mr T didnt go on to increase the risk level his funds were invested in as planned, he 
expressed a desire to do so in early 2020 which didnt go ahead due to the impact of    
Covid-19 on markets and because he then raised his complaint. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and upheld it. He didnt think Mulberry 
had demonstrated that transferring Mr Ts OPS to a PP was in his best interests, as he 
thought Mr T was likely to be worse off in retirement. And he wasnt persuaded Mr T had any 
genuine retirement objectives that needed to be addressed at the time rather than nearer to 
retirement. Overall, our Investigator thought Mr T shouldve been advised to wait and then 
opt into the BSPS2. He recommended that Mulberry compensate Mr T for the losses he 
incurred by transferring his DB pension, based on him having opted to join the BSPS2. He 
also said Mulberry should pay Mr T £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
While Mr T accepted our Investigators opinion, Mulberry didnt agree. It added, in summary, 
that the Investigator had assessed the case on the wrong basis. It said its adviser wasnt 
required to guarantee the transfer would be in Mr Ts best interests. Instead, they were 
simply required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for him. Mulberry 
also said the discount rate used by the Investigator wasnt relevant, nor were the critical 
yields because Mr T didnt want to take an annuity; he wanted flexibility.Mulberry said that Mr T had made a fully informed decision to proceed with the transfer. And 
it maintained that the BSPS2 was not a sure thing and so was not an option at the time of 
the advice. Mulberry thought Mr T wouldve gone on to transfer in any event. And it said 
theres no evidence hes in a worse position now than if hed opted for BSPS2. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties have made detailed submissions and, while Ive carefully considered these,        
I only intend to address what I think is key to reaching my decision. 
In doing so, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Mulberry's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Mulberry says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr T. I agree that under the COBS Mulberry was required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that its personal recommendation to Mr T was suitable for him 
(COBS 9.2.1). However, additional regulations apply to advising on transferring out of DB 
schemes. These additional regulations say that the starting assumption for a transfer from a 
DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a business should only have considered a 
transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in the 
customers best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked at all the evidence available, 
Im not satisfied it was in Mr Ts best interests. So, Ive decided to uphold his complaint for 
largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
Financial viabilityAs required by the regulator, Mulberry carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) 
showing how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year to provide the 
same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). However, this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits and Mr T didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS  he either needed 
to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to the PPF. 
Mulberry said in the suitability report that, while Mr T had the option of transferring to 
BSPS2, which sounds like it would offer greater benefits than the PPF, Mr T wasnt willing to 
wait for this. And that it couldnt run a comparison, as it didnt have the details or timescales 
in which those would be available, so the only comparison it could provide was with the 
benefits available to Mr T through the PPF. But I think Mulberry overestimated the chance of 
this not happening given the BSPS2 was formally announced as progressing on                 
11 August 2017. And it was announced on 21 September 2017 that members would have 
the choice of moving to this or the PPF and that it would send out details of this time to 
choose packs in early October 2017. 
In which case, I think Mulberry should have waited until Mr T had received his pack before 
making its recommendation. Especially when considering the existing scheme was no longer 
an option, so its analysis of it wasnt helpful to Mr T. BSPS2 wouldve offered the same 
income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. I appreciate the suitability 
report says Mr T didnt want to wait, but I think this was due to his distrust in the schemes 
available, which Ive addressed below. And, in any case, Mulberry had an obligation to act in 
Mr Ts best interest, despite what perception he had of his employer or the proposed 
scheme. So, I still think the benefits available to Mr T through the BSPS2 shouldve been 
factored in with this advice so that he could make an informed decision.
The TVAS said the critical yield required to match Mr Ts benefits from the OPS at age 65 
was 6.7% per year if he took a full pension or 9.77% at age 55. The critical yield required to 
match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 was quoted as 4.3% per year if Mr T 
took a full pension and 3.94% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. Alternatively it was 
6.77% at 55 if he took the full benefits and 6.21% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The 
lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat. But, I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits, particularly at age 65.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. While 
I recognise businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would 
have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 4.5% per year for 20 years to Mr Ts scheme 
retirement age. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
In the suitability report Mulberry said the fund it was recommending had a 8.96% annual 
average return over 3 years, which it also said would have been sufficient to match the 
required critical yields of BSPS and the PPF. But I think projecting that level of growth over 
such a long period of time was very optimistic, it doesnt appear to take account of charges 
or that the illustration for the PP it was recommended assumed the middle growth rate to be 
1.6% per annum after taking account of future inflation of 2.5% per year and charges. The impact of this meant that the value of Mr Ts fund at age 65, after taking account of all 
charges and inflation, was projected to be £489,000 in todays terms. This was substantially 
less than the value of the fund the TVAS said Mr T would need in order to purchase an 
annuity providing comparable benefits to his existing scheme, which was £1,075,948.25 at 
age 55 and £1,335,252.62 at age 65.
I appreciate it was anticipated that Mr Ts risk profile would increase to moderate, rather 
than lower moderate, and that hed later invest funds to reflect that in the hope of achieving 
greater returns. But, as set out above, Mulberry needed to clearly demonstrate on the 
evidence available at the time that the DB transfer was in Mr Ts best interests, rather than 
on the basis that it might later turn out to be if he switched funds in future. And I can see it 
recognised in the suitability report that the critical yield could mean that Mr Ts fund, after 
transfer, may not reach the levels required to match his existing scheme benefits.  
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ts 
attitude to risk  which he doesnt dispute was lower moderate at the time  and the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr T giving up the guarantees available to him 
through a DB scheme only to achieve the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But 
here, the critical yields relating to the BSPS benefits were all higher than the discount rate, 
the regulators middle projection rate and the middle growth rate on the PP illustration. Only 
the critical yields relating to the PPF benefits at age 65 were lower than these. I dont know 
what the critical yields wouldve been for the BSPS2 benefits, but I think they were likely to 
have been in between those applying to the BSPS and the PPF benefits. So, on balance, 
I think Mr T wouldve been worse off if he transferred out of the scheme compared with the 
benefits he could likely achieve by opting into the BSPS2. And if Mr T retired early, which 
was what he expected to do, then I think he was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value than from the BSPS2 and the PPF.
Mulberry says its unreasonable to base any findings on the discount rate because taking 
this into account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based 
my findings on this, I think it a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to 
determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under 
COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid 
under a DB scheme with those payable under a PP by using reasonable assumptions. So, 
businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered a reasonable 
assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, this has been considered in tandem with 
the regulators published projection rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is 
this combination, along with Mr Ts attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed unlikely 
be better off in retirement if he transferred to a PP.
Ive considered Mulberrys comments about reliance on the critical yield and that it has said 
this assumes Mr T would be acquiring an annuity, which wasnt contemplated here. But the 
regulator required it to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield. And I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mr T could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular 
income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 14 years. So,    
I think its entirely possible that Mr T would want at least some guaranteed income in 
retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).Given Mr T was unlikely to exceed the retirement benefits he wouldve been entitled to under 
the BSPS2 (or the PPF if he retired early) by transferring to a PP, for this reason alone 
I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in his best interests. Of course, financial 
viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Mulberry has argued in 
this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable and in 
Mr Ts best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
The suitability report said one of Mr Ts objectives was having the option to withdraw his 
pension funds as and when needed. It's evident Mr T couldnt take his DB scheme benefits 
flexibly. And I recognise that although he could choose to take TFC and a reduced annual 
pension, he had to take those benefits at the same time. 
But I dont think Mr T had any concrete retirement plans to really know whether he required 
flexibility in it or not. While Mr T said hed like to retire early (around age 58) and move 
abroad, he also said this was only if they could afford to, this wasnt set in stone and that he 
had no specific retirement plans. His retirement was likely to be at least 14 years away, so 
he didnt know whether hed want or need access to a lump sum before his normal scheme 
retirement age and to leave his funds invested until a later date. Theres no pressing need 
recorded in any of the documents Mulberry has provided, just a vague wish for flexibility in 
case he later wanted it. And I think if asked, most people would say flexibility is desirable, 
but that doesnt mean it was a genuine objective for Mr T at the time.
I also cant see evidence that Mr T had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Thats because theres no calculation of his retirement income needs, more likely 
than not because as I say, it was still many years until Mr T could retire. I dont know what 
income Mr T was entitled to through the BSPS2 or the PPF at age 58 because Mulberry 
failed to do that analysis. But according to the TVAS, Mr T couldve taken an annual pension 
of £17,481 through the PPF at age 55, so under the BSPS2 his income was likely to be at 
least this amount, and likely closer to £20,000 per year. I havent seen anything to persuade 
me that this sum wouldnt have met Mr Ts needs in retirement, particularly when considered 
alongside his DC scheme funds and Mrs Ts own pension income. So, I think Mr T couldve 
met his income needs in retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Furthermore, I dont think Mr T needed to transfer his DB scheme to a PP to have flexibility 
in retirement. I say this because Mr T expressed a desire to sell most of his properties, which 
would pay off any outstanding mortgages. And Mr T had retirement funds that would be 
building up over the next 14+ years, through his DC scheme. The fact-find says Mr T and his 
employer were each contributing 10% of his annual salary to this, which is around £750 per 
month. This means that, even without taking investment growth into account, his DC pension 
would be worth in the region of £120,000 at age 58. So I think Mr T would have likely had a 
significant DC pension to draw on flexibly, as and when he needed, to top up his income or 
to take additional lump sums. So, I dont think he would have had to sacrifice flexibility in 
retirement by opting into the BSPS2.
Overall, as Mr T had around 14 years before he thought he would access his pension, I think 
it was too soon for him to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme 
completely, particularly as Mr T had the option of joining the BSPS2. So, I dont think it was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr T to give up his guaranteed benefits now when he didnt 
know what his needs in retirement would be. If Mr T later had reason to transfer out of the 
BSPS2 he could have done so closer to retirement. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ts best 
interests for him to transfer his pension just to have flexibility that he didnt actually need.
Control and concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme The suitability report said one of Mr Ts objectives was taking control of his pension savings. 
And its clear that Mr T, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. He was worried his pension would end up in the PPF, which hed heard negative 
things about, and said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. And I appreciate 
the fact find says that despite Mr T being made aware the critical yield was quite high he was 
prepared to take a lower income in order to control his fund and break links with his 
employer. 
So I recognise its possible Mr T was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was Mulberrys obligation to give him an objective picture and recommend what was in his 
best interests. 
As Ive explained, by this point it seemed likely BSPS2 was going to be going ahead if the 
funding criteria was met and it was known that more details of it were due to be released 
shortly. So I think this shouldve alleviated Mr Ts concerns about the scheme moving to the 
PPF. I appreciate that Mr T had a general distrust of his employer, and that this meant he 
was sceptical about the BSPS2. But while Mulberry says Mr T was keen for a clean break, 
he still worked for the same employer and he intended to continue doing so. He was also a 
member of the new DC pension scheme via his employer. So, he wasnt going to achieve a 
clean break by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects. 
I think it also shouldve been mentioned that his employer and the pension scheme trustees 
were not entirely one and the same. This wouldve, in my view, allayed his concerns about 
the BSPS2.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Mulberry shouldve 
reassured Mr T that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. 
Mr T was unlikely to be able to exceed the income available to him through the PPF at age 
58 by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the 
income was still guaranteed and wasnt subject to any investment risk. And it seems to me 
the pension on offer through the PPF wouldve been sufficient to meet Mr Ts needs in 
retirement when considered alongside his other income sources. So, I dont think that these 
concerns shouldve led to Mulberry recommending Mr T transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.  
Death benefits 
At the time of the advice, Mulberry mentioned different death benefits as a benefit of 
transferring. The suitability report said his existing scheme might not be as beneficial or 
provide as flexible death benefits for his wife and children as those if he transferred. 
Of course, when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when 
they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a PP was likely an attractive feature 
to Mr T. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might 
have thought it was a good idea to transfer his existing scheme to a PP because of this, the 
priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provision. A pension 
is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Mulberry explored to 
what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher 
death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr T 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr T predeceased her. I dont think Mulberry made the value of this benefit 
clear enough to Mr T. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it wasnt dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a PP was. And as the 
TVAS showed, if Mr T took an income of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by 
the existing scheme, increasing by RPI per year, the fund (at the medium rate of return) 
would run out at age 81. So, there may not have been a large sum, if any left at all, to pass 
on when Mr T died. In any event, Mulberry should not have encouraged Mr T to prioritise the 
potential for higher death benefits through a PP over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr T genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think 
Mulberry shouldve instead explored life insurance. While I can see from the fact find that 
Mr T said he had decreasing and level term assurance, he also said he thought there was a 
gap in cover of around £120,000 in light of his outstanding mortgages, but Mulberry doesnt 
seem to have discussed bridging this gap with him. And I think this wouldve been a cheaper 
way of Mr T leaving a legacy without him risking his retirement income.
Summary 
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a PP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But Mulberry wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income through either the BSPS2 or the PPF. By 
transferring, Mr T was likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and, in my view, there were 
no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this, particularly 
when Mr T was so far away from his intended retirement age. So, I dont think it was in 
Mr Ts best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a PP now when he had the 
opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mr T had over 14 years before he 
expected to retire, and he didnt know what his needs in retirement would likely be. So, 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr T wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr T was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if    
Mr T chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think Mulberry shouldve advised Mr T to opt into the 
BSPS2.
Ive considered Mulberrys point about the CETV expiring before the scheme trustees could 
confirm the funding requirements of the BSPS2 had been met. But I dont think this point is 
relevant  Mr T had to opt into the BSPS2 before the deadline of 22 December 2017, which 
was also before the scheme would be confirmed as proceeding. So, he wouldve always 
needed to choose to join the BSPS2 knowing that it might not go ahead.
Mulberry says that regardless of the advice given, Mr T made an informed choice to proceed 
with the transfer. And it believes Mr T wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept Mulberry disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr T, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr T to 
transfer out, and I think Mr T relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr T wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, against 
Mulberrys advice. I say this because Mr T was an inexperienced investor and this pension 
accounted for the majority of his retirement provision at the time. So, if Mulberry had 
provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ts fear about the PPF or his concerns about his employer were 
so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. And if Mulberry had explained Mr T was unlikely to exceed the benefits 
available to him through the BSPS2 or the PPF if he transferred out, and that he could meet 
his income needs in retirement without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve 
carried significant weight.
Im aware that in some communications with Mulberry Mr T appeared motivated and anxious 
to get the transfer out completed. But Mr T had received advice from Mulberry that he should 
transfer out of the DB scheme. So, I think his words have to be considered in that context. It 
isnt reasonable to assume that hed have behaved the same way if hed been advised to opt 
into the BSPS2. So, I dont think demonstrates hed have gone against the advice.
In light of the above, I think Mulberry should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Mulberry should also pay Mr T £150 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by this matter. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount in 
the circumstances. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the Mulberry to put Mr T, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for its unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would have 
most likely opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. So, Mulberry should 
use the benefits offered by the BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
We previously asked Mr T whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line with 
current guidance or wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. He didnt make a choice, so Ive assumed in this case that he doesnt want to wait for any new guidance. And 
Im satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr T.
Mulberry must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mr T has no plans at present to retire. So, compensation should be based on his 
normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Mulberry may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ts pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr T within 90 days of the date Mulberry receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Mulberry to pay Mr T.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Mulberry to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Mulberry should also pay Mr T £150 for distress and convenience caused by the unsuitable 
advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that theMulberry pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, 
up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest on that amount in full, as set 
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Mulberry 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr T any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Mulberry Wealth Management Limited pays Mr T the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr T.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Mulberry Wealth 
Management Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman