DRN-1310105
 
The complaint
Mr V complains that Nationwide Building Society has refused to pay him and a friend an 
account switch incentive.
What happened
Mr V says he and a friend took advantage of Nationwide's account switch incentive that 
ought to have meant they both received £100 but Nationwide refused to pay them. Mr V 
says that is unfair and believes the conditions were met and would like the incentive paid.
Nationwide says the terms and conditions for the incentive were not met and says it hasn't 
made a mistake by not making the payment. It says it can't, due to data protection issues, 
tell Mr V the exact reason but says it has told him the types of reasons why the incentive 
isn't paid. 
Mr V brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide's terms and conditions made clear the requirements for an incentive to 
be paid and didn't think those requirements were met. The investigator didn't think 
Nationwide could provide any further information to Mr V.
Mr V doesn't accept that view and would like the incentive paid as he met the requirements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that Nationwide hasn't made a mistake, and so I can't fairly order it to pay Mr V 
the incentive. I realise Mr V will be disappointed with my decision.
I have looked at the switch terms and conditions and can see that both parties have to meet 
Nationwide's requirements before the switch incentive is paid. I have also looked at 
Nationwide's records and I'm satisfied that Mr V met those requirements but the other party 
did not. I appreciate Mr V's frustration in those circumstances but I'm satisfied that both 
parties have to meet the requirements not just one. And it would be for that other party to 
complain if that person believed the requirements were met. I make clear that based on the 
evidence I have seen that isn't the case and the requirements were not met.
I appreciate that Mr V may wish to know more about why the application was refused but I'm 
sure he appreciates that the information doesn't relate to him but to his friend. In those 
circumstances I don't think Nationwide is obliged to share that information with Mr V.
Overall I'm satisfied that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this complaint and hasn't made a 
mistake. I'm also satisfied it has done what it can to explain to Mr V why he wasn't eligible for 
the switch incentive. And that it doesn't matter that Mr V may have met all the switch 
incentive requirements as I'm satisfied both parties needed to do so.My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman