DRN-3901068
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made the decision to remove his overdraft 
without prior discussion. 
What happened
Mr G, a long-standing customer of Barclays, has had an overdraft limit of £1,000 since 
opening the account in the early 80s.
In May 2022, following a review of his account, Barclays wrote to Mr G to say it had made 
the decision to remove his overdraft at the end of June 2022. The letter outlined Mr G could 
contact Barclays if he wanted to keep the overdraft and if he thought Barclays had used 
outdated information to make its decision.
Unhappy with the Barclays proposed actions and because it had failed to discuss the matter 
before reaching a conclusion, Mr G complained.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint. It noted Mr Gs disappointment that it had made a 
decision without prior communication, but it said that it had given Mr G seven weeks notice 
to act. It went on to explain that it had an obligation (set by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority or FCA) to be a responsible lender. This meant reviewing customers 
overdraft facilities to ensure they were affordable. Barclays clarified it had considered Mr Gs 
lack of usage of the facility for the previous 12 months before reaching the decision that his 
overdraft had been set too high. It did however, again highlight that given the length of time 
Mr G had been with the bank, it was likely the data it had for him was out of date so it invited 
him to provide updated information should Mr G want Barclays to re-review its decision. 
Still unhappy with the situation, Mr G referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. The investigator quoted the 
terms and conditions of the account which showed the overdraft wasnt fixed. He also noted 
Barclays had provided more than the 30 days notice required and found that it had provided 
Mr G a reasonable opportunity to appeal the decision.
As Mr G disagreed, he asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint is Barclays decision to withdraw the overdraft facility. I 
acknowledge Mr Gs frustration - he had been a long standing customer and the facility had 
been in place since the account had been opened - so I recognise why he didnt expect 
Barclays to take this action without speaking to him first.
Ultimately though, the pre-existing relationship  however healthy  doesnt mean that 
Barclays ought to have handled this matter any differently. I say this because the bank has a 
number of regulatory obligations to fulfil including whether its lending limits remained 
appropriate. Given the information Barclays has shared, Im still satisfied that it was fairly 
seeking to discharge those regulatory obligations in the actions it took here.
I have also thought about the notification of the banks decision to withdraw the facility. 
Barclays sent Mr G a letter on 6 May 2022. That provided Mr G with around seven weeks 
notice, so Im satisfied this provided Mr G sufficient opportunity to take action given the 
banks usual notice period of 30 days. 
In addition, the letter made particular mention about the lack of up to date financial 
information it held. It invited Mr G to respond but as he didnt reply to the 6 May 2022 letter 
or the further two that followed, the overdraft was withdrawn. Like the investigator, Im 
satisfied that Barclays did nothing wrong when it chose to withdraw facility. The decision was 
a legitimate exercise of the banks commercial judgment. And although I recognise Mr Gs 
strength of feeling, this does not mean that the bank cannot review and, if it chooses to, 
withdraw the arrangement it has with a customer.
In summary, Barclays was not obliged to provide the overdraft facility so, whilst Mr G 
believes that he wasnt treated fairly, Im satisfied that Barclays has not acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman