DRN-4321956
The complaint
Mr W is a sole trader. He complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly closed his business 
bank account.
What happened
Barclays told us:
It carried out a Know Your Customer (KYC) review of Mr Ws account. It initially wrote 
to him on 27 January 2021 seeking information, then sent him reminders in March 
and April 2021.
On 29 October 2021 it sent Mr W a Notice to Close (NTC), explaining that it had not 
received the information it had requested and so it intended to close his account in 
60 days time.
It made three attempts to call Mr W during April and May 2022, and left messages 
asking him to call back. He did not do so.
It still did not receive the information it had requested, and so it closed Mr Ws 
account on 15 August 2022.
The terms and conditions of its agreement with Mr W say it will not compensate 
customers for claims for loss of reputation, business, or opportunity. In addition, 
where a complaint is on behalf of a business it will not compensate an individual 
personally for any distress suffered.
Mr W told us:
He did not receive the letters Barclays says it sent him. If he had received the letters, 
he would have responded to them.
He accepts that Barclays might have tried to call him on his mobile, but he lives and 
works in a rural area and often has difficulties getting a phone signal. He does not 
believe that Barclays left a message; if it had done so he would have called back.
Barclays closed his account on a random date and without any prior notification, 
which was devastating to him. He lost access to his funds for several weeks, and had 
to carry out significant administration work to open a new Barclays account.
One of investigators looked at this complaint, but did not uphold it. He was satisfied that 
Barclays was acting within the terms and conditions of Mr Ws account when it decided to 
end its banking relationship with Mr W.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 August 2023. Briefly, my findings 
were:
I was satisfied that Barclays did send the letters it says it sent to Mr W, that it wrote to 
the correct address, and that Mr W did not respond.
However, I didnt think it was fair for Barclays to close Mr Ws bank account on 15 
August 2022.
Barclays error meant that Mr W didnt have access to his funds. It should 
compensate him by paying interest on those funds, at a rate of 8% simple, from the 
date his account was closed until the date he was able to access the funds again.
In addition, I considered that Barclays error caused Mr W to suffer entirely avoidable 
distress and inconvenience. Barclays should therefore pay him £300 to apologise.
In more detail, I said:
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet 
their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means  as in this 
case  that a bank chooses to carry out a KYC review.
Barclays has not provided me with recordings of the messages it says it left for Mr W 
in April and May 2022. But Barclays is not claiming that it gave Mr W any information 
in those messages (it simply says it asked him to call back). So I dont think I need to 
decide whether Mr W actually received the messages; in either case he would not 
have known any more about the banks KYC process.
On the other hand, I think Barclays letters did explain clearly what Mr W needed to 
do. Barclays has not been able to provide copies of the specific letters sent to Mr W, 
but it has been able to provide the template it used, and given me the dates it wrote 
to Mr W and the address it used. Ive noted Mr Ws comments, but on balance I think 
its likely he did receive Barclays KYC letters. Im satisfied that Barclays sent the 
letters to Mr Ws correct address, and I consider it very unlikely that all of the letters 
would have gone astray.
In my view, the NTC Barclays sent to Mr W in October 2021 was a clear indication 
that Barclays intended to close Mr Ws account 60 days later (that is, in late 
December 2021 or early January 2022). I am satisfied that the terms and conditions 
of Mr Ws Barclays account allowed Barclays to close the account in those 
circumstances. If Barclays had closed Mr Ws account in late December 2021 or 
early January 2022, it is unlikely that I would have said that it had done anything 
wrong.
However, Barclays did not in fact close Mr Ws account in January 2022. Nor did it do 
anything after that date to suggest to Mr W that the closure of his account was 
imminent. By August 2022, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr W to have 
assumed that Barclays had changed its mind about its decision to close his account. 
I consider that Barclays was therefore wrong to close Mr Ws account on a random 
date (as Mr W put it) and without prior warning.
I also note that Barclays appears to have had ample opportunity to tell Mr W about its 
intentions. He told us that visited a Barclays branch once or twice a month  and so if the branch staff had known about the impending closure, they could have told him. I 
acknowledge that in practice the branch staff are unlikely to have known, but I think 
that means Barclays missed an opportunity to explain its intentions.
Putting things right
I acknowledge that Barclays terms and conditions say that it wont pay compensation 
for loss of business, loss of goodwill, loss of opportunity or loss of profit. But Im 
required to reach an outcome that I consider is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. Here, Barclays error meant Mr W did not have 
access to his money, and I think it is fair for Barclays to pay compensation for that.
Subject to any further evidence or arguments that I receive by the date shown at the 
top of this decision, I think it would be fair for Barclays to pay Mr W interest at 8% 
simple on the balance of his account for the period he didnt have access to his 
money. If Mr W believes his losses are higher than that, he should explain why and 
provide supporting evidence in his response to this provisional decision.
I also acknowledge that this complaint is made by a business  but it is not made by 
a limited company. Mr W is a sole trader, meaning that he and his business are not 
separate legal entities, and they cannot be separated from each other. I think 
Barclays poor customer service caused him avoidable distress, and he should be 
compensated for that.
Taking into account all the evidence, and applying my own judgement, I consider that 
Barclays should pay Mr W £300 to apologise for its poor service.
Barclays and Mr W both accepted my provisional findings. Barclays said that Mr W did not 
have access to his account for 25 days, and that it calculated compensatory interest as 
£359.02. Mr W asked me to note that he doesnt make a habit of complaining, but he felt 
strongly that Barclays level of service was appalling. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. I now confirm those provisional conclusions as final.
Putting things right
Barclays should settle the complaint in the way I proposed in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr W:
Interest at 8% simple on the balance of his closed account, calculated from the date 
the account was closed until the data he had access to the money again; plus
£300 for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman