DRN-3401338
The complaint
Mr V complains that MBNA Limited have unfairly registered a default against him.
What happened
Mr V had a credit card with MBNA. As Mr V says he was suffering financial difficulties, he
signed a debt management plan with a debt management charity, on 4 March 2020, who
confirmed to Mr V on 13 March 2020, that his plan was in force and would start on 1 April
2020. This resulted in Mr V paying a lower payment than his contractual monthly minimum
payment for the MBNA credit card.
Mr V says that due to the pandemic his employer furloughed him from 15 April 2020  1
August 2020. Due to lockdown, Mr V says he looked for a job as a critical worker and was
taken on at a farm on 27 April 2020, 150 miles from where he lived. Mr V says that a
requirement for the job was that he would live there while working for the company. His
contract finished on 24 June 2020.
Mr V says that after this contract, he stayed with a friend before travelling overseas to see
his family, as lockdown restrictions had been eased where they lived. When he returned to
England, he looked for a new place to live. He said that he began contacting companies on
24 July 2020, to inform them of his new address. When he rang MBNA, they informed him
that his account had defaulted.
Mr V said if he only knew this would happen, then he would have been able to pay MBNA at
least £500 every month as he was working on the farm in addition to receiving 80% of his
salary through furlough, to avoid the default, as he is looking to get a mortgage in the next
few years. The default would affect his chances of doing so. Mr V made a complaint to
MBNA. He says he received a letter on 31 August 2020, informing him that MBNA had sold
his debt to a third party and he should make further payments to the third party.
Mr V had again travelled overseas, but when he returned back, he says he hadnt received
any post regarding his complaint, so he contacted MBNA. He says he was told that the final
response letter had been posted to him at the beginning of August, however, he says he did
not receive this.
MBNA did not uphold Mr Vs complaint. They said that even though Mr V had set up a plan
through the debt management charity, the account would have defaulted regardless, due to
the time it had been in arrears. MBNA also said that although Mr V had not received their
intention to default the account, due to his change of address, it was Mr Vs responsibility to
keep them up to date with any changes.
Mr V brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She
said that the default applied as Mr V spent a significant time being in financial difficulty and
missing payments. She also said that as MBNA corresponded to the address they had on
file for Mr V, then MBNA had done nothing wrong.
Mr V asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he didnt receive
correspondence, which was sent by MBNA in August 2020, he received irrelevant emails
from MBNA during the pandemic, when he was already with the debt management charity,
but they didnt send important communications via email or text message. Mr V said he was
dealing with several other financial institutions at the same time and he had no issues with
any communication from the other companies, just MBNA.
Mr V said that the root cause of his situation was the events surrounding the pandemic, so
he took a job to make up for the 20% loss in salary that he would be suffering during his time
furloughed. Mr V said that the payment made to MBNA was only £7 less per month and he
wondered whether MBNA had managed his correspondence appropriately during the
pandemic.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Ive considered what Mr V has said regarding the root cause of the situation being the
pandemic. While the pandemic may have escalated the initial situation, Im not persuaded
this was the root cause of the problems. I say this as Mr V did not make the minimum
payment which was detailed on his December 2019 statement. The direct debit payment
which Mr V made on 20 January 2020, was unpaid. This started the arrears on the account.
The following month, the direct debit of £116.65 was also unpaid, which increased the
arrears. There was no payment to the account in the following month, so this meant that
there were three consecutive months where there was no payment on the account.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. Ive listened to the call which Mr V had with MBNA on 4 March 2020. Ill not go into
the specific personal nature of Mr Vs financial difficulties or what led up to this, but I can
assure Mr V Im aware of the circumstances he was in at the time. The reason he was in
financial difficulty initially was not due to coronavirus. Its important to note that this call was
before any UK lockdowns were in place and before the furlough scheme was available. And
Mr V had already missed several payments, so I cant say that the coronavirus was the root
cause here.
But I do agree that the pandemic played a part in the next events that occurred. It was
because Mr V was furloughed that he sought to make up the shortfall in his wages and even
earn potentially more money than he may have done if he wasnt furloughed and was
working as normal. So for this reason he needed to move 150 miles from where hed been
living, to start work at the farm.
But Mr V did not inform MBNA that he had changed his address. While he may have thought
that the arrangement he made with the debt management charity would prevent a default
from occurring, informing MBNA of any changes to his details was part of the terms and
conditions that he would have agreed to when he became a customer of MBNAs. Ive
looked at MBNAs website which shows the terms and conditions state you must tell us if
your name or contact details change by calling us or going online. Otherwise, we will
continue using the details you last gave us. We are not responsible if we cannot contact you
or if we send confidential information to the wrong address using those details.Ive considered what Mr V has said about him being able to pay MBNA £500 a month in
June 2020, if he had known what would happen. This would suggest his overall income was
higher than when he was normally working, which would make sense as hes said he would
work for six days on and one day off at the farm. But Mr V should have contacted MBNA
when his circumstances changed if he was able to make higher payments, as his terms and
conditions of the account state you must let us know as soon as possible if your
circumstances change in a way that we may not otherwise know about and that may change
our assessment of your financial standing.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr V had contacted MBNA after his call with them in March 2020
until his account defaulted later in the year, despite his circumstances changing since he
originally spoke to them about his financial difficulties. The letter MBNA sent to his registered
address dated 24 March 2020 - before he was furloughed - also states If your
circumstances change and you think you'll be able to make repayments to your account,
please contact us on the number above so we can review the position with you.
This letter confirmed that MBNA would write to him again in 30 days (which they did). The
March 2020 letter also confirmed that the account would be passed to their recoveries team,
how they would close his account, the impact on his credit score and his ability to borrow
money in the future and the balance that would be immediately due to prevent a default from
being registered. The letter ends by saying if he has any questions then he needs to get in
touch with them today. So I do think the letter is clear on what would happen and that they
would write to him in 30 days. So Mr V should have ensured they had his correct address.
I appreciate that Mr Vs circumstances changed quickly over a short period of time due to the
pandemic and it may not have occurred to him to either update MBNA of his address or his
change in earnings, but I cant hold MBNA responsible for this.
When the default was registered in June 2020, this was 5-6 months after arrears were first
showing on the account. So while Mr V says that his payments were only £7 less than what
they would normally be (MBNA dispute this and say it was around £13 less than they
normally would be), the arrears were still showing on his account. As I previously mentioned,
MBNA could have registered a default after three months of arrears, so I cant say they did
anything wrong by registering the default when they did.
Ive then considered what Mr V has said about not receiving the correspondence in August.
Receiving this letter would have not affected the default being registered, as it had already
been registered, but it would have saved Mr V chasing up MBNA. But as the letter was sent
to his updated registered address, I cant hold MBNA responsible for any errors which may
have occurred with the postal system.
Mr V has commented about receiving irrelevant emails from MBNA during the pandemic,
when he was already with the debt management charity, but they didnt send important
communications via email or text message. But MBNA are required by the regulator 
Financial Conduct Authority, to send certain information or notices by post. They would not
be able to send this information by a text message for example, so I cant say theyve done
anything wrong by how theyve attempted to communicate this with Mr V.
Mr V has said he was dealing with other financial companies at the time he was speaking to
MBNA. And he had no issues with communications with the other companies. But here, Im
only able to look into the merits of his complaint with MBNA and not how other companies
have dealt with him. Each company is likely to have their own policies and procedures in
place. Here, I need to consider whether MBNA have treated Mr V reasonably and Im
persuaded they have for the reasons Ive previously given.In summary, in order to ask MBNA to remove the default, I would need to see that they had
registered the default incorrectly. But as the account was in arrears for several months and
they had sent letters to Mr Vs registered address with the implications of this and what
would happen, including notices of defaults, then Im satisfied that MBNA acted in the
circumstances as I would expect them to. I understand this decision may have an impact on
Mr V getting a mortgage in the future, so I havent made this decision lightly, but it follows I
dont intend to ask MBNA to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. MBNA responded and they said they had no further points to add. Mr V responded 
and he said he had received my provisional decision, but he did not ask for any further 
points to be considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman