DRN-1917365
Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 2003 with 
an Egg credit card. Miss O says Canada Square Operations Limited trading as Egg, 
(Canada Square) mis-sold her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Miss O says she would never have requested PPI and it was something that was added 
automatically. Her application was made online and she says the PPI section was pre-ticked 
without an option to remove it. Canada Square says it was added to her account after she 
requested cover. Where there is a dispute like this, I have to decide what I think is more 
likely based on the available evidence - this includes Miss Os testimony and any documents 
both Miss O and Canada Square have submitted. 
Canada Square has given us examples of the online screens Miss O wouldve been 
expected to complete in her online application and these show that customers were given a 
choice to add or decline PPI. CanadaSquare provided its online customers with the option to 
either click Yes to add PPI, or No to decline it. I can also see from Canada Squares record 
of her application that PPI was selected. Ive also seen Miss Os credit card statements and 
the PPI clearly appears on them. 
Weve seen a number of cases from around the time Miss O bought her PPI and have 
developed a good understanding of Canada Squares usual process when selling PPI online. 
And we havent seen any evidence that the PPI options were pre-selected. 
Having thought carefully about everything Ive seen and heard, and while I appreciate 
Miss Os strength of feeling regarding this, I think its more likely that Miss O clicked the Yes 
box and selected PPI. So, overall, I think Canada Square made it clear that Miss O didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Canada Square advised Miss O to take the PPI, 
so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss O got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square gave Miss O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as Ive said, I think its more likely she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time, she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it wouldve been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
Miss O says her employer provided her with good sick pay and she also had some savings 
she couldve used to help her make repayments if she had found herself unexpectedly out of 
work. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay her employed provided and for 
up to 12 months if Miss O couldnt work because illness, injury or unemployment. Having the 
policy also left her savings available for other essential expenditure. 
Overall, I think having a policy pay out in difficult times for up to 12 months would still have 
been useful for her. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. With all this in mind, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss O.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2020.
Asma Begum
Ombudsman