The complaint
Ms H and Mr R complain that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined 
their pet insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Ms H took out a pet insurance policy on-line for her dog, paid for by her partner Mr R. 
Red Sands was the insurer. The policy gave lifetime cover subject to the policy terms and 
limits while the policy was in force. 
In summer 2019 the dog was treated for ventral dermatitis with secondary bacterial 
dermatitis, a skin condition, and Ms H made a claim.
Red Sands declined the claim for two reasons:
it said the claimed for skin condition was related to a skin condition the dog had seen
a vet for in the first 14 days of the policy starting, so there was no cover under the
policy terms, and
as the dog had clinical signs of a skin condition within the first 14 days of the policy
Red Sands applied a specific exclusion for all claims with respect to allergies of any
cause and all claims with respect to skin conditions with effect from the start of the
policy. It applied the specific exclusion to decline the 2019 claim.
Ms H and Mr R complained to us. They said their dogs vet told Red Sands that the skin 
condition in 2018, a rash on the dogs nose, wasnt related to the 2019 rash on her stomach. 
Our investigator said Red Sands fairly declined the claim. Ms H and Mr R disagree and want 
an ombudsmans decision. They said our investigator had ignored their vets opinion that the 
two conditions werent related.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint. I have to decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim. I dont think it fairly said the two skin conditions were related but I think it 
could fairly apply and use the specific exclusion to decline the 2019 claim. Ill explain why.
were the skin conditions related?
The dogs vet records show that on 15 August 2018 she was treated for staph dermatitis 
affecting nasal area. That treatment happened within the first 14 days of the policy start 
DRN-1356144date. The policy is clear theres no cover for an illness that first showed clinical signs before 
of within the first 14 days of the policy.
Red Sands say the 2018 and 2019 skin conditions are related. Ive seen the general 
research information its sent about staph dermatitis and note its point that the same 
treatment was given for both conditions. But the dogs vet told Red Sands that the dog :
was seen for a skin problem, a suspected staph dermatitis affecting the nasal area. This 
was treated and resolved and as you know these juvenile acnes are common in female 
(relevant breed) as puppy's and often resolve with age.
The skin problem treated in June of this year and subsequently was substantially different in 
nature and presented as a ventral dermatitis and skin flair with a secondary bacterial 
dermatitis. Given the age and distribution of the skin lesions on (the dog) this was typical of 
atopy or allergic dermatitis as opposed to the previous skin condition and are therefore very 
unlikely to be related.
Im persuaded by the treating vets clear evidence that the two skin problems are very 
unlikely to be related. I dont think Red Sands fairly declined the claim on the basis that the 
2019 skin condition was related to the skin condition the dog was treated for in the first 14 
days of the policy.
can Red Sands fairly apply and rely on the specific policy exclusion?
The policy is clear that if Ms H and Mr Rs dog first showed any clinical signs, had an illness 
or was diagnosed with a condition before the policy started or within the first 14 days of the 
policy Red Sands can apply an exclusion to the policy in respect of the clinical sign, illness 
or condition. As part of the on-line sales process Ms H would have ticked to confirm she read 
information which said the same.
Ive seen Red Sands underwriting guidance which says if the dog had acne and/or 
dermatitis Red Sands would apply the specific exclusion for all claims with respect to skin 
conditions.
Its clear from the above vets evidence that while he thought the two skin conditions were 
unrelated both were skin conditions.
Red Sands backdated the specific exclusion for skin conditions to the start of the policy. I 
only think its fair for an insurer to do that in certain circumstances. I dont have evidence to 
show those circumstances were met for it to be fair for Red Sands to backdate the exclusion 
to the start of the policy.
However, that doesnt make any difference to the outcome of this complaint because I think 
it would have been fair for Red Sands to apply the skin conditions exclusion from the date 
the dog showed signs of the 2018 skin condition, which was within the first 14 days of the 
policy. That means Red Sands could fairly and reasonably rely on the exclusion for skin 
conditions to decline the 2019 claim.
Another part of the specific exclusion was for claims for allergies of any cause. I dont need 
to make a decision as to whether that part of the exclusion was fairly added as Red Sands 
could rely on the skin conditions exclusion and Ms H has told us shes cancelled the policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman