DRN-2907331
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd couldnt recover money that hed accidentally 
transferred to an incorrect recipient.
What happened
Mr P made three payments on consecutive days from his Monzo account totalling £290. 
Unfortunately, Mr P inputted the incorrect account number such that the money wasnt 
received by the intended recipient but was sent instead to an unknown third-party.
When Mr P realised what had happened, he raised the issue with Monzo, who then sought 
to recover the money from the bank to whom the money had been sent. However, the 
recipient bank advised Monzo that they were unable to return the money to them because 
the funds were no longer present in the recipients bank account. Mr P wasnt happy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Monzo looked at Mr Ps complaint, but they felt that they hadnt committed any form of error, 
and so they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P wasnt satisfied with Monzos response, so he 
referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but 
they also felt that Monzo hadnt done anything wrong, and so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how upsetting it must have been for Mr P to have discovered that the money that 
hed sent hadnt been received by the intended recipient, especially given that Mr P sent the 
money with the intention of paying for essential services.
Where a bank is informed that money has been sent to the wrong, what this service would 
expect would be that the bank would act quickly to recover the money for their account 
holder  if such a recovery is possible.
I can only conclude that Monzo did that here. They approached the recipients bank on the 
same day that Mr P made them aware of what had happened, but Monzo were later told by 
the recipients bank that the money couldnt be returned to them because it was no longer in 
the recipients account.
Its difficult to see what else Monzo could have done in this situation, and while it is within the 
remit of this service to instruct a bank to credit a customers account if a transaction has 
been sent incorrectly, such an instruction would generally only be considered if it could be 
demonstrated that the bank had made some form of error which had contributed to the 
transfer being sent to the incorrect recipient or subsequently being not recovered.
But this isnt the case in this instance, and thats because the money was sent to the wrong 
recipient because Mr P inputted the incorrect account number, and the money wasnt 
returned to Monzo because the recipient bank wouldnt return it. 
Im aware that Mr P feels that Monzo should have systems in place to verify a recipients 
account details before a transfer is sent, and I can confirm that Monzo do subscribe to a 
verification programme such as Mr P is referring to here. 
However, such verification is only possible if both Monzo and the recipient bank subscribe to 
that system. And in this instance, the recipient bank doesnt subscribe to that system, and so 
account verification couldnt be provided. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied from the screenshots provided to this service by Monzo that Mr P 
was informed at the time that he made the transfers that account verification wasnt possible 
for this reason - and given that Mr P elected to go ahead with the transfers in light of this 
information, I wouldnt consider holding Monzo accountable for this.
Mr P has also stated that he feels that Monzo didnt meet their obligations to provide him 
clear and accurate information on the options that he had available to him following Monzo 
being unable to recover the money from the recipient bank. However, I note that Monzo did 
advise Mr P that they can contact the recipient bank and request the recipients name and 
address, and that Mr P could then consider legal proceedings against the recipient using this 
information.
This is what this service would expect Monzo to have advised Mr P in these circumstances, 
and its my understanding that this option remains available to Mr P should he wish to 
instruct Monzo to pursue it.
Finally, I note Mr Ps statements about his health and that he is considered as being a 
vulnerable customer. While I sympathise with Mr Ps position here, given that Im satisfied 
that Monzo cant be considered at fault either for the money being sent to the wrong 
recipient or that the money couldnt be recovered from that recipient, I dont feel that I can 
fairly instruct Monzo to bear the cost for what has happened here by instructing Monzo to 
reimburse the sent money to Mr Ps account in the manner that Mr P would like. 
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Monzo to take any 
further action at this time. I hope that Mr P can recover the transferred money via alternative 
means, and also that he will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman