DRN-3556324
The complaint
Mrs D complains that a car acquired with finance from MotoNovo Finance Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020 Mrs D was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. Soon after getting the car Mrs D experienced issues with overheating. The 
car was returned to the dealership for repairs, but the issues continued. Mrs D reported the 
issue to MotoNovo in July 2020. Following this, the car was returned to the dealer and 
further repairs were carried out in August 2020.
In September 2020 an independent report confirmed that the car was performing as 
expected. However, In October 2020 the car overheated again, and a local garage advised 
Mrs D that the head gasket needed to be replaced. The car was returned to the supplying 
dealer who said it couldnt find a fault with the head gasket but replaced the pressure cap.
In November 2020 the car was independently inspected. The report stated that the head 
gasket had failed and that the fault was likely to have been present or developing at the point 
of supply. The car was returned to the garage in December 2020 for repairs to the head 
gasket. The repairs werent completed until March 2021.
In November 2021 Mrs D experienced smoke coming from the engine. A recovery company 
who attended diagnosed a blown head gasket.
MotoNovo arranged another inspection in November 2021. This diagnosed a breach in the 
head gasket due to wear and tear of the cylinder bolts. The engineer said the fault wouldnt 
have been present at the point of supply.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. In my decision, I said that I 
was satisfied that there was a fault with the head gasket. I considered whether the repairs 
caried out in March 2021 had been successful and concluded that they had not. I said that I 
didnt think a reasonable person would expect a part which had been repaired to fail again 
after only 8 months. I said that, given that the car had been diagnosed with a failed head 
gasket in November 2021, I thought it was more likely that the repairs to the head gasket 
hadnt been successful. I said that Mrs D should be allowed to reject the car.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to make.
Mrs D replied and said she agreed with my provisional decision. She said she was unaware 
of what repairs had been carried out to the car in March 2021 and expressed concern that 
these repairs had been caried out by the supplying dealer, in whom she had lost confidence 
due to the ongoing problems with the car.
MotoNovo replied and said it hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that it was responsible for 
the current head gasket failure.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account the further comments of both parties. Having done so, my decision 
hasnt changed. I still think that the repairs to the head gasket which were carried out in 
March 2021 werent successful, because the head gasket failed again only 8 months later. 
Looking at the history of the car, I think its likely that there has been an inherent fault with 
the head gasket since the point of supply which hasnt been successfully repaired.
Putting things right
To put things right, MotoNovo should allow Mrs D to reject the car. 
Mrs D hasnt been able to use the car since 21 November 2021 because of the fault with the 
head gasket. I think Mrs D acted reasonably by not using the car. I dont think its fair to 
expect Mrs D to make payments for a car shes unable to use, so MotoNovo should refund 
all monthly payments made since 21 November 2021.
Mrs D has provided evidence to show that shes paid for a turbo to be replaced. This came 
about because the car was overheating and wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think its fair to 
ask MotoNovo to refund these costs.
Mrs D has already had a payment for distress and inconvenience so I wont be asking 
MotoNovo to pay an further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. MotoNovo Finance Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs D
Refund the deposit/part exchange contribution of £3000
Refund all monthly payments made since 21 November 2021
Refund the cost of repairs to the turbo £255
Pay 8% simple interest on all amounts refunded from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Ds credit file in relation to this agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman