DRN-2675301
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as 4, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the 
money its lost to a scam.
Mr D, who is a director of 4, brings the complaint on 4s behalf.
Whats happened?
Mr D has told us that he placed a goods order with one of 4s regular suppliers (the 
supplier) on 1 November 2019. He received an email requesting a 50% deposit, which is 
standard practice, and attached to the email was an invoice. Everything looked like it had 
when he had dealt with the supplier before  the email appeared to come from the right 
email address, the genuine invoice template was used and the invoice had the right details 
on it. Only the suppliers account details had changed. Mr D says he didnt find this unusual 
because other companies he has dealt with have changed their account details over time 
too. 
Unbeknown to Mr D, a fraudster had intercepted the suppliers email and changed the 
account details on the invoice. So when Mr D paid the invoice on 4 November 2019 using 
online banking, he transferred £23,724 to the fraudsters account, rather than the suppliers 
as he intended.
Mr D didnt receive confirmation of a delivery date after paying the invoice as he expected to, 
so he called the supplier. The supplier said they hadnt received the payment hed made, 
and the fraud came to light. Mr D raised a scam claim with Barclays on 12 November 2019. 
Barclays refunded £11,862 to 4s account on 10 January 2020. It said it would cover 50% of 
4s loss because it didnt get in touch with the receiving bank in an attempt to recover any 
remaining funds in the beneficiary account as quickly as it shouldve. But Mr D ignored an 
effective warning it gave during the payment journey and didnt carry out sufficient checks 
with the supplier, especially as he was aware the account details on the invoice were 
different to the ones hed been given previously. So it didnt agree to reimburse all the 
money 4 had lost.
What did our investigator say?
One of our investigators looked into 4s complaint. He wasnt satisfied that the warning 
Barclays gave was an effective warning under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code), and he thought Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief 
when he made the payment. He concluded that Barclays should have fully reimbursed 4 
under the CRM Code.
Barclays didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment scams, like the one 4 has been the 
victim of, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Barclays has argued that two of the 
exceptions apply in this case. It says that 4 ignored an effective warning it gave during the 
payment journey and it made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that the 
payee was the person it was expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or 
services and/or the person or business it was transacting with was legitimate.
I understand that 4 is Barclays customer, but in deciding this case, I think its fair to consider 
Mr Ds state of mind, as the employee that paid the intercepted invoice.
The CRM Code says:
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria 
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the 
Customer
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in 
Principle 7 of the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for 
Businesses
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner 
whereby the likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should 
include steps to ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the 
consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment;
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on 
the Customers decision-making;
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and the APP scam risk identified by 
analytics during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the 
Customer.
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclays gave the following warning during 
the payment journey: 
Stay safe from scams
Genuine companies can be impersonated by scammers so verify their details by phoning 
them on a trusted number, especially if you receive an urgent transfer request by phone or 
email.
I appreciate that Barclays tried to give Mr D an effective warning in this case. But overall, Im 
not satisfied it can reasonably be said that the requirements of the effective warning 
exception were met. I dont think the warning was impactful enough to affect a customers 
decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood of this scam succeeding was reduced.
Its clear to me that Barclays warning attempts to prevent invoice interception scams, but 
I dont think the warning makes the risk obvious to its customers. The warning says that 
genuine companies can be impersonated and tells customers to verify details via telephone 
but it doesnt explain how fraudsters impersonate genuine companies or really bring to life 
what this type of scam looks like  it doesnt make it clear that fraudsters intercept genuine 
emails from companies and change the account details on invoices to their own. Nor does it 
talk about the prevalence of this type of scam or explain how sophisticated the scams can be 
 it doesnt say that emails and invoices can appear genuine and look the same or very 
similar to genuine emails and invoices received from a company. I consider that the part of the warning which refers to receiving an urgent transfer request 
has the potential to mislead customers into thinking that there is only a risk, or at least that 
the risk is greater, if the request is urgent. But this type of scam usually occurs when a 
payment request is expected, and more often than not, the request isnt urgent. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that a reasonable person would fully understand the scam risk from 
the warning Barclays gave.
The circumstances of this scam made the warning even less effective. Mr D says he had 
placed orders with the supplier several times before. He received an invoice he was 
expecting to receive which looked like invoices he had received from the supplier in the past, 
and the invoice was attached to an email which appeared to come from the correct email 
address. There was no sense of urgency to the communication. From what Ive seen, I dont 
think Mr D appreciated there was a risk that the suppliers email may have been intercepted 
by a fraudster who was tricking him into make a payment to their own account. If Barclays 
had really brought to life what a scam of this nature looks like then I think this wouldve been 
important information in the context of this scam that wouldve affected Mr Ds decision 
making and led him to take additional steps to protect 4s assets such as telephoning the 
supplier to verify the account details, particularly as hed noticed theyd changed.
Im satisfied that Mr D had a reasonable basis for belief. I acknowledge that he didnt attempt 
to call the supplier on a trusted number as advised, and that he was aware the account 
details had changed on the invoice hed received. But I havent seen any evidence of 
Barclays educating 4 on this type of fraud, and as Ive said above, I dont think Barclays 
made the scam risk clear. I understand that the supplier had successfully fulfilled around 15 
of 4s previous orders, so there was an element of trust in a company that Mr D had 
transacted with before with no issues. Ive compared the fraudulent email and invoice to 
genuine ones and I dont think its unreasonable that Mr D wasnt suspicious. And Mr D has 
said it isnt unusual for companies he pays to change their account details over time, so that 
wasnt a red flag for him. Overall, the fraud was sophisticated and I can understand why it 
went undetected by Mr D.
To conclude, Im satisfied that Barclays should have refunded the money 4 lost under the 
terms of the CRM Code. I am not persuaded that any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
reimburse 4s loss minus any amount which has previously been refunded or 
recovered from the beneficiary account within 28 days of receiving notification of 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay 8% simple interest per year from the date 4 should have received a full refund 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 4 to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman