DRN-3795616
The Complaint
Mr P says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance) 
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the 
CCA) in relation to a holiday product he purchased using finance on 26 March 2007 (the 
Time of Sale). He also says that the finance in question was arranged by a credit broker 
that wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).
Background to the Complaint
Mr P purchased a holiday product from a third party (the Supplier) at the Time of Sale for 
£25,936. And he used finance from BPF to help make that purchase (the Credit 
Agreement).
Unhappy with what happened, Mr P made claims  using a professional representative (LF) 
 for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA 
on 13 September 2019 (the Letter of Claim). As the reasons for those claims are familiar to 
both sides, it isnt necessary to repeat them here. But as Ive said above, LF also 
complained about the finance being arranged by a credit broker that wasnt authorised by 
the FCA  which LF suggested had rendered the Credit Agreement unenforceable.
A complaint was then referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service in December 2019. It 
was looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information available, came to 
the conclusion that Mr Ps claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA were made out of 
time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr P, who was represented by a different professional representative (M) by the time the 
investigator had issued his assessment, disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision 
without giving any reasons why.
So, the complaint was passed to me. I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 7 October 
2022. In summary, I thought Mr Ps CCA claims had been made out of time under the LA. 
I also pointed out that, as the FCA didnt start regulating consumer credit activities (like credit 
broking) until April 2014, the business that arranged the finance didnt have to be FCA 
authorised at the Time of Sale. And for that reason, I didnt think that was a basis on which 
to uphold the complaint.
Both sides were given the opportunity to submit new evidence and/or arguments in response 
to my PD. But as the deadline for doing so has now been and gone without either side 
adding to what had already been said and/or provided, the complaint has come back to me 
to consider for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Section 75: Misrepresentation
Under the relevant provisions of the LA, a claimant has a period of six years to make a claim 
for misrepresentation  starting from the date on which the cause of action accrued, which is
the point at which a claimant had everything they needed to make a legal claim.
As Mr P says that he entered into the purchase agreement at the Time of Sale because of 
alleged misrepresentations by the Supplier that the Letter of Claim suggests he relied on, he 
had six years from when he entered into the purchase agreement and Credit Agreement to 
make this claim as it was when he did so that he suffered a loss.
However, as Mr P didnt submit this claim to BPF until September 2019, it fell outside of the 
relevant time limit set out in the LA. And as I still cant see a reason why that time limit 
should be extended, I think BPF was and is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to the 
claim  which means Im still not persuaded that I need to ask BPF to do anything to put 
things right as far as this claim is concerned.
Section 140A: Unfair Relationship
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr P and BPF was 
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it 
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, Ive reconsidered the provisions under the LA as it also applies to claims under 
Section 140A. It was held in Patel v Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran 
from the date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was 
made. As the limitation period is six years, and as this claim was made more than six years 
after Mr Ps account was closed in December 2008, I continue to think that BPF is entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too as Mr P still doesnt dispute that the Credit 
Agreement ended more than six years before this claim was made.
So, as I cant see a reason why the relevant time limit should be extended, I see no reason 
to ask BPF to do anything further in relation to this claim either.
The Credit Broking
As I said in my PD, the regulation of consumer credit as a whole only became the FCAs 
responsibility on 1 April 2014. As the Credit Agreement was entered into by Mr P in March 
2007, FCA authorisation wasnt a requirement as the Letter of Claim suggests. And as 
nothing further has been said and/or provided in relation to this allegation in response to my 
PD, I still dont think this is a basis on which to uphold this complaint.Conclusion
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not Mr Ps CCA claims have expired under 
the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, such claims against BPF are 
likely to have been made outside of the relevant time limit set out in the LA. And given what 
Ive said about the credit broking complaint, Im not persuaded that BPF needs to do 
anything to put things right on this occasion.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman