DRN-3658061
The complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles (NewDay) irresponsibly gave him a 
running account credit facility that he couldnt afford.
What happened
On 16 June 2015, Mr W applied for and was given a credit card account with NewDay. 
In 2021, Mr W complained to NewDay to say that the account shouldnt have been 
opened for him because it wasnt affordable and that NewDay ought to have made a 
better effort to understand his financial circumstances before increasing his credit.
For reasons covered by the adjudicator, this complaint is focused on the increase to the 
credit limit on this credit card in June 2016. Our adjudicator recommended the complaint 
be upheld in part. NewDay didnt agree. So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 19 July 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint. I set out an extract below:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Ws complaint is that NewDay made credit available that was unaffordable. NewDay has 
explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of 
credit it was able to offer at each stage. Its possible that NewDay failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Mr W with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries 
would have caused NewDay to think the credit was unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit and credit increase were modest and the minimum 
monthly payments for that credit were also relatively modest. From the evidence 
submitted, before June 2016 when the credit limit increased, there were no payment 
issues in the life of this account. And looking at the credit report that has been submitted, 
before June 2016 there were no issues in the way Mr W had been managing any of his 
other accounts. Overall, I have placed more weight on this matter than our adjudicator did; 
that the account was well managed. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr W to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that a 
more thorough affordability check would have led NewDay to think that the credit it 
provided Mr W in 2016 was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that what NewDay 
could see of his management of other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted 
differently than it did. 
I know that Mr W will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr W to know that I 
listened to all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found sufficient 
evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 16 August 2022. Mr Ws representatives have acknowledged 
receiving the provisional decision. But, at the time of writing, neither NewDay nor Mr W have 
made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. I think that both parties 
have had sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if they had wished to. So, I 
am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Mr Ws complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman