DRN-3395258
The complaint
Mr E complained about the service provided by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal). He 
said they had not done what they ought to have done, he been unsuitably advised and as a 
consequence suffered a loss.
What happened
In 2013 Mr E received a letter from Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal). This made him 
aware he may be able to access tax free cash (TFC) from any pension benefits he held. Mr 
E spoke to Portal on 19 March 2013. A fact-find and an attitude to risk document were
completed. This included the following information about Mr E at the time:
He was 56 years old, married and had two grown up children- one still lived at home.
He had been unemployed since March 2012 and was seeking work.
 His wife was retired (aged 62).
They both had high blood pressure and were both receiving pension credits/ state 
benefits.
They lived in local authority rented housing and the rent was covered by state 
benefits.
Mr E had no other pension plans and was in significant debt.
It is understood Mr E had no assets or savings; although one document prepared by 
Portal suggests Mr E had £600 in a savings account, this isnt shown elsewhere.
Mr E had 15 years service in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) with his 
previous employer. This was a Local Government deferred defined benefits plan- it 
appears hed left the relevant employment in 2006.
 There is information from the time to suggest retirement benefits would have 
provided an income of £3,566.19 each year. Spousal benefits were also available.
The OPS had a transfer value of approximately £66,383 at the time of advice.
A transfer report (TVAS) had been completed. The report showed an investment growth of
11.45% was required in order to replace the benefits Mr Es OPS would give him at 
retirement. A retirement age of 65 was recorded in the report
There is a letter dated 20 March 2013 from Portal to Mr E. It sets out that if Mr E wishes to 
proceed with a transfer this will be against their advice and it asks him to complete an 
attached insistent client form if he wants to go ahead. It tells him know that if he wants to go 
ahead, he ought to return the form immediately as the guarantee of the transfer value may 
otherwise expire.
The insistent client form contains a declaration prepared by Portal. It sets out that the 
reasoning for the choice to proceed is that his main priority is to release funds rather than 
retirement planning.
No signed copy of Portals insistent client form was provided to this service.
A report called a Pension release report was prepared on 26 March 2013; it was 
accompanied by a letter from Portal. Portal said their attached report was their suitability 
report.
Portals letter contains the following information:
I am pleased to enclose a copy of our suitability report that includes my recommendation 
If you follow my recommendation you will:
Receive your Tax Free Cash lump sum of circa £16,595.
Have greater long-term flexibility to maintain your pension in line with your risk and 
reward profile.
Receive further advice when you decide to take an income from these funds.
Please read the enclosed suitability report carefully as it contains much more detailed 
information than highlighted above. There are several points that are covered in the 
report that it would be prudent to highlight at this point:
You are aware that by taking benefits now, you are giving up your entitlement to a 
defined benefit.
You are aware that by taking benefits now you will have a reduced pension fund at 
retirement and no further entitlement to a tax free lump sum.
Your investments will be reviewed on a yearly basis.
I believe I have made a recommendation suitable for your situation.
Portals report included the following:
You have decided that you still wish to proceed with Pension Release despite us advising
you not to. We will assist you with this and have treated you as an Insistent Client.
Having considered all of the information available to us including the charging structures of
the transfers, available underlying fund choice, your personal circumstances and other
factors, I have come to the following conclusions:
My recommendation is that:
You transfer your [OPS] to a Personal Pension.
The reason I have recommended a pension transfer is due to the possibility that the benefits 
available at retirement with your recommended new pension will exceed the benefits that 
would have been available through your existing provider. I have considered a wide range of 
pension providers and recommend that your existing policy be transferred to the  Personal 
Pension.
The report also included the following examples of some of the benefits Portal said the
transfer would provide:
Meet your stated objectives and repay your debts.
Be able to take up to 25% of your pension as a Tax Free Cash Lump Sum to meet 
your needs, you have selected to take £16,595.
Portal concluded Mr Es attitude to risk (ATR) was balanced and he wanted to retire at 60. 
Portals recommendation was that after Mr E took the maximum tax-free cash lump sum of
£16,595, the residual fund of £49,788 would be reinvested until he required an income. 
Several times they used the phrase that Mr E would be treated as an Insistent Client. Within 
their report Portal set out the following information:A Lifestyle Strategy is designed to gradually reduce the amount of risk you are exposed to
as the date from which you intend to commence taking an income becomes closer. This is
achieved by progressively reducing the amount you have invested in higher risk sectors,
moving into lower risk areas. We will review this on an annual basis.
The report also set out there was an initial adviser charge of 6.67% of the plan value (after 
the tax-free cash had been deducted); and their ongoing fee was 1% per annum to manage 
his investments. Although different fees were set out elsewhere:
The charges and effects of the charges are shown in the key features document and
illustration. Our initial charge of 5% of the total transfer value is deducted from the residual
fund, so you do not have to find our fee from your Tax Free Cash. There will then be an
ongoing charge of 1% per annum to manage your investments.
The application to transfer was completed and signed by Mr E on 27 March 2013 and the
funds were transferred on 29 May 2013.
In May 2013 Mr Es cash account within his pension plan (a self-invested pension plan 
(SIPP) with LV registered a tax-free cash sum of £16,961.54. In June 2013 the sum 
£3,394.01 was paid to Portal as their adviser service charge. And £47,490.63 was 
transferred and went on to be invested in the Vanguard Life Strategy 60% Equity.
Following the investment and receipt of the tax-free cash sum, Mr E continued to make
regular withdrawals from the plan in the months and years that followed. It doesnt appear
Portal received an ongoing advice fee, despite this apparently being part of the initial advice 
and arrangement.
By January 2019 Mr Es cash account had a zero balance and his underlying investment had
just under £11,000 remaining.
A complaint was made to Portal on Mr Es behalf in 2019. It said Mr E had not been properly
informed or advised. The complaint suggested Portal had provided incorrect information to
Mr E, they had failed to follow the proper procedures and had unfairly and unsuitably
influenced Mr E to cause him to transfer his valuable pension benefits out of his OPS. It was
said that no alternative options were discussed, and it was disputed that Mr E was ever an
insistent client. As a consequence, Mr E, who was vulnerable, had suffered loss.
There are letters provided in response to this complaint on paper headed from a firm called
Portafina LLP with company information that differs in relation to the FCA number and
registered address to that of Portal. However the letters make clear reference to the
documents prepared in respect of Mr E by Portal, they quote the contents directly. On behalf 
of Portal, the complaint was rejected.
Mr Es complaint was referred to this service. In summary we were told on his behalf that
Portal ought not to have facilitated the transfer of his OPS. We were told Mr E had no
recollection of receiving any advice in writing and had limited knowledge and understanding
around pensions. He had been in financial difficulty at the time and had no other financial
options. This included no cash savings or any alternative or additional pension provision.
Mr E complained the adviser from Portal failed to explore alternative options to raise capital
to meet his debts. Mr E said he hadnt been made aware hed be better of leaving his
pension benefits where they were. Mr E said hed been intending to retire at 60. This had
been close to the age he was seen by Portal. As a consequence of their failures and Mr Es
loss, its said Mr E had to amend his plans and now will retire at a later age.Mr E said hed been made aware there had been cases where Portal had been criticised in
their approach to categorising clients as being insistent. He said there were a number of
decisions made by ombudsmen at this service on similar facts to his situation against the
same firm. It was said Portal ought to have identified his lack of knowledge and ought to
have refused to facilitate the transfer despite his agreement.
Investigators view
An investigator at this service considered Mr Es complaint. She rejected the complaint. Her
view suggests she accepted Portal had advised Mr E, albeit she acknowledged Portal
mentioned multiple times that the transfer was potentially unsuitable for him in documents
provided. The investigator accepted that on the face of the information the transfer had been
unsuitable in respect of achieving the same or better benefits at retirement as Mr Es OPS.
However overall, she concluded there had been external factors that meant Mr E had
needed to complete the transfer. Hed been in desperate need of money due to serious
financial problems and no other reasonable options. She also concluded the investment had
met Mr Es attitude to risk and as such was not unsuitable.
Portal accepted the investigators view. Mr Es representatives did not. Mr Es 
representatives told us that because Mr E was particularly vulnerable at the time, Portal 
ought not to have facilitated Mr Es transfer. It was suggested the investigator wrongly
concluded the pressure being applied by loan sharks and nasty people to Mr E meant the
failures of Portal were being overlooked.
Provisional decision
On 24 February 2022 I issued a provisional decision. Although I was sympathetic to Mr Es 
position and I didnt think Portals service had been at all satisfactory, I didnt think it was 
necessarily wrong in these very particular circumstances for Mr E to have accessed funds 
from his preserved OPS benefits. 
I thought Portals approach had been pre-determined and flawed from the start. But Mr E 
had been in very serious circumstances on his own evidence, and I couldnt conclude that if 
he had been differently advised and assisted by Portal he would not have done the same 
thing; or that it could be said that it was unsuitable in the very personal circumstances of this 
case.
I indicated I intended to uphold part of Mr Es complaint in respect of the service provided, 
and to conclude Portal must repay a portion of fees paid to them by Mr E, with interest and 
an award for his distress and inconvenience. I also set out what I intended to say Portal must 
do.
Responses to provisional decision
Portal did not respond.
Mr Es representatives didnt agree with my provisional decision. They accepted my findings 
about the flaws in Portals processes and advice, and Portals flawed treatment of Mr E as 
an Insistent Client. However, Mr Es representatives continue to stress their view that had 
Portal carried out their advice differently, Mr E was very unlikely to have gone ahead with the 
transfer. In particular its said Portal ought to have specifically recommended to Mr E that he 
seek debt management / insolvency advice and they ought to have informed him this could 
offer an alternative means of dealing with his current position, without jeopardising his future 
retirement provision.In summary I was asked to consider there were a wide variety of other options open to Mr E 
to meet his financial needs and circumstances. Mr Es representatives didnt intend to 
rehearse these; albeit they referred to bankruptcy and debt management and drew my 
attention to part of the Insolvency rules and protections afforded to defined benefit pension 
schemes. 
I went on to provide parties an opportunity to respond to my thinking that interest ought to be 
paid until date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent been persuaded to depart from the thinking set out in my 
provisional decision. I am upholding part of Mr Es complaint and Portal must repay a portion 
of fees paid to them by Mr E, with interest and an award for distress and inconvenience.
The manner in which Portal dealt with Mr E, and the processes adopted were flawed,
inconsistent and unsatisfactory. I consider the service provided by Portal can be
characterised as pre-determined, advisory and directory. I dont think Portal and their
relationship with Mr E met whats expected when categorising someone as a true insistent
client.
Mr E was actively led through the process to enable benefits from his OPS to be transferred
and accessed. I dont consider Mr E here, chose a different approach to that recommended
by Portal. I dont accept Portal facilitated Mr Es wishes, against their own genuine 
recommendation. Mr E wasnt provided with sufficient understanding or accurate information;
nor did Portal meet the standards or requirements around their work and service. There are 
significant inconsistencies within Portals paperwork and that created in respect of Mr E and 
his transfer. 
The transfer from the OPS was not going to put Mr E in a better position in respect of his
pension arrangements. There was never any reasonable likelihood the critical yield required
to match or exceed the OPS benefits would be met. Portals documents on this were 
inconsistent. Its also clear Mr E had no other available assets, further pension arrangements 
or any capacity for loss.
But in the circumstances of this case I have needed to consider whether what was done
for Mr E was unsuitable, and if Portal had what they ought to have done here, what I think on
balance was likely to have happened. I think Mr E wanted and needed urgent access to 
money; and facilitating this transfer enabled this. Mr Es circumstances and needs in 2013
are at the centre of this complaint.
Mr E disclosed enough to Portal to have made them aware he was particularly vulnerable
and desperate to access any finance he could. I accept the suggestion, this ought to have
made Portal take into account his particular financial vulnerability and take additional care 
when advising and working with Mr E. I am not persuaded Portal did this; albeit there isnt 
enough for me to conclude Portal knew the extent and nature of Mr Es pressing financial 
commitments.
Given the very particular circumstances of this case I dont conclude what happened was 
unsuitable for Mr E, such as Portal ought to be required to bear the responsibility of loss in 
retirement benefits from the transfer. I am not persuaded that even if Portal had done what they ought to have done, that Mr E would not have gone on to insist, in a way that met the 
requirements, that he did want to transfer his OPS benefits and in particular access the tax-
free cash.
Mr E didnt have any reasonable alternative options when it came to finding alternative
sources of money. Mr E was in a real need, and from what he has told us, it might be
considered an urgent and desperate need. He told us that not only did he have regulated
debts (credit cards for example) to manage, he also had bailiffs and loan sharks attending
his home. He said payments had been missed which led to the interest doubling, and he had
nasty people knocking at his door. Mr E also told us hed contacted his OPS himself to see
if he could access any funds. He had been unemployed for around a year, his wife was
retired and there was no indication his position or needs were likely to change, save for
becoming more desperate.
Ive also considered, as has been suggested by Mr Es representatives, whether if Portal had
explored other options for releasing or obtaining money at the time, something different
would have happened. I dont think there were any alternative reasonable options available
to Mr E to access funds.
It was suggested Mr E could have approached family for a loan. I dont consider this to
have been something Portal ought reasonably to have explored. Here Mr E was 
experiencing constant worry around his debts and people contacting him around 
repayments; this had already led him to contact his OPS directly, so I tend to conclude this 
would have been an avenue he was likely to have explored himself if it were an option.
Ive seen whats said on Mr Es behalf in respect of debt support agencies and other options. 
I continue to have real sympathy with Mr Es position, but I dont think a number of the 
options proposed might not have either been considered by Mr E, (given he had been 
looking for a solution) or brought to his attention by some of his more regulated debts (credit 
cards). 
In any event, the options proposed, or any others that might have reasonably been 
considered, would not have addressed all of Mr Es needs; and not the most pressing and 
urgent. Here Mr E referred to having nasty people attending his home in relation to debts, 
this makes his needs at the time particularly desperate. I accept this made him vulnerable to 
the flawed advice approach adopted by Portal, but that doesnt mean I can conclude on 
balance, this made it unsuitable for Mr E to access his funds to address his pressing 
problems. It does mean I think Mr E was likely on balance, to have pursued access to these 
funds, even if Portal had now failed in the ways I have identified. Ive seen Mr E continued to 
draw on his funds in the time that followed, but theres no suggestion he received ongoing 
advice.
On balance I think it is reasonable, if more unusual, to conclude Mr E had good reason to 
give up future benefits, for an immediate relief from very desperate, and no doubt worrying 
and frightening circumstances. He didnt have capacity to lose his only future pension 
provision, but he had good reason to give it up here.
So the transfer, although on the face of it flawed and unsuitable, was in these very particular 
circumstances, not unsuitable; I tend to think on balance that if Portal had done what they 
ought to have done, then in any event, Mr E was more likely than not, to have gone on to 
insist, in a way that would have met the requirements, that he wished to proceed.
Ive seen whats said about other decisions made by this service upholding complaints made
against this firm in similar circumstances. However, each case turns on its own facts. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr Es situation, I have carefully balanced the facts here. I accept Mr E was vulnerable, he had no capacity for loss, and he would clearly lose future benefits 
for retirement here.
Mr Es representatives suggest Portal, in the circumstances, ought to have refused to
facilitate the transfer. I dont accept this was something they were required to do. I accept 
and agree Portal ought to have done better when it came to meaningfully communicating to 
Mr E that leaving his benefits in his OPS would enable him to have more valuable benefits in 
the future and that a transfer (particularly given his age) would not, (putting aside his 
desperate financial need), be in his longer term or retirement interests. This doesnt mean I 
think Mr E would have chosen to do something else.
Investment
For completeness Portal advised on the investment; there is no basis on which to suggest 
Mr E made or was in any position to make his own investment choice with the residue of his 
fund once the tax-free cash had been accessed. I dont accept, based on what Ive seen the 
investment as set up, was suitable for Mr E. This is simply in respect of one matter, that the 
investment had a life-styling strategy. Portals explanation of what a lifestyle strategy 
involves was accurate enough in their report; albeit I dont conclude Mr E would have 
reasonably understood this.
Given Mr Es age, and how close he was to his intended retirement, I dont conclude such a 
strategy could be considered prudent. However Mr E continued to withdraw funds regularly 
from the sum invested over the following months and years, and as such this point is moot.
Theres no suggestion Portal considered, or were asked to consider ongoing withdrawals 
and their impact, or that Mr E sought further advice on his pension; as such, as I previously 
indicated, I havent considered failures around the investment advice separately from overall 
failures in Portals service.
For completeness I dont accept any suggestion Portal accurately recorded that Mr E
understood stock market volatility. Where Portal recorded he had no investment preference
and he was happy to consider their recommendations, I think it could be more accurately
described that Mr E followed Portals directions.
Putting things right
What Portal must do
Portals service and advice was inconsistent, inadequate, and unsatisfactory. The only thing
they did which I accept was not unsuitable, (and which I think Mr E would have insisted
upon, had he been properly advised), was the transfer from the OPS, thus enabling access
to the tax-free funds and seeking to ensure the remainder was invested. Here in such a way
that was intended to meet a balanced attitude to risk.
Mr E is entitled to a repayment of a portion of the fees received by Portal, including interest 
to represent the loss at our usual rate. Portal also need to make a payment to Mr E to 
represent the distress and inconvenience he has been occasioned. I have reduced this to 
acknowledge Mr E has been represented and due to the circumstances of this case.
Portal need to make a payment to Mr E to represent the loss he has inevitably suffered in his 
retirement options and benefits as a consequence of the transfer. His short terms needs took 
priority in 2013, and in such a way the transfer overall cant be considered unsuitable, or on 
balance, likely to have been contrary to his choice, had he been properly informed and 
advised.Based on what Ive seen, Portal received £3,394.01 in June 2013 as payment for their work
and service. Portal must pay Mr E the sum of £1,500 to represent the cost of work Mr E 
reasonably expected Portal to have adequately provided, which they failed to do. In reaching 
this sum, Ive balanced it against a reasonable sum for the work Portal did to ensure Mr Es 
OPS benefits were transferred and invested, and the tax-free cash made available; despite 
the pre-determined and flawed process. 
Interest is to be paid on this sum to be paid at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
Portal to the date of settlement.
Portal must also pay Mr E the sum of £250 to represent his distress and inconvenience here.
I previously indicated that it doesnt appear Portal provided any ongoing advice; nor were 
they paid any ongoing fee, even thought this was said to be part of the original agreement. I 
invited further information and representations if this was wrong. I havent seen anything on 
this point. For completeness I indicated in my provisional decision that if Portal were 
provided with any ongoing fees and did not provide any ongoing service, I would intend to 
also refund such fees or charges with the approach to interest following the approach set out 
above. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I uphold Mr Es complaint against Portal Financial Services LLP in 
part. Portal need to complete the redress exercise as set out above. In summary:
To pay Mr E the sum of £1,500, representing a refund of part of the fee he paid for 
inadequate and flawed service and advice.
Interest on this sum to be paid at 8% simple a year from the date of payment of the 
overall fee to Portal in June 2013 to the date of settlement.
To pay Mr E the sum of £250 to represent his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman