DRN-4204836
The complaint
Miss S complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G)s handling of a claim on 
an insurance policy for a kitchen appliance.
What happened
Miss S bought a D&G insurance policy on 30 December 2022 to cover a small kitchen 
appliance. The policy was a flexible monthly plan to cover breakdown, labour costs, and 
accidental damage. It was due to start on 29 January 2023. 
Miss S first reported a fault with the appliance in early January 2023, however D&G told Miss 
S shed have to wait to make her claim because the policy wasnt yet in force. It later 
arranged for the appliance to be collected and repaired. D&Gs repairer missed one 
appointment to collect the appliance in early February 2023, then collected it a week later.
D&Gs repairer found that the appliance couldnt be fixed so D&G offered Miss S a cash 
settlement of just under £450. It also offered her £100 to apologise for the delay collecting 
the appliance.
Miss S didnt accept this and brought her complaint to this service. She says D&Gs 
customer service was very poor. She says appointments were missed and phone calls 
werent returned as promised. Shes also unhappy D&G didnt return the appliance to her.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Miss Ss complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied that D&G had settled the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. He also 
thought its £100 offer to apologise for the delay collecting the appliance was fair.
Miss S disagreed with our investigator, so the case was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ss policy covers her for mechanical or electrical breakdown (after the manufacturers 
guarantee) and accidental damage (during and after the manufacturers guarantee).
Miss S told D&G her appliance was broken. D&Gs expert examined it and decided it 
couldnt be fixed. Under the policy terms, D&G is obliged to repair or replace the appliance 
or offer the policyholder vouchers or the cash equivalent for the full retail price of a 
replacement. D&G made a cash transfer to Miss S, based on the value of a similar make 
and specification as her appliance. Ive not seen any evidence that this valuation was unfair, 
and Miss S hasnt challenged this.
Under the policy terms, once the appliance was considered beyond repair it became D&Gs 
property (If the product is taken or sent away from your home for repair but is then replaced, 
the original product will become our property and we will dispose of it.). This is relatively 
common in insurance policies, and I dont think its unreasonable. I see no reason why D&G 
should have returned the broken appliance to Miss S.
So Im satisfied that D&G fulfilled its obligations under the policy when Miss Ss appliance 
couldnt be fixed.
That leaves the matter of D&Gs customer service. The evidence the parties have submitted 
shows the timeline was as follows:
9 January: Miss S called D&G and reported the fault with her kitchen appliance.
3 February. D&G arranged for its repairer to collect the appliance on 7 February.
7 February. D&Gs repairer failed to attend the appointment to collect the appliance.
10 February. Miss S complained to D&G.
13 February. D&Gs repairer collected the appliance.
17 February. D&G apologised and offered Miss S £100 for the missed appointment.
22 February. D&G told Miss S the appliance couldnt be fixed. It offered a cash 
settlement which would be in her account within 3-5 working days.
So there were 10 days from when D&G first arranged collection and the appliance being 
collected, and a further 12 days before Miss S was told it wasnt repairable. I dont think 
thats an unreasonable length of time, particularly for an item most people might consider 
non-essential. 
D&G explained that there was some confusion about Miss Ss address. Thats evident from 
the phone calls Ive listened to, for example on 3 February 2023 when D&Gs agent couldnt 
trace Miss Ss policy under her home address.
I see that there are two addresses on the policy documents  her home address and a rental 
property. It appears from D&Gs internal notes that its repairer visited the rental property to 
collect the appliance rather than Miss Ss home address. D&G offered Miss S £100 to 
apologise for this. In the circumstances, I think thats fair. 
I know Miss S says she had a lot of problems trying to communicate with D&Gs repairers 
and I understand she would have been frustrated by this. However, overall I think D&G has 
acted reasonably. It collected and assessed the appliance in a timely manner. Its settlement 
was fair, and I think its £100 offer to apologise for the missed collection was also fair. Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint because I think D&Gs offer is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman