DRN-3124158
The complaint
Mr K complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) avoided his car 
insurance policy (treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
Mr K is being represented by a relative, Mr G in his complaint. 
What happened
Mr K took out a car insurance policy with LV online. He accidentally drove into a bollard and 
made a claim to LV. 
LV said Mr K had answered the question it asked about modifications incorrectly when he 
applied for the policy. LV avoided Mr Ks policy. 
LV later confirmed this wasnt the reason why it avoided his policy. It said Mr K hadnt 
answered the question about the make and model of the car correctly. And he wasnt the 
registered owner and keeper. LV considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy. LV said it wouldnt have provided 
cover for Mr K if it had known the correct details of the car.
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought Mr K had failed to take reasonable care when providing details of the car. And that 
LV had shown it wouldnt have offered Mr K a policy if hed provided the correct car details. 
Mr K doesnt agree. He says he wants LV to show it properly followed the process in line 
with the relevant law when it avoided the policy for misrepresentation. He says LV hasnt 
provided this, so he has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
provided details of the car. The website Mr K used pre-populated the make and model of the 
car based on the registration details provided. These details didnt match the actual model of 
Mr Ks car. Additional help for this question on the website read:
Not the right vehicle? Update the registration number, manually enter the vehicle 
details. Please check the details are correct and make any required changes. 
So I think Mr K was given the option to manually correct the information about the model of 
the car when he applied for the policy.
Mr K says he understood the details provided were as per the V5 registration document. LV 
said its possible that when the registration details were changed in 2014, details werent 
updated completely with - or by the DVLA. This isnt something LV is responsible for  as the 
onus is on the customer to provide correct details of the car when applying for the policy. 
I understand Mr K says a representative completed the application for him  but it is the 
customer who forms the contract with LV  and so it was Mr Ks responsibility to ensure the 
information provided was correct. So I think Mr K failed to take reasonable care when 
submitting details about the car. 
LV says if it had known the correct information about the model specification of the car, it 
wouldnt have offered Mr K a policy. LV has provided evidence that its underwriting criteria 
excluded cover for this type of vehicle. I understand Mr K is unhappy that he hasnt been 
provided with evidence LV correctly followed the law when avoiding his policy. But an 
insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so cant be shared with 
customers. We can however ask an insurer to share it with us - to check its treated a 
customer fairly. Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied LV wouldnt have offered Mr K 
 or any other customer in the same position  a policy. 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
LV has said Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless because he didnt take reasonable care 
to check the details matched the make and model of his car when he answered the question 
about the registration details. 
I agree that Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless, because while the correct registration 
plate details were entered, I dont think reasonable care was taken to check if the pre 
populated information matched the car. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions LV can take in accordance with CIDRA.
LV avoided Mr Ks policy  cancelled it as if it didnt exist  and it refunded the premium Mr K 
paid for the policy. I think this was fair and in line with CIDRA. As the policy effectively didnt 
exist, this means there is no cover for Mr Ks claim.
I agree that the original reason for LV avoiding the policy was incorrect  which is what LV 
has confirmed in its letter to Mr K dated 31 March 2021. I think that LV has acknowledged its 
original error  but this doesnt change the outcome. The avoidance still stands and the 
refund of premium was correct for the revised reasons given. I understand Mr K is very disappointed. But in light of what Ive seen, I think LVs decision to 
avoid the policy for careless misrepresentation was reached reasonably and in line with 
CIDRA. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman