DRN-3624551
The complaint
Mr T has complained about a secured loan he held with Elderbridge Limited. He says that he 
wasnt told that interest was being supressed and was being held in a separate sub-account, 
which meant there was still a large sum outstanding when he thought the loan should be 
repaid.
What happened
In September 2007 Mr T took out this secured loan with a lender Ill call F. He borrowed 
£40,000 (plus a £2,000 broker fee) over a 15-year term with a variable interest rate. This 
loan was unregulated  that is, it wasnt regulated under the Consumer Credit Act or subject 
to the Mortgages and Home Finance Conduct of Business Sourcebook rules.
Mr T missed some payments over the years, with the arrears building. 
In early 2014 Mr T entered into a payment arrangement with F, which was for him to make 
his contractual monthly payment plus around £150 a month for two years. F suppressed the 
interest on the account. For ease, Ill use an explanation provided by Elderbridge of what 
that means:
By Suspending and Accruing the interest, this means that it is not applied to the main 
balance however the loan is still interest bearing. The interest accrues separately as 
simple interest rather than compound and is only repaid once the total capital has been 
repaid or on early settlement of the loan (included in the settlement).
This is advantageous to the borrowers as their contractual payment reduces the capital 
balance of the loan and therefore will reduce the amount of interest which is charged 
monthly. If the interest were to be applied to the main capital amount, it too would be 
interest bearing. The effect, therefore, is that rather than applying compound interest, the 
business applies simple interest which will allow the borrowers to clear their liability 
quicker.
In January 2016 the account was transferred from F to Elderbridge, and the arrears sum was 
cleared. From April 2016 Mr T reverted to paying just his contractual monthly payment.
In March 2020 Mr T contacted Elderbridge as he wanted to know how much he still owed, 
and how long remained on the term. Mr T was told about the suppressed interest of around 
£9,100.
A few weeks later Elderbridge wrote to Mr T. It explained what it meant by suppressed 
interest and said no further interest would be charged on the sum. It said, based on his 
current payments, the loan would be repaid 11 months sooner than originally scheduled.
In April 2020 Mr T was told the loan was due to end in February 2021, but then in January 
2021 he was told there was still over £4,000 outstanding and it would run until November 
2021.
Unhappy with what had happened, Mr T raised a complaint. Elderbridge said the interest 
had been suppressed to assist Mr T, and there was no regulatory requirement to tell him 
about it.
Our investigator considered the complaint and issued his assessment of it on 5 May 2022. 
He said we couldnt consider the actions of F in this complaint about Elderbridge, so wed 
only be able to look at what had happened since January 2016. For the period we can look 
at, he said we needed to consider if Elderbridge had treated Mr T fairly  that is, did it take 
reasonable steps to make Mr T aware of the suppressed interest balance  and, if it didnt, 
whether we thought Mr T would have done anything differently. He said he didnt think 
Elderbridge had done enough to make Mr T aware, but he didnt think Mr T would have done 
anything differently. However, he did think Elderbridge should pay £200 compensation to 
Mr T for the disappointment caused to him by finding out so late about the suppressed 
interest, and then the misinformation about when the loan would end.
Elderbridge indicated that it didnt agree with the assessment and asked for more time to 
respond. Despite various extensions being granted, and a final deadline being given of 
29 July, Elderbridge still hasnt responded. As we cant keep complaints in abeyance 
indefinitely the case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Mr T had been struggling to pay his loan. One particular thing that was done to help him was 
to stop adding interest onto the loan account as otherwise hed be paying interest on interest 
- known as compound interest - if he didnt keep up his payments. Instead F carried on 
calculating the interest in the background, as it was still due, but as it wasnt applied to the 
account it didnt attract interest itself. This is known as simple interest. 
In effect, in order to prevent interest accruing on unpaid interest, F ring-fenced the interest 
in a separate account, so that it didnt attract further compound interest. This also meant any 
payments Mr T made after that point went towards reducing his arrears, and then repaying 
the capital. Ultimately, it meant Mr T was charged less interest than he would have been 
otherwise.
The contract Mr T entered into required each contractual monthly payment to be made in full 
and on time in the month it was due. As interest is constantly being charged this means its 
not as simple as making up a missed payment, theres also the extra interest incurred for 
every day that payment is overdue. This interest can add up significantly as for each delayed 
payment extra interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. 
Im not making any findings here about the decision by F to suppress interest on the 
account, merely explaining how it worked. As our investigator explained, I can only consider 
the complaint against Elderbridge in relation to what happened after it took over the loan in 
January 2016. 
We dont provide an auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or 
incorrect since Elderbridge took over the loan (which, as I said above, is all Im considering here). Of course, its open to Mr T to instruct an independent and suitably-qualified 
professional to audit his account. But that would have to be at his expense - though if errors 
were found to his financial detriment, he could complain about them and his costs in 
discovering them could be taken into account in putting matters right.
It isnt in dispute that Elderbridge didnt mention the supressed interest to Mr T before he 
made contact in March 2020. Mr Ts loan is unregulated, but Elderbridge is regulated. So its 
subject to the regulators high-level principles on how to treat consumers. Two of those 
principles are relevant here:
principle six, which requires Elderbridge to pay due regard to Mr Ts interests and 
treat him fairly; and
principle seven, which requires Elderbridge to pay regard to Mr Ts information needs 
and communicate in a way thats clear, fair and not mis-leading.
For the reasons Ive already explained, I think the suppression of the interest meant Mr T 
was treated fairly, as it meant he was charged less interest than he would otherwise have 
been. Having reviewed the transaction history and the contact notes, I dont think Mr T would 
have been able to pay more than he was already paying towards his loan, so Im not 
persuaded that he has been financially disadvantaged by being unaware of the suppressed 
interest.
But I agree with our investigator that it would have been a shock to Mr T to find out so late 
on that he owed much more than he was expecting, and then that was compounded by the 
misinformation he was given in April 2020 (as recorded in the contact notes) about when his 
loan would be repaid. Our investigator has recommended that Elderbridge should pay Mr T 
£200 compensation in recognition of this upset. Having considered everything very carefully, 
I find that sum to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and order Elderbridge Limited to pay £200 compensation to 
Mr T. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman