DRN-1884782
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr M was more than eight years old, had been driven for 
57,451 miles and had a price of £10,538;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
there have clearly been a number of issues with the car, many to do with oil 
pressure, and the car has been repaired under warranty and Mr M has also paid for 
repairs;
the first repair was in February 2018, less than a month after the car was supplied to 
Mr M, and included replacement of the oil pressure sensor under warranty  the cars 
mileage was recorded as 60,517 at that time; 
further repairs took place in May, June and July 2018 and at the time of the repair in 
July 2018 the cars mileage was recorded as 67,993;
there were further issues with the car in August 2019 and Mr M complained to 
MotoNovo Finance  he also arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in November 2019  MotoNovo Finance reimbursed him for the cost of the 
inspection;
the inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 68,632 and concluded:
In my opinion being based on evidence written, reported and observed at the 
time of this inspection the vehicle was clearly not fit for purpose at the point of 
sale due to low engine oil pressure and a developing fault within the 
automatic transmission. The dealer failed to rectify the oil pressure issues 
when the vehicle was returned for further investigation. The vehicle will 
require further investigation to rectify the low engine oil pressure and the 
abnormal top end engine noise. The faulty automatic transmission will also 
require further investigation;
MotoNovo Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by a second independent 
expert in December 2019 and the inspection report concluded that there were rattling 
noises coming from the engine and the oil pressure warning light was staying on  
but it said: 
 if the vehicle had an oil pump failure issue at the point of purchase the 
vehicle could not have driven hundred miles let alone a few thousand miles  
we believe that the current issue has developed after the point of purchase;
our investigator was satisfied that there were inherent issues with the car at the point 
of sale which meant it wasnt of satisfactory quality and he recommended that 
MotoNovo Finance should: collect the car and cancel the agreement; reimburse Mr M 
for the repair costs that hed paid (with interest); refund his deposit (with interest) and 
remove any information recorded with credit reference agencies about the 
agreement;
MotoNovo Finance has responded to those recommendations in details and says 
that the car has passed two MOT test since it was supplied to Mr M and the second 
independent experts report and the mileage covered by Mr M in a short period are 
contributing factors for it refute this complaint  and it says that its seen no concrete 
evidence to detail otherwise;
I consider that the evidence shows that there were issues with the cars oil pressure 
within a month of it being supplied to Mr M, repairs have been made but the issues 
have continued and both independent reports confirm that there are still issues with 
the cars oil pressure;
the first report says that the car wasnt fit for purpose when it was supplied to Mr M 
and the second report says that the issue has developed after that time  but Mr M 
reported issues with the cars oil pressure only a few weeks after the car had been 
supplied to him; and
I find that its more likely than not that there were issues with the cars oil pressure 
when the car was supplied to Mr M and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
that time because of those issues  those issues have continued despite the repairs 
that have been attempted and I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these circumstances for Mr M to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to end the hire purchase 
agreement and to arrange for the car to be collected from Mr M  both at no cost to him. The 
invoice and the agreement show that Mr M paid a cash deposit of £538 for the car and I find 
that it should also refund to him any deposit that he paid for the car, with interest. 
Although some of the repairs to the car were covered by the warranty, Mr M has also paid 
for some of the repairs. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to 
reimburse him for the repair costs that hes paid, with interest.
Mr M was able to use the car to drive more than 11,000 miles and hes stopped making the 
monthly payments that were due to MotoNovo Finance. Im not persuaded that it would be 
fair or reasonable for me to require MotoNovo Finance to refund to Mr M any of the monthly 
payments that hes made for the car. I consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep those payments as payment for the use that hes had from the car. But I consider that it 
should remove all information about the agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr s complaint and I order FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as 
MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr M any deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Reimburse Mr M for the repair costs that hes incurred;
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove all information about the hire purchase agreement from Mr Ms credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 4 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr M a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman