DRN-4394118
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund money he lost to an investment scam.
What happened
Mr P fell victim to an investment scam after responding to an advert he found online. After 
making a small initial deposit from an account at another financial business, he was given 
access to a trading platform where he could see the value of his investment increase. When 
he tried to withdraw his money he was told hed need to pay fees to release it. He took out a 
loan with a third-party business and made three payments, over two days, totalling £7,500, 
from his new Revolut account to a cryptocurrency platform. From there, I understand, he 
purchased cryptocurrency and sent it to the fraudster. After making these payments, the 
fraudsters demanded more money  this time for tax. At this point, Mr P realised hed been 
the victim of a scam and reported the matter to Revolut.
It said that it wasnt responsible for his loss as it had both provided warnings in relation to the 
transfers and couldnt recover the card payment through the chargeback scheme.
Mr P, through a representative, referred the matter to our service. He argued that Revolut 
ought to have found the activity which took place to be suspicious and should have spoken 
to him before allowing it to proceed. Had it done so, he argued, the scam would have come 
to light and the loss would have been prevented.
One of our Investigators didnt uphold his complaint. They thought that the warnings 
displayed by Revolut were proportionate to the risk presented. They also noted that Mr P 
may not have seen the warning if, as claimed, the fraudsters had control of his computer and 
were instructing the payments. So even a better warning might not have prevented the 
scam.
Mr P didnt agree. He argued that Revolut ought to have found the third and final payment 
suspicious and should have asked him specific questions about it, which would have 
uncovered the scam and prevented further loss.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that Mr P is responsible for payments hes authorised himself. 
Although Mr P has said that some of the payments were carried out while the fraudsters had 
control of his computer, he doesnt dispute consenting to them, so Im satisfied they were 
authorised. But taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Revolut ought, 
fairly and reasonably, to have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual 
transactions or other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from 
fraud.
Im sorry that Mr P has been the victim of such a cruel scam. But, having considered this 
matter carefully, I dont think Revolut made a mistake when it allowed the payments in 
dispute to debit his account without further intervention.
In making this decision, Ive thought carefully about how the transactions would have 
appeared to Revolut, taking into account that it knew little about Mr P, his circumstances or 
the way that he usually managed his finances. 
Mr P appears to have given a number of different reasons for opening his account (its 
possible to choose more than one) including buying cryptocurrency. So the activity which 
took place that was identifiably going to a cryptocurrency provider would not have appeared 
inconsistent with that. 
Revolut did provide several warnings throughout the payment journey. A couple of those 
were quite general in nature, but nevertheless highlighted the broad risk of scams. Revolut 
says that Mr P would have seen a more specific warning while attempting the transfers, but it 
is unable to demonstrate which payment reason was selected due to a system error. I 
understand Mr P cannot recall which warning he might have seen. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, its likely that Mr P had to select a payment reason and its 
reasonable to think that, of the available options, investment was the most relevant to his 
circumstances. Had Mr P chosen this option he would have seen some fairly relevant 
information about investment scams. So, when deciding whether Revolut did enough here, 
Ive taken into account that Mr P could have seen a warning that was fairly relevant to his 
circumstances. 
Mr P says that all three payments actually went to the same cryptocurrency provider (that Ill 
call B), but it doesnt appear that way on his statement and Revolut say they were not aware 
that anything but the card payment was going to B. Had Revolut been able to identify that all 
three payments had the same destination and that destination was related to cryptocurrency, 
then I might have expected it to provide a warning specifically about the risks of 
cryptocurrency and cryptocurrency investment scams when Mr P made the third payment. 
But without that knowledge, I dont think that it needed to give that kind of specific warning. 
Im also conscious that, given what Mr P has said about the fraudsters having control of his 
computer, its not clear whether he saw any of the warnings and, therefore, he would not 
have seen a more specific warning had it been provided. 
Im also not persuaded that the pattern of transactions by the third payment, taking into 
account the values of those payments and what Revolut knew about Mr P, looked suspicious 
enough to warrant a human intervention. I do acknowledge that the third payment was the 
second payment that Mr P was making in under an hour and a concerning pattern was 
beginning to develop. But, that payment did not, in my view, represent such a heightened 
risk that a human intervention was proportionate. 
Overall, I think that the steps that Revolut did take to warn Mr P were sufficient here and I 
dont find that, fairly and reasonably, it ought to have done more.
Finally Ive considered Revoluts attempts to recover Mr Ps money. There appears to have 
been a delay before it contacted the firm which received the transfers. However, the 
receiving firm confirmed that all of Mr Ps money was removed from that account before he 
contacted Revolut to report the scam. Im also satisfied that a chargeback in relation to the card payment would have no prospect of success as B had provided services to Mr P  
namely the transfer of funds and/or provision of cryptocurrency.
I know this will be extremely disappointing for Mr P, but I dont find that Revolut have made a 
mistake, so I wont be asking it to refund his losses or pay any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman