DRN-3649210
The complaint
Ms F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has treated her unfairly in relation to voice recording
for identification purposes and giving her access to her account.
What happened
I considered this complaint and issued my provisional decision on 27 July 2022. Heres a 
copy of what I said  see below. 
What happened
Ms F opened an account with Monzo in April 2019. Around January 2021, she got locked out
of her account when logging on from a different device. Monzo told Ms F that as a security
measure she needed to verify herself using voice recognition to get access to her account.
Ms F objected. She said she hadnt provided a voice recording or given permission for
Monzo to take one and use it for this purpose. She said this was a violation of her privacy
and that she needed access to her account.
Monzo said its process was to take a voice recording when a customer opened an account
alongside taking a selfie video. And that this was in line with information it shares with its
customers. However, in Ms Fs case it could see that no audio had been taken, only a
video. So, it offered £30 compensation as a gesture of goodwill. Ms F didnt accept this.
Ms F said she wanted to withdraw her money and close her account but Monzo said it still
needed a voice recording from her to do this, as it would still need to carry out a verification
check in line with its security measures. Ms F also discussed the issue over Monzos chat
function. Monzo told Ms F that her voice would be verified against calls shed had with its
support areas about this matter, as those had been recorded. And it would still need her to
complete the initial part of the audio process.
Ms F was alarmed Monzo had recorded her voice and would use this for voice recognition.
Monzo said it had notified her at the beginning of the call that it records these for training and
monitoring purposes. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong. It went onto explain it
couldnt delete information from its database as it was required to keep records for six years
to meet regulatory requirements in relation to know your customer (KYC).
Ms F referred her complaint to our service. In doing so she reiterated her concerns about
Monzo using her voice recording for identification purposes. But she also felt Monzo had
gone against her wishes in taking a recording of her after shed explicitly made her concerns
about holding and using her voice for identification purposes clear. She didnt think Monzo
had been transparent and believed it had treated her unfairly.
During our investigation Monzo told us that it offered to accept a video without audio to allow
Ms F to regain access and close her account. And that it wished to increase its original offer
of compensation to £130, because it acknowledged it could have done more to assist Ms F
with this early on.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought Monzos offer of
compensation was fair considering what had happened.
Ms F accepted that Monzo had offered a solution to get her access to her account and
agreed that the compensation was fair but she didnt accept that Monzo had the right to
record her voice in the circumstances it had and use it to identify her. She asked this to be
addressed. The investigator asked Monzo if it would delete the recording but it said no. So,
the case was put forward for a decision.
Before this decision, I approached Monzo. I asked it to look at whether the recording it had
taken from Ms F constituted special category data (known as biometric data) and if so
whether this required Ms Fs explicit consent before it could obtain or use it. Monzo, didnt
agree it held or used voice recordings as biometric data. Though to resolve the complaint it
said it would like to increase its offer of compensation to £150 as it could see how some
confusion had resulted around the use of recordings from a call with its support teams.
I put the offer to Ms F as Im required to disclose all offers. While Ms F noted the offer, she
maintained the issue of how her voice recording was obtained was still a concern for her
and she wanted that information to be deleted. She said shed told Monzo all along that
shed be willing to close her account and she still hadnt been able to access her funds
because of the ongoing dispute. I requested further clarification from Monzo about these
matters and it told me that it wouldnt seek use the recording for voice identification purposes
but would prefer to keep it as it was evidence of Ms Fs request to withdraw her funds and
close the account.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are fundamentally two issues at the heart of Ms Fs complaint. One relates to voice
recording for identification purposes and the other is access to her account.
Voice recording
Monzo has provided information to show that it requires a video selfie alongside a voice
recording of the customer saying their name and that they are a Monzo customer as part of
their account opening process. It says it uses voice recognition to identify customers. Ms F
completed the video part, but she didnt say anything during the video. I think its a relevant
consideration to think about what would have happened had Monzo flagged at account
opening that it didnt have any audio. So, Ive thought about this.
Given the audio is part of the account opening process and given its what gave rise to the
complaint, I think I can reasonably infer Monzo wouldnt have opened the account if it had
realised there wasnt an audio. Because I dont think Ms F would have provided the
information Monzo says it usually needs. However, Monzo didnt spot this and the account
was opened with Ms F using it for some time, until the requirements later came to light.
As soon as this happened, Ms F told Monzo she didnt want it to her have a voice recording
for identification purposes  indeed she escalated the issue. So, I can understand why M F
was unhappy when Monzo told her that her voice would be verified against the calls shed
made to its support teams. While I dont think Monzo did anything wrong in recording the call
itself as it notifies customers that calls are recorded for training and monitoring purposes, I
can see why referencing its use for voice recognition in Ms Fs case left her feeling upset
and frustrated.Its not for me to interfere with Monzos processes in taking and using voice recognition data
when it opens accounts. Thats a decision it takes as a business with reference to any
regulatory obligations it has. But I do think that in the very specific circumstances of this case
there were shortcomings in the customer service on Monzos part. It told Ms F that it was
able to use a call recording it had taken knowing Ms F didnt want that and she was already
upset about the overall situation. In my view, a more reasonable response would have been
to do what it should have done initially during the account opening process, which was to
say, in which case it wouldnt be able to offer her account facilities and it would need to give
her the appropriate notice to close it. And try to find a different solution.
Monzo told Ms F that it still needed a voice recording to close the account, which in my view
compounded Ms Fs frustration given what had prompted her concerns. While I understand
Monzos reasons were connected to its security measures, I think there was an alternative
open to it. Monzo continued to deal with Ms F in accepting and discussing her complaint,
after carrying out some other identification checks over the phone (Ive listened to the call)
so I think it accepted it was dealing with its genuine customer.
Monzo subsequently offered an alternative  it said it could accept a video without audio to
allow Ms F to get access and close her account. If this could be done now, theres no reason
why it couldnt have been done earlier. And to be fair Monzo has acknowledged this point
and revised its compensation.
In an updated response from Monzo it said that it wont be using the recording for voice
recognition purposes. I appreciate the progress thats been made in relation to this and I
have shared this with Ms F. But its still the case that the situation had already led to Ms F
experiencing a degree of upset. And Ms F is adamant she wouldnt have opened the
account if Monzo had told her that it could only continue to offer her an account if she agreed
to provide the audio. So, considering the recording now, and what would fairly resolve this
complaint, I think instead of keeping it Monzo should delete it and make a note on the
account of Ms Fs intention to withdraw her money and close the account. The note will still
constitute a record but in a different format. And the call has no relevance to KYC. I think
given all the circumstances this would be a reasonable way to resolve things.
Access to the account
Turning to Ms F access to her account. As I have already noted above, Monzo later offered
to accept the video recording to allow Ms F access to her account. I think this was
reasonable and I can see that the investigator put this to her. Ms F acknowledged this
resolved this issue. So, Ms F was able to avail herself of this solution and can still do so.
Turning to what I think Monzo needs to do to put things right. Ive already said why I think
Monzo should delete the recording. But I think its offer to pay £150 is fair and reasonable in
all the circumstances. It recognises the upset and frustration caused in how it handled Ms
Fs concerns and that it could have been more helpful early on. Ms F has another bank
account so, I think the impact of the inconvenience side of things was fortunately limited.
Also, Ms F was eventually offered a solution to give her access. So, overall, Im satisfied the
amount of compensation considering these factors to be fair.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd
to pay Ms F £150 and delete the voice recording it took. I think this would be a fair and
reasonable way to resolve this complaint.I invited both parties to send me their submissions in response to my provisional decision. 
Monzo accepted the provisional decision.  Ms F said she didnt receive it. So, our 
investigator re-sent it. 
Ms F responded to say she agreed with the decision but queried if Monzo had said anything 
about how she could transfer her money and close the account. She asked if there was a 
point of contact she have for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied Monzos customer service fell short and this led to Ms F experiencing distress 
and inconvenience. Ive said what Monzo needs to do to resolve this complaint and neither 
party has disagreed. 
As referenced in my provisional decision, Monzo said Ms F could access her account using 
a video but without audio. I understand Ms Fs question about how shell go about doing this 
and why a point of contact would be useful. Indeed, I think it would be prudent if this could 
be resolved smoothly and without delay. So, I think when carrying out the redress below, 
someone from Monzo should also arrange to contact Ms F, specifically to talk her through 
what steps shell need to complete to access her account and close it. This would be with 
the video but without audio as previously put forward by Monzo. Im satisfied this deals with 
Ms Fs outstanding concern and brings to an end my review of her complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Monzo Bank Ltd to do the 
following:
-  Pay Ms F £150 compensation;
-  Delete the voice recording it took; and 
-  Provide Ms F with a point of contact to assist her, as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman