DRN-1938000
 
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that a valuer appointed by National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat West) 
undervalued a property he intended to buy, after Mr P had paid for and provided a Structural 
Engineers Report. 
What happened
Mr P applied for a mortgage with Nat West, through an intermediary. The application 
included a no cost standard valuation on the property he intended to purchase.
Nat West instructed an independent Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) valuer 
to provide a valuation on the property. The valuer recommended a Structural Engineers 
Report because the property was not a standard construction, and there were some exterior 
cracks visible. The valuer reported that a valuation figure couldnt be provided until the 
Structural Engineers Report had been provided.
Mr P paid for the Structural Engineers Report, and this was completed on 16 November 
2019. After it had been passed to the valuer, the valuer provided a valuation of £255,000. 
This was significantly below the purchase price of the property. The valuer said on the 
valuation form submitted to Nat West, Based on relevant comparable evidence we are 
unable to justify a figure in excess of our valuation. 
Mr P complained to Nat West and said he wouldnt have proceeded with the Structural 
Engineers Report if Nat West had told him the value was likely to be significantly lower than 
the purchase price.
Nat West provided a final response to Mr Ps complaint on 10 December 2019. Nat West 
didnt uphold the complaint and said it was guided by the professional opinion of the valuer. 
Nat West said the valuer needed to be satisfied the property was suitable security for a 
mortgage with no structural issues.  When the Structural Engineers Report confirmed it was, 
Nat West said the valuer then carried out comparisons of the prices in that area.
Our investigator has reviewed the evidence and thinks that Nat West did nothing wrong as it 
needs to rely on the professional opinions of independent valuers and surveyors when 
assessing the value of a property.
Mr P doesnt agree with our investigator and has requested an ombudsman make a final 
decision about his complaint. Mr P says that he paid for the Structural Engineers Report, 
and this was a waste of time and money if the valuer intended to value the property below 
the purchase price anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it would be useful for me to explain that Nat West didnt value the property, but it did 
instruct an independent valuation of the property for mortgage purposes. Although Nat West 
instructed a valuer on its panel of valuers, the valuer was independent of Nat West and not 
employed by them. This is common practice within the industry and is in line with the 
valuation process Nat West uses.
When the valuer inspected the property, a nil value was provided as the valuer considered 
the property may fall outside Nat Wests lending policy. The valuer thought it may be of a 
non-standard construction, but wanted a structural engineer to provide a report, or opinion. 
This is in line with Nat Wests valuation process.
Nat West told Mr P a Structural Engineers Report was required and Mr P paid for this report. 
The Structural Engineers Report confirmed the property was partly constructed of concrete 
blocks. It concluded that any cracks had been caused by movement when a rear extension 
had been built and did not appear to be progressive.  Nat West then sent the Structural 
Engineers Report to the valuer so that a valuation could be provided. 
The Valuation Report provided by the valuer concluded the property was mortgageable, and 
confirmed the valuer considered comparison prices for similar properties in the area. The 
valuer confirmed that in their professional view, the property was only valued at £255,000 for 
mortgage purposes.
I can empathise with Mr Ps view that he paid for a Structural Engineers Report, when the 
valuer could have explained the property value wouldnt reach the purchase price before he 
paid for the report. However, Nat West has followed its valuation process and it is entitled to 
rely on the professional opinion of a RICS valuer regarding the valuation of the property for 
mortgage purposes. As I said earlier, the valuer must first decide whether the property is 
mortgageable. When the valuer was unsure, a Structural Engineers Report was requested 
to clarify the position. At this point, I wouldnt expect Nat West to provide an opinion on the 
value of the property, or for it to reasonably expect the valuation to be significantly less than 
the purchase price. This was for the independent valuer it had instructed to establish.
It is extremely unfortunate that once he was satisfied the property was mortgageable, the 
valuer decided the valuation for mortgage purposes was significantly below the proposed 
purchase price. However, Nat West followed its valuation process and I do not think it did 
anything wrong. I can fully accept that another valuer may have placed a different value on 
the property, and that there may have been similar properties for sale at a similar price. But, 
having received an independent valuation from a RICS registered valuer, I think Nat West 
was entitled to rely on the valuation provided.
I can see that Mr P is unhappy the valuer didnt tell Nat West the property was valued at 
below the purchase price until after he had seen Structural Engineers Report. While I cant 
comment on the process the valuer followed, if he is still unhappy, Mr P can raise a 
complaint about the valuer with RICS.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I wont be asking National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020. 
Paul LawtonOmbudsman