DRN-4267614
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the service Revolut Ltd provided after she fell victim of an authorised 
push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Miss K says she was contacted by a government official who explained she was under 
investigation, and she had to make a payment, or she would receive a fine of £29,000 or 
face criminal charges brought against her. 
Miss K has explained that she was told not to tell anyone as her place of work was also 
under investigation. She says the scammer called her from a number listed on the 
government officials website and spent four hours on the phone talking her into transferring 
the money. Miss K was told once she had transferred the funds, she would receive the funds 
back after the investigation was completed.
Miss K set up a new payee and made several internal transfers to another Revolut account 
in a third parties name, the details of which the scammer had provided. The transactions she 
made are:
Date Time Amount
24/03/2023 12.19 £640
24/03/2023 13.2 £640
24/03/2023 14.3 £796
24/03/2023 16.19 £900
24/03/2023 16.22 £840
After making the transactions and not receiving the refund Miss K realised she had fallen 
victim of a scam. So, on 24 March 2023, she contacted Revolut, via its in-app chat support, 
to explain what happened. 
Revolut have said it immediately (within 24 hours) launched a request to freeze and retrieve 
the funds from the beneficiarys account. However, on 25 March 2023, it was confirmed that 
no funds were available to retrieve. On the same day it notified Miss K. So, Miss K raised 
complaint with Revolut.
Firstly, Revolut said its systems detected that some of Miss Ks payments were being sent to 
new beneficiaries. As such, it displayed a message in Miss Ks app saying Do you know 
and trust this payee? If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get 
your money back. Revolut said Miss K acknowledged these warnings and proceeded 
anyway.
Secondly, it said that its systems detected that some of the transfers were out of character 
and stopped a transaction. It then proceeded to warn Miss K once more that it was very 
likely that she was falling victim to a scam. And Revolut also provided Miss K with a link to a 
blog where it informs its customers on different types of possible scams. It says Miss K 
dismissed the warning and issued a second transfer to the same beneficiary.
However, while Revolut says its systems did flag the transaction as suspicious and issued a 
warning, it is satisfied the funds were not out of line with her usual account expenditure. It 
went on to explain that, when it was made aware of Miss Ks circumstances, it acted quickly 
and promptly to try and recover the funds. As such, it feels it hasnt done anything wrong.
Miss K remained unhappy with Revoluts response and referred the case to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint. She said she felt Revolut ought to have been 
concerned about the £900 and £840 transactions. She explained that while she didnt think 
the value of the transactions was necessarily out of character, she did consider that there 
was a new payee and the fact Miss K continued to make several payments on the same day 
during a four-hour period which she hadnt done before. 
That said, our investigator also considered that Miss K ignored the warning given by Revolut, 
didnt visit the website which the warning referred her to, didnt verify the scammers story 
with the government official the scammer said they were calling from and didnt consider the 
payments were being made to an individuals name oppose to the government officials 
name. Therefore, she felt Miss K should bear some of the responsibility for the situation she 
now finds herself in. 
So, she recommended that Revolut refund 50% of the payments Miss K made from the £900 
payment onwards (totalling £1,740); the total she recommended it refund was £870. In her 
view, said simple interest should be added to this amount at 8% per annum, as the funds 
used were from Miss Ks current account. This should be applied from the date of payment 
until the settlement is paid. 
Miss K didnt agree, so she asked for the complaint to be referred to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Miss K has lost money in a cruel scam. I can understand how stressful 
and upsetting this must have been for her given the circumstances. 
It is clear Miss Ks concern is that Revolut ought to have prevented the payments she 
instructed it to make. The starting position is that Revolut ought to follow the instructions 
given by its consumers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed. But Ive 
considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Miss K from falling victim to 
this scam. 
As an Electronic Money Institution (EMI), Revolut doesnt necessarily have the same 
obligations as a bank. I nonetheless find that there are still some situations where it should 
reasonably have a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transaction or 
set of payments because they indicate a consumer might be at risk of financial harm from 
fraud (amongst other things). For example, if account movements were markedly out of 
character or suspicious for a consumer compared to how they typically operated their 
account.
When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, its 
often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary disruptions. With that in mind, Ive considered whether Revolut should have considered these payments 
as being sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to the extent that it ought to have had 
sufficient grounds for suspecting fraud.
The first payment Miss K made for £640 was declined due to Revoluts security system 
prompting it to trigger due to a new payee being set up on the account (I note that Revolut 
maintain this wasnt due to the transaction being suspicious). However, I am also aware that 
Miss K received a generic fraud warning explaining why this transaction was declined, which 
said:
Our systems have identified your transactions as highly suspicious. We declined it to protect 
you, if you decide to make the payment again anyway, you can and we wont decline it.
It went on to explain that as Revolut had warned Miss K, if she did continue to make the 
payment it may not be able to recover the funds. It also included a link to its website which 
provides customers with more information to help them understand prevalent scams. I have 
seen evidence to show this warning was activated and Miss K continued with the payment.
I can also see that Miss K was given a warning when she set up a new payee which said:
Do you know and trust this payee? If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able 
to help you get your money back. After receiving this warning Miss K proceeded.
I accept Revoluts point that the value of each transaction was low and in line with the value 
of other transactions on Miss Ks account. So, in regard to this point I agree, the value of the 
transaction was not significantly out of character or significant enough to trigger on Revoluts 
fraud detection systems. 
That said, I also note that there were five (four authorised) transactions made over the space 
of four hours, to a new beneficiary. This is unusual activity and is uncharacteristic in relation 
to Miss Ks usual pattern of account activity. And given that a fraud warning had already 
been activated, I think its reasonable to conclude by the fourth payment at 16.19pm for £900 
Revolut ought to have considered this activity as unusual and suspicious. As such, I think it 
is reasonable to conclude that this ought to have triggered its fraud detection system. So, I 
think Revolut ought to have contacted Miss K and asked her to provide further details about 
the payment in question before letting it go.
Ive thought carefully about the kind of questions I believe Revolut ought to have asked   
Miss K and if those questions would have ultimately made a difference to her going ahead 
with the payment. Still, I have also had to bear in mind that the level and depth of 
questioning has to be proportionate to the situation - I have to consider that Miss K should 
not have been subjected to an interrogation by Revolut, pursuant to the relevant rules and 
accepted good industry practice.
In my view, it would have been proportionate for Revolut to have asked Miss K to provide 
details such as; to whom the money was being paid to; why; how she had been contacted; if 
the payee had provided any documentation to validate the story; and what Miss K had done 
to check the validation of the story. If it had done so, on the balance of probabilities, I think 
Miss K or Revolut would have quickly established that she was in the process of being 
scammed and consequently the payment wouldnt have been sent and her losses from that 
point onwards would have been avoided. 
I say this because, upon asking Miss K the above questions, she would have likely revealed 
how she had been contacted, what she had been asked to do and that there was no 
validation of the story such as documentation. The only thing Miss K would probably have 
disclosed is that she had checked the phone number that had contacted her. I have taken this into account along with the fact Miss K wasnt given a cover story and the scammer 
wasnt coaching her on how to answer the question (in real time) Revolut may ask. 
Whats more, I find it fair to say that this scenario created by the scammers is something I 
would expect a regulated EMI like Revolut to have identified as very suspicious. The 
circumstances seemed at odds with how a consumer would normally be told about an 
alleged outstanding tax bill. Not least, because Revolut often tackles an array of different 
authorised scams  and this had the hallmarks of such. 
I have also considered if Revolut took reasonable steps to try and recover the funds. Miss K 
contacted Revolut on 24 March 2023 and I have seen evidence to show that Revolut took 
steps to retrieve the funds. However, on 25 March 2023, it confirmed no funds were 
available to retrieve. Having reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied that Revolut did employ 
reasonable endeavours to try and recover the funds but was unfortunately unsuccessful.
With that in mind, all thats left for me to decide is whether this redress (a refund of the £900 
and £840 payment) should bear a deduction for the acts or omissions by Miss K. This can 
otherwise be known as contributory negligence.
Contributory negligence is an important consideration when making an award. It can be 
explained as weighing up whether a consumer should have done something to mitigate their 
losses. Under these circumstances, to make a deduction for contributory negligence I must 
be satisfied of two things; Miss K was partly at fault for these payments being irretrievably 
made; and a link can be established between this fault and the financial loss she has 
incurred.
Theres no doubt that this was a cruel scam and I certainly wouldnt want it to come across 
as me placing blame on Miss K for this. Even so, I am obliged to consider contributory 
negligence, and in doing so, the starting point is to think about what a reasonable person 
would be expected to do in the circumstances  and whether Miss Ks actions fell below that.
Having reviewed the circumstances of the scam, I think there were some red flags. And 
when considering the accumulation of these warning signs I think its fair to conclude that 
Miss K ought reasonably to have known something was untoward. Miss K has explained that 
prior to making the first transfer, she had been on the phone to the scammer for four hours, 
so I accept she would have been tired and concerned about the criminal charges she was 
facing. 
That said, Miss K was able to check the contact number which had called her and confirmed 
it was listed on the website of the government official who the scammer was impersonating. 
As such, Miss K was able to carry out some due diligence. We also know she was able to 
contact friends to arrange for help to make the payments being asked of her  meaning that 
she was able to check certain things and communicate during the material time. 
Consequently, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude further steps could have been 
taken to establish the validity of the story. Such as, contacting the government official to 
check prior to transferring the funds. Indeed, Im aware that Miss K did do this (after making 
all the transfers) and this is how she established she had fallen victim of a scam. It follows 
that, if this had been done originally, its very likely that it would have prevented further 
payments being sent to the scammer.
Secondly, prior to making the payment, the scammer had provided Miss K with the details of 
the bank account the funds needed to be transferred to. And this was in an individuals name 
oppose to the government officials name. I think its reasonable to conclude that this ought 
to have raised some concerns regarding the scammers story and validity and who Miss K 
was actually sending money to. Not least, because Miss K was told the UK tax office was 
pursuing her for payment  which begs the question why an individual would need to be sent 
funds. Ive also given the serious nature of the accusations Miss K was being accused of (tax 
evasion). And the fact Miss K was contacted via a social media messaging platform to be 
notified of such charges. I think its fair to say that most people would have considered this 
somewhat suspicious. Not to have any formal documentation outlining the charges or 
evidencing such accusations. And the first time she had heard about it was via a social 
media messaging platform. Again, I think this ought to raise some concerns for Miss K given 
the official nature of the alleged crime.
Miss K was also told that after making the transfers she would be refunded straight away, 
and these charges were for case resolvent charges. But again, considering the serious 
accusations Miss K faced, and the fact she was told she would face a fine for £29,000, this 
story doesnt strike me as being reasonably acceptable (without further enquiry). Why would 
she be refunded an amount for case resolvent charges when the story was, she had been 
accused of tax evasion and therefore, money was owed? And if it was for case resolvent 
charges why was it being refunded? I do think this ought to have raised apparent and 
immediate concerns for Miss K and ought to have made her want to enquire further about 
what the charges were actually for. And if Miss K had have clarified the position with the 
relevant government body (which she went on to do after she had made the transfers) it 
would have been revealed to her it was a scam.
So, after taking into consideration the accumulation of warning signs I conclude that a 
reasonable person would have started to seriously doubt the plausibility of the scammers 
story. As a consequence, I think Miss K couldve done more to protect herself. It follows that, 
in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable that Revolut should 
take 50% liability from when I feel the payment ought to have triggered (as outlined above) 
with Miss K being held liable for the remaining half. Overall, I find this a commensurate 
deduction that is just and equitable in the circumstances. I also understand that Revolut has 
accepted this position as it accepted the investigators opinion.
Putting things right
As outlined above, Revolut Ltd has already accepted 50% liability and should now pay Miss 
K £870, plus statutory interest of 8% to settle the complaint: I find this is fair and reasonable 
for the reasons I have explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Revolut Ltd should pay Miss K in line 
with my findings outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman