DRN-3591337
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have failed to refund around 
£7,000 she lost as part of an investment scam. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S authorised the disputed payments she made to Moonpay 
from her Barclays account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from her crypto wallet). The payments were requested by her using her 
legitimate security credentials provided by Barclays, and the starting position is that 
banks ought to follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate 
payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Barclays should have done more to prevent Mrs S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mrs S says she has lost around £7,000 which is a significant 
amount of money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character 
transaction. It was spread over several separate smaller increments which, in my 
judgment, would not have appeared particularly unusual or out of character when 
compared with Mrs Ss spending history, such that they ought to have been regarded 
as suspicious or indicating that she might have been at risk of falling victim to a 
scam. The payments were not of such an amount, for example, that they would have 
represented a significant deviation from the way Mrs Ss account was normally run, 
as I can see she had previously made several payments for over £2,000, and one for 
£3,000 in the 12 months before the disputed payments. 
Moonpay is also a legitimate company and cryptocurrency exchange platform, so 
there would have been no reason for Barclays to have automatically blocked the 
payment due to it going to a suspicious looking merchant either.
So, having considered the payments Mrs S made to Moonpay, Im not persuaded 
there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Barclays fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Mrs S has also mentioned certain payments that she made by debit card as part of 
the scam, which would allow for a chargeback claim to be made. However, in these 
circumstances, Mrs S wouldve used her debit card to pay Moonpay  a legitimate 
crypto-exchange platform - before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammer. So, she wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in these 
circumstances because the company she paid had provided the services as intended 
(i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think Barclays would have 
been under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mrs S either.
I note that Mrs S has made reference to the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code, and Ive thought about whether it would apply here. However, the Code 
does not apply to card payments, and neither does it apply to payments made by a 
customer to another account in their own name if it was an authorised push payment. 
So, given that Mrs S made payments into her own crypto account with Moonpay 
(rather than directly to the scammer), the Code would not apply. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Barclays liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman