DRN-3258402
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance Limited was misrepresented.
What happened
On 2 January 2021, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MotoNovo. Mr R paid a £1,000 deposit and the agreement was for £17,990 over 60 
months, with monthly repayments of £369.18. At the time the car was just over four years old 
and had done 54,782 miles.
The car broke down in July 2021. Mr R says it cost him £150 to have the car recovered to a 
manufacturers dealership, and £1,200 for repairs to the starter motor. The dealership 
couldnt offer Mr R any discount on the repairs because the car didnt have a history of being 
serviced by a manufacturers dealership. Because of this, Mr R says he felt obliged to pay 
£700 for a service.
Mr R said that the car had been advertised as having a full service history, and that he 
wouldnt have bought a car without this. When he asked about this, he says the supplying 
dealership told him the service history was available electronically. And it wasnt until the car 
broke down that he discovered the service history wasnt present. However, the supplying 
dealership say that the paper service history was provided to Mr R at the point of supply.
Mr R complained to MotoNovo that the sale had been misrepresented. But MotoNovo said 
there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mr R hadnt been supplied with the service 
history. So, they didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr R wasnt happy with MotoNovos response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that, for misrepresentation to be present, a false statement of fact 
needs to have taken place. And the supplying dealership have said that Mr R was provided 
with the full service history when he was supplied with the car. So, even though Mr had said 
this didnt happen, the investigator said there wasnt enough evidence to reasonably say that 
a false statement of fact had occurred. So, he didnt think MotoNovo needed to do anything.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the car wasnt provided with a service 
history and he feels its for the dealership to prove the service history was supplied to him. 
And he never wouldve taken the car if hed known it didnt have a service history. Mr R 
asked that an ombudsman review his complaint and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
This is a complaint about misrepresentation. When considering misrepresentation Im 
looking at two things  whether there was a false statement of fact and, if there was, whether 
it was the false statement of fact that induced Mr R to choose the car.
Ive seen a copy of the advert from when the supplying dealership offered the car for sale. 
This clearly says that the car was provided with a full service history. However, the advert 
doesnt distinguish whether the services were done by a manufacturer dealership or by an 
independent (non-manufacturer affiliated) garage.
When the car broke down in July 2021, Mr R says he wasnt offered a discount on the repair 
costs because the car didnt have a history of being serviced by a manufacturers dealership. 
This means that, even if the car had a full service history, but not all services had been 
carried out by manufacturers dealership, then Mr R wouldnt have been offered this 
discount. Im therefore satisfied that the existence or otherwise of a full service history isnt 
directly related to whether or not Mr R received a discount on the repairs.
Mr R has said that he had the car serviced by a manufacturers dealership in July 2021. Hes 
also said that the records of this type of service are only available electronically. And I dont 
doubt that either of these things is the case. But I havent seen a printout of the 
manufacturers service history of the car to show me whether or not the July 2021 service 
was the only one carried out by the manufacturer.
The manufacturer recommends that the type of car Mr R was supplied with is first serviced 
after 1 year or 10,000 miles, and then every 2 years or 20,000 miles. Based on the age and 
mileage of the car when it was supplied, Id expect it to have had either two services (based 
on time) or three services (based on mileage). And, as far as Ive been able to ascertain, 
even though the manufacturer keeps an electronic record of the service history, Mr Rs car 
wouldve been supplied with a service history book.
In an email dated 11 February 2021, just over a month after Mr R was supplied with the car, 
he raised issues about the car with the supplying dealership. He said that one of the lights 
wasnt working, that there were some dents in a door, and that the engine bay was dirty. 
However, he didnt raise any issues about the service history not being supplied, or the 
service history book being missing.
Ive seen that Mr R was asked to confirm if a service history book was supplied with the car. 
But he hasnt answered that question. He was also asked to provide a copy of anything 
resembling a service history book. This was to see whether any services were carried out by 
an independent garage. But Mr R hasnt responded to this request.
So, Im left with a situation where the supplying dealership are saying the car had a full 
service history, and this was supplied to Mr R in paper form i.e. by way of a service history 
book. And Mr is saying this wasnt the case. In a situation like this, I have to make my 
decision on what I think most likely happened, based on what evidence I do have.
A service history book was most likely supplied with the car when it was brand new. This 
would be part of the document pack and is something thats likely to have only been 
removed when a service took place. And then it wouldve been returned. So, a service 
history book is highly likely to remain with the car for its lifetime.Theres no electronic record of a full service history, otherwise Mr R wouldve been offered a 
discount on the repairs in July 2021. So, any record of the service history would most likely 
have been contained within the service history book. And the supplying dealership would 
only know whether there was a full service history, if theyd seen this recorded in the service 
history book. Which again implies the service history book was with the car.
The supplying dealership say the service history book was present when the car was 
supplied to Mr R. And Mr R didnt complain about this being missing when he raised his 
issues with them on 11 February 2021. And, when directly asked if it was present as part of 
this investigation into his complaint, he didnt answer the question.
As such, based on the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that 
the car was supplied with a full service history, as advertised. And this was contained within 
the service history book. However, the car wasnt advertised with a full manufacturers 
service history, so a service history that contains non-manufacturer services doesnt mean 
that the advert was misleading.
Its for these reasons why I dont think the sale was misrepresented. And I wont be asking 
MotoNovo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about MotoNovo Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman