DRN-3781838
The complaint
Mr Os complained that hes not heard from Match Me Legal Ltd (MML) since February 
2021  so hes concerned about the security of the personal information he provided to 
them.
What happened
Mr O says he was approached by MML in 2020, who told him they had evidence he had a 
claim for a mis-sold mortgage and offered to deal with the claim for him.  MML requested 
various pieces of personal information to help them do this, which Mr O provided.
Mr O heard nothing from MML and contacted them in February 2021 to find out what was 
happening.  MML told him they were trying to secure funding for a solicitor to pursue his 
claim on a no win, no fee basis and theyd let him know when that was in place.  
Mr O has heard nothing since, so contacted our service in March 2022.  He said he was less 
concerned about pursuing the claim than about the personal information hed given MML 
and wanted assurances from them that was secure.
We contacted MML and asked them to address Mr Os complaint directly with him.  But Mr O 
told us he never heard from them.  So the matter was passed to one of our investigators to 
consider.
The investigator contacted MML to ask them to send their file.  But, despite being chased, 
MML never supplied this.  So the investigator based his conclusions on the information 
provided by Mr O and what was publicly available on MMLs website.
He said MMLs website explains why they collect personal data and how its stored, and he 
was satisfied the data had been requested appropriately.  And, while he acknowledged      
Mr Os concern, he noted Mr O hadnt seen anything which led him to suspect his personal 
information had been compromised.  
But the investigator did conclude it was unreasonable for MML not to have replied to Mr Os 
requests for updates for over 18 months and that this caused Mr O some stress and 
inconvenience.  He said Mr O should be paid £150 compensation for this. 
Because MML didnt respond to the investigators view, Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Os complaint.  Ill explain why.
As MML havent responded to our investigators view on Mr Os complaint, I have  like him 
 relied on the information and testimony Mr Os provided.  
Mr O contacted us because he was concerned about the security of his data.  But, as our 
investigator explained during his investigation, issues about the management of data are 
investigated by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).  So, while I understand Mr Os 
concern, hell need to contact the ICO if he wants to pursue that issue, because I cant say 
whether a data breach has occurred.
But I have considered whether MML kept Mr O informed as they should have done.  
Paragraph 6.1.9 of the Claims Management: Conduct of Business sourcebook (CMCOB) 
requires claims management companies to update their customers at least once every six 
months.  Mr O says this wasnt done.  
In the absence of any evidence to contradict that, and based on the email threads Ive seen, 
I think its fair to conclude MML havent adhered to this.  I agree with our investigator that 
MML should compensate Mr O for the stress and inconvenience this caused him.  And I 
agree £150 is a reasonable amount to do that.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Os complaint about Match Me Legal 
Ltd and directing them to pay Mr O £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman