DRN-1319621
The complaint
Miss B complains that Bank of Scotland plc (T/A Halifax) allowed a third party to close her 
savings account and withdraw funds in that account. Shes also unhappy Halifax refused to 
allow her to withdraw money from her account when she attended a branch. Miss B also 
complains that Halifax decided to close the savings account she had opened to replace the 
one closed by a third party. 
What happened
On 11 January 2019 Miss B opened a regular saver account with Halifax into which she paid 
just over £400. 
On 22 July 2019 a third party impersonated Miss B and visited a Halifax branch. During that 
visit they closed Miss Bs savings account and withdrew all her savings. Miss B said these 
funds were earmarked for a family summer holiday, which she was unable to arrange.
On 25 July 2019 Miss B raised a fraud claim as a result of what happened. On 2 August 
2019, Halifax completed its investigation and reimbursed the missing funds back to Miss B. It 
also made a goodwill payment of £262.82 to reflect the inconvenience she had been caused.
Miss B said Halifax sent her a letter telling her it would be closing the savings account shed 
tried to open to replace the one that was closed without her permission. She said this letter 
gave her two months notice and said closure would take place on 27 November 2019. Miss 
B said she was also informed that any withdrawals from her account would have to be made 
in branch in person. Halifax said it hadnt made an error in deciding to close Miss Bs 
account as it was entitled to end its relationship with her and had given the notice required 
by the terms and conditions of her account.
On 8 October 2019 Miss B attended her branch to withdraw the £6.16 balance from her 
account. She said she travelled to her branch by taxi and was intending to use the money in 
her account to travel to her children. But Halifax refused to allow Miss B to access the 
money in her account. So, she had to walk from the branch to collect her children, which 
caused her to reach them late. When Miss B complained about this to Halifax it apologised 
and upheld her complaint. It paid her £83 compensation to acknowledge its error.
Miss B was extremely unhappy about all of this and referred her complaint to our service. 
She didnt think the compensation Halifax had offered here adequately recognised the 
trouble and upset its mistake had caused. Our investigator looked into what had happened 
and, while they empathised with Miss B, they didnt think Halifax needed to do anything more 
here. They thought that the compensation Halifax had already paid Miss B was appropriate 
and fair. But Miss B disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Miss B and Halifax that Ive read everything thats been sent. So 
if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Miss B experienced. I can appreciate how this all must 
have caused her distress and inconvenience. I know she feels very strongly about this 
matter, which is understandable. And I appreciate the reasons why she has brought her 
complaint to us. But what I must determine here is whether Halifax acted fairly and 
reasonably. And Ill explain why I think it has.
There are three parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
The fraudulent closure of Miss Bs savings account
Its accepted here that Miss B didnt close her savings account. She was impersonated by a 
third party and the evidence suggests that this was her sister. Halifax has already 
reimbursed the money that was withdrawn from Miss Bs saving account, which is what Id 
expect it to do here.
I can see that Halifax completed its investigation into what happened and reimbursed Miss B 
within 6 business days. Halifax was right to treat the closure of Miss Bs account and 
withdrawal of her money as fraud and Im satisfied it was able to properly investigate what 
happened. 
Halifax was able to give Miss B a fair explanation of how the fraudulent closure of her 
savings account had taken place. This may not have gone into the level of detail Miss B 
wanted, or expected. But impartially, I think Halifax gave Miss B the information it was able 
to as to what had happened. I dont think itd be fair for me to ask Halifax to do anymore 
here.
I understand that the fraudulent closure of Miss Bs account meant she wasnt able to use 
the money that was withdraw, which was earmarked as holiday funds. Miss B says this 
meant she wasnt able to go on holiday with her family.
With that in mind Ive thought about whether the level of compensation Halifax offered Miss 
B appropriately recognises what happened. She was inconvenienced and I dont doubt she 
wouldve been worried before she knew that Halifax would be refunding her money. But I 
think Halifax did all it could to promptly remedy what had happened. 
I havent seen any evidence to show that Miss B had to cancel a pre-booked holiday. So, Im 
satisfied she didnt lose out financially in this respect. Halifax compensated her £262.82. 
This consisted of £150 to acknowledge her distress and inconvenience, £102 to reflect the 
cost of telephone calls and travel to the branch and £10.82 to cover the perceived loss of 
interest Miss B suffered as a result of her account closing. Taking everything into account, I 
think that sum is fair to recognise the impact this had on her. So, I wont be asking it to 
increase that award.
Refusal to allow Miss B to withdraw money in branch
Halifax accepted it made an error in not allowing Miss B to withdraw the balance of her 
account on 8 October 2019 when she visited her branch. I appreciate how upsetting and 
inconvenience this must have been. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint she had travelled there by taxi and was intending to use the money in her account to travel to her 
children. As a result of not being able withdraw her money she was late reaching her 
children as she had to walk there. 
Halifax awarded Miss B £83 to acknowledge its error here. This sum consisted of £50 as 
way of an apology, £15 to cover the cost of travel to the branch and £18 to cover the cost of 
telephone calls. Overall, Im satisfied that the compensation offered here fairly recognises 
the impact this had on Miss B. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking Halifax to pay any more.
Decision to close Miss Bs account and require in branch withdrawals
The final part of Miss Bs complaint concerns Halifaxs decision to close her account and the 
requirement that she attend a branch to make withdrawals. Its clear she feels shes been 
unfairly treated.
Miss B opened this savings account on 7 August 2019 to replace the savings account that 
was closed without her consent the previous month. Halifax said that on 9 August 2019 it 
took the decision to close that account. I appreciate that this is frustrating and inconvenient 
to Miss B. But, as a business, Halifax is entitled to end its relationship with her by closing her 
account, as long as it complies with the relevant terms and conditions.
The term that applies here states:
"If we decide to close your account, we will write to you at least two months before"
Halifax doesnt have to give Miss B a reason for closing her account. But, as the above term 
says, it must give her at least two months notice before doing so. In this case Miss B 
accepts she was given the required notice. So, Halifax hasnt made an error here.
Having decided to close Miss Bs account Halifax told her shed need to attend a branch in 
person to withdraw her account balance. Like our investigator explained in their view I think 
this was a reasonable precaution to put in place given how Miss Bs account funds were 
withdrawn last time. Attending in person will enable Halifax to ensure its releasing Miss Bs 
money to the correct person. And it will protect both Miss B and Halifax against further 
fraudulent activity. I dont think thats unreasonable given what happened. It follows that I 
cant fairly criticise this approach.
I appreciate that Miss B feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything shes said. But I think Halifax has dealt with this complaint 
fairly and done all it can to resolve this dispute. Im satisfied that the compensation its 
already awarded Miss B fairly reflects the trouble and upset she was caused here. So, Im 
not going to ask it to do anymore here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman