DRN-4065958
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as M complain that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited 
(referred to in this decision as Cashplus) wont refund the money it lost in a scam.
Mr M, who is a director of M, brings this complaint on Ms behalf. 
What happened
Mr M says that he received a text message from another bank he has an account with 
asking him if hed made a transaction. He confirmed that he hadnt, and shortly afterwards 
received a call from the other bank during which he was asked if he had any other accounts. 
Mr M said he had an account with Cashplus and was told that this account might also be 
compromised. Soon after, Mr M received another call from someone who claimed to be from 
Cashplus. Mr M didnt know at the time, but the caller was a scammer. The caller asked Mr 
M to check the number hed called from online to prove that he was from Cashplus. The 
number matched. Mr M was asked whether hed made certain transactions and was advised 
that his Cashplus account had been compromised. The caller said an employee of Cashplus 
was thought to be responsible and the police were investigating. 
Mr M was advised to move £21,000 from Ms business account to another account with 
Cashplus in his name. He was then asked to make further payments to two other accounts. 
The reason for transferring funds to different accounts was because funds were being 
tracked by a fraudster at the bank and using multiple accounts would make it more difficult. 
Mr M was then asked to make a payment to someone hed already paid - his brother, to 
ensure the funds werent tracked internally. After the £21,000 payment the others didnt go 
through. Mr M called Cashplus while the scammer listened in and was coached about what 
to say. He agreed that only the £20,000 payment to his brothers account should be made 
and all other payments cancelled. 
Mr M then made further online payments to his brothers business account (£8,500, £8,000 
and £1,300). The £8,000 payment was also held by Cashplus but later released after Mr M 
made another call. Mr Ms brother then transferred the funds (including the earlier £20,000) 
to account details provided to Mr M by the caller.  
I have set out the position in a table (all transactions were on the same day  27 July 2022). 
The amounts in bold are successful payments that havent been recovered. 
Time 
payment 
initiatedTime payment 
madeAmount Account Notes
11:54 11.54 £21,000 1  payee name Mr M Full amount 
recovered
12:00 £20,000 2 - payee name Mr M Cancelled in call 
12:05 £20,000 2 - payee name Mr M Cancelled in call
12:11 £9,800 3 - payee name Mr M Cancelled in call
12:21 13:25 £20,000 Mr Ms brothers 
business account
12:37 £4,000 Mr Ms brothers 
business accountCancelled in call
12.42 £9,800 4 - Named individual  
not Mr MCancelled in call
13.50 13:50 £8,500 Mr Ms brothers 
business account
13:54 14:23 £8,000 Mr Ms brothers 
business accountReleased during 
subsequent call
14:25 14:33 £1,300 Mr Ms brothers 
business account
Total loss £37,800
Later that day, Mr M realised he was the victim of a scam and called Cashplus to report what 
had happened. 
Cashplus didnt reimburse M the funds that were lost in the scam. It noted that it isnt signed 
up to the voluntary Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the 
CRM Code) and had intervened when an unusual payment was made but some of the 
answers provided by Mr M werent correct. Cashplus went on to say it had done what it 
could to recover Ms funds but had only been able to recover the initial £21,000 payment. 
Mr M thinks Cashplus didnt do enough to protect him when the payments were made or to 
recover the payments. He asked Cashplus a series of questions in respect of the recovery of 
his funds, but Cashplus didnt answer them, saying his complaint had been passed to this 
service. Mr M was also unhappy with the service provided by Cashplus when he reported 
the scam. He has referred to the huge impact this scam has had on him personally and on 
his business. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld. She said the 
payments made by M were significant and out of character and although Cashplus said it 
had called Mr M about the second payment it hadnt provided a call recording. The 
investigator also didnt think Mr M contributed to his own loss as he was called from a 
spoofed number, was taken through security questions and the scammer knew about some 
of his transactions and knew details of his brothers account.
After the investigator issued her view Cashplus found the recording of the call it had with Mr 
M when the second payment was made. But the investigator didnt think Cashplus went far 
enough in this call as Mr M wasnt asked the purpose of the payment or why Mr M was 
sending payments to an account that he thought was in his own name when Cashplus knew 
this wasnt the case. And Cashplus didnt provide scam advice to enable Mr M to understand 
how scams of this nature work. 
Cashplus didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, it said it couldnt have 
done anything more to prevent the scam from happening and that it was clear Mr M wanted 
the payments to be made and had sufficient funds to do so. Although the £21,000 payment 
didnt flag on its systems as suspicious, subsequent payments did and Cashplus had a 
conversation with Mr M when he confirmed he wished to make payments to his brothers 
account. Cashplus say it asked appropriate questions and Mr M confirmed that he hadnt 
been approached by anyone whod asked him to make a payment. Following this call Mr M 
made further payments online. Given its earlier interaction with Mr M, Cashplus felt there 
was no reason to contact him again about these payments. As Mr M was unhappy with Cashplus response the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case as Cashplus hasnt signed up to it.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Cashplus should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Cashplus acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr M when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I 
have considered the position carefully.
Did Cashplus act fairly and reasonably when it made the payments?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Cashplus should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive first considered 
whether the payment requests Mr M made on behalf of M were unusual or uncharacteristic.
Ive reviewed Ms bank statements for the 12-month period before the scam payments. 
These show that the initial payment of £21,000 was unusual and out of character given 
previous account use and payment history. I say this because the largest payments from the 
account before the scam were two payments of £10,000 to well-known companies dealing 
with savings, pensions and investments. So a £21,000 payment to an individual payee stood 
out.
I cant say for sure what would have happened if Cashplus had intervened at this stage and 
asked Mr M questions about the payment. But given the intervention that subsequently took place I consider it more likely than not that Cashplus wouldnt have done enough and could 
have prevented Ms loss. But Ive also noted that the first payment of £21,000 has been 
recovered in full and Cashplus did speak to Mr M about future payments. So Ive focused on 
what happened when the subsequent payments were made.
Although Cashplus say these later payments werent out of character I note that it held them 
for review and spoke to Mr M about them. So I think Cashplus did have some concerns and 
this is why it intervened. I think Cashplus was right to do so, given the nature of the 
payments Mr M was seeking to make.
Ive listened to the calls Mr M made to Cashplus on the day the payments were made. 
Initially Mr M called Cashplus and said he was frustrated as hed tried to make a number of 
payments, including two for £20,000 and payments for £9,800 and £4,000, but nothing had 
gone out. No questions were asked, and Mr M was told the payments would go through but 
if they didnt - he should call back. 
Mr M made a further call as the payments had not been released. The advisor spoke to a 
member of the fraud department who questioned the fact Mr M had said he was making 
payments to his brother but the payee name was Mr M. The fraud team decided to speak to 
Mr M. During a short call Mr M was told that some payments had been flagged for additional 
security checks. He was asked some security questions to identify him and then the adviser 
went on to say, 
Can you just confirm that no-one has requested that you make these payments out of the 
blue, youve not received any phone calls or emails asking for the payment to be sent to any 
other account details.
Mr M said no and that he was frustrated at the time it was taking to make the payments. He 
was asked if the payments were going to himself, and he said a couple were and some were 
to his brothers business account. The advisor questioned whether the account Mr M was 
sending the £9,800 payment to was in his name and Mr M confirmed that it was a new 
account hed just opened up. The advisor noted that the payee name didnt match an 
account in Mr Ms name and Mr M said hed need to check that. The adviser then said, 
No-one has asked you to make any payment to any safe account or anything like that? No, 
youve not had your account compromised [inaudible] move money?.
Mr M said, No, not at all and then asked the Cashplus adviser to suspend all other 
payments and just make a payment to his brothers account of £20,000. No further questions 
were asked, and the payment was released.
I dont consider Cashplus went far enough in this call. Mr M had just made an out of 
character payment of £21,000. The purpose of the call was to discuss numerous payments 
Mr M had tried to make from Ms account in a very short timescale to multiple payees. This 
behaviour is typical in safe account scams, as is being given a cover story about an 
investigation and it being important not to tell the bank whats happened. Whilst I wouldnt 
expect Mr M to know these things, Cashplus as the expert should have. Mr M had also told 
Cashplus that the account was a new account in his own name  which is a clear indication 
of a safe account scam. So I think Cashplus needed to go further and not just accept Mr Ms 
answers at face value. Cashplus should have asked Mr M some probing questions to 
ascertain if he was at risk. 
Im aware that the payment Mr M asked Cashplus to process in that call wasnt to a new 
payee. Mr Ms brothers business was an existing payee and M had made a payment of 
£336 to it in March 2022. I have records from the end of June 2020 and cant see any other 
payments. Given the previous payment of £21,000 and the other payment requests Mr M 
chose to cancel when he spoke to Cashplus though, and the points Ive raised above, I still 
consider Cashplus ought to have intervened and challenged Mr Ms responses. I consider it would have been reasonable for Cashplus to have asked Mr M what the payment to his 
brother was for.
Im confident that had Cashplus explained the common features of safe account scams 
including number spoofing and the need to keep funds safe and told Mr M that Cashplus 
would never ask him to do this or to lie, he wouldnt have gone ahead. I believe the fact he 
asked Cashplus to cancel all payments except those to his brother after its advisor told Mr M 
the account he was transferring to wasnt in his name supports this conclusion.  
I asked Mr M why he needed to move funds out of his brothers account. He explained that 
that the scammers told him the fraudster they were trying to catch was monitoring his 
transactions and could still trace the funds to his brothers account. 
Ive gone on to consider whether M should share the responsibility for the loss. On balance 
though, I dont think it should. I say this because: 
- Mr M received a call from a spoofed number which he checked. This persuaded him 
he was speaking to Cashplus. 
- In the previous call with another bank Mr M was told to expect a call from a 
representative of Cashplus so the call he then received wasnt unexpected.  
- Mr M said he was taken through security questions as hed expect from his genuine 
bank. 
- The scammer knew about some transactions from Ms account that led Mr M to 
believe the call was from Cashplus.
- Mr M was led to believe Ms funds were at risk and was put under pressure to act 
quickly. This is exactly how scams of this nature work. He wasnt allowed the 
opportunity to stop and think as the scammer stayed on the phone throughout. 
- Mr M asked questions of the scammer, such as why funds needed to be moved from 
his brothers account, and was provided with an explanation that seemed plausible to 
him at the time - and whilst he was still under the spell of the scammer. 
- In the calls Cashplus had with Mr M, he was never advised that Cashplus would 
never ask him to lie or move his money to a safe account. 
- Mr M clearly believed he was acted on the instructions of his genuine bank and 
moved almost the entire balance in Ms account in a few hours. 
Overall, Im satisfied M should be reimbursed the full amount lost in the scam. 
Interest
All payments were made from Ms current account so interest should be paid at the rate of 
8% simple per year from the date of loss to the date of settlement
My final decision
For the reasons stated I require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited to:
- Refund M £37,800;
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
loss to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman