DRN-3517816
The complaint
Mr B complains that when he encashed his holding in a fund held with Financial 
Administration Services Limited (Fidelity), he received around £158 less than he was told he 
would. He also complains that he received poor service for which he was entitled to be 
compensated. 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr B invested in a Latin American fund with Fidelity. In 10 December 2021, 
concerned by its drop in value, Mr B called Fidelity. In the call he asked for how much his 
holding was worth, and he was told it was worth around £10,469  and that this was based 
on the last pricing point. Mr B asked for this to be sold because he expected it to drop in 
value further, and was told that the deal would be placed that day  but as the fund was 
priced daily on a forward pricing basis, the amount he received could be slightly different to 
that which he had been quoted. Mr B went ahead and the investment was sold. 
Unfortunately, the funds value had dropped at the next pricing point, and Mr B received 
£10,311 - £158 less than he expected. So Mr B complained. 
Fidelity looked into his complaint  in short it explained why there had been no mistake and 
that the price he originally been quoted was only an estimate. As it took some time to resolve 
Mr Bs complaint, he was offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr B remained unhappy 
with what had happened to the proceeds of his investment and with the service he received 
following his complaint, so he referred the matter to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint, but she didnt think Fidelity needed to 
do anything further to put things right. In short, she explained the reasons why there was a 
variation in the proceeds of his investment compared to the valuation he received over the 
phone. She confirmed that what he had been told over the phone was correct, and his 
investment had been sold at the next pricing point. She acknowledged the issues he had 
experienced after he raised his complaint, but considered £100 was fair and reasonable 
compensation for that. 
Mr B didnt agree. He said he didnt accept the investigators findings, and considered the 
£100 he was offered was not fair compensation for the unprofessional and shambolic way 
the whole thing was handled. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but I dont have much to add to what the investigator has 
already said. I sympathise with Mr B and I do understand how disappointing it wouldve been 
to receive less for his investment than he had been told over the phone. But Im satisfied no 
error was made, and Fidelity did what it told Mr B it would do  namely sell his investment 
that day, at the next available price.
The investigator has already explained the relevant terms of the fund set out the in the Key 
Features document  and these explain how it is priced. And the evidence shows that 
Fidelity did give Mr B the price that day because he had called before the cut-off  and 
therefore that is the price he received. Ive listened to his original call with Fidelity and this is 
what he was told would happen. 
Furthermore Im satisfied that he was told that the value he had been quoted was 
approximate and based on the last pricing point. Mr B was told that there could be a slight 
variation in what he received because of the way the fund was priced  and this was also 
explained. 
I appreciate Mr B says that £158 is not slight and he expected it to mean only a few pounds 
 but whilst he may have understood something different, the advisor he spoke to at Fidelity 
would have had no way of knowing what the price of the fund was going to be in the future. 
Mr B says that if he had known it would be £158 he may have decided not to sell  but Mr B 
couldnt have known that in advance nor could Fidelity. What is clear is that Mr Bs view of 
the market at that point suggested the fund would drop further in value, and for that reason 
he had decided to sell. 
Whilst I accept Mr B wouldve wanted to know precisely how much hed receive before 
deciding to encash, that wasnt going to be possible  and I dont agree he was misled by 
Fidelity in that call. 
Mr B is also unhappy at the customer service he experienced after he made his complaint. I 
note that Fidelity has already paid him £100 compensation for that. Ive considered whether 
the issues Mr B experienced were such that further compensation ought to be awarded, and 
Im not persuaded that would be fair. 
Ultimately Mr Bs complaint was not upheld  the issue that caused him to complain was not 
an error by Fidelity, nor was it responsible for any financial loss. It concluded, as I have also 
done, that Mr B was sufficiently made aware in the phone call of the possibility that he might 
receive a different amount than was quoted on the phone and that he was told how the fund 
was priced. 
Whilst I appreciate there were some delays in keeping him updated and paying him the 
agreed amount of compensation, Im satisfied £100 is fair and reasonable given the 
particular circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman