DRN-3670451
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) disclosed information about her current 
account to her husband without her consent.
What happened
In May 2022, Mrs H and her husband went into a BOS branch to make a payment towards 
their credit cards. Mrs H advised she was seen by the cashier first. As Mrs H wanted to 
make the payment using cash, Mrs H says she was told by the cashier that she had to make 
the cash payment into her current account and then transfer the amount she deposited from 
her current account to her credit card account.
Once this transaction was completed, Mrs H waited outside the branch until her husband 
finished his banking. Unfortunately, an error was made and Mrs Hs current account was 
debited to make a payment to her husbands credit card account. Also, the BOS cashier 
provided Mrs Hs husband with a copy of Mrs Hs bank account statement and not his own. 
Mrs H feels this is a serious breach of her information as her husband was able to see 
transactions he wasnt aware of and this caused a disagreement between them. 
BOS explained the reason the payment was debited from Mrs Hs account in error was likely 
because the cashier didnt end the session with Mrs H on her system, before starting a new 
session with Mrs Hs husband. And this was also why a statement was printed for Mrs Hs 
account instead of her husbands. In recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused, 
BOS apologised and offered to pay Mrs H £80 compensation.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Hs concerns. In summary, she recognised that when Mrs H 
and her husband went back into the branch once they realised the error that had been 
made, the cashier apologised about what had happened and another staff member was able 
to rectify the mistake  the money was re-debited back into Mrs Hs current account from her 
husbands account on the same day. However, our Investigator felt it was fairer for BOS to 
pay £150 compensation for the distress caused.
Mrs H initially agreed with our Investigators recommendation of £150. But then Mrs H 
changed her mind as she didnt feel £150 adequately compensated her for what went wrong. 
Mrs H also says she has concerns that a third party was able to access her current account 
and take money from it. So instead, Mrs H asked for £500 compensation. As a result, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that something went wrong here  BOS have acknowledged the error was 
likely caused on their end and this was likely down to the cashier not ending the session on 
their system with Mrs H, before starting a new session with Mrs Hs husband as it seems he 
was seen by the same cashier. 
I appreciate Mrs H has concerns that a third party was able to access her account and take 
money from it. And Mrs H says anyone could have been given her information. But I dont 
believe this was done on any other basis other than it being an error. And I dont have any 
reason to disbelieve what BOS have told us  that it was down to the cashiers error. It 
seems once BOS were made aware of this error from Mrs H and her husband, things were 
rectified by another staff member and I can see from the information provided by BOS that 
the money was re-debited to Mrs Hs account from her husbands account on the same day. 
So, whats left for me to decide is the impact this has had on Miss H and what fair 
compensation is to resolve the matter.
Mrs H has confirmed she doesnt hold a joint account with her husband, and he was able to 
see transactions shed made when he got a copy of her bank account statement without her 
consent. As a result, this caused a disagreement, which I can imagine wasnt very pleasant 
for Mrs H. Im sorry to read of the stress this caused Mrs H and I can appreciate it would 
have been frustrating for her to find out that her husband had been given a copy of her bank 
account statement in error. 
Mrs H also had to spend more time than she was expecting in the BOS branch getting things 
unwound and rectified which I understand would have been inconvenient for her. However, it 
seems BOS helped Mrs H promptly when she told them about this issue  they were able to 
transfer the money out of her husbands account and back into her own account. Having 
thought about all of the distress and inconvenience caused, I think £150 compensation is fair 
in the circumstances.
Mrs H has also raised concerns that BOS have severely breached data protection. But if Mrs 
H remains concerned about this, shell need to raise this with the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO).
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to 
pay Mrs H a total of £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman