DRN-3397392
The complaint
Mr L complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax irresponsibly approved a credit 
card account application which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr L says he opened the Halifax credit card account in August 2017 and says he was in 
financial difficulties at the time which ought to have been obvious to Halifax. He says he was 
in debt at the time and had taken out payday lending prior to opening the account. Mr L says 
the account shouldnt have been approved and says he was overdrawn on his Halifax bank 
account. He says the lending was unaffordable and would like interest and charges 
refunded.
Halifax says the account was opened in August 2017 and it carried out appropriate checks. It 
says Mr L told it he earned £26,000 a year and calculated the affordability of the account. 
Halifax says there was no evidence Mr L couldnt afford the account or repay any borrowing. 
It says it wouldnt check bank account statements and says its up to Mr L to provide 
accurate information.
Mr L brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The investigator 
thought there were signs of unaffordability such as Mr Ls payday lending application in the 
days leading up to the credit card account application. And that Mr Ls outgoings appeared 
significantly higher than Halifaxs calculations. The investigator didnt think Mr L could have 
afforded the repayments and recommended interest and charges be refunded. 
Halifax doesnt accept that view and maintains there was no adverse information on Mr Ls 
credit file and that some of the spending was on non-essential items. It says it was not 
reasonable to check account statements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and amount of 
any lending. And a lender must ensure that any lending can be appropriately repaid.
I have looked carefully at the information that Mr L provided Halifax and can see that on the 
face of it he received an income of in excess of £25,000 from employment. I can also see 
that he didnt have any adverse information on his credit file such as any defaults or County 
Court Judgements. But I dont think that information provided a balanced picture of Mr Ls 
finances. As Mr L also took out short term loans included a loan within days of the Halifax 
credit card application. And that his Halifax bank account statements showed his account 
was overdrawn in the three months before this application.
Im satisfied that an overdraft is intended as a short-term method of borrowing, but Mr Ls 
account was largely overdrawn for months before the lending. I appreciate Halifax says it 
doesnt check customers bank accounts. But Im satisfied that information would have been 
shown on Mr Ls credit file, which was checked. 
So, Im satisfied that there ought to have been sufficient warning signs visible to Halifax 
when it considered Mr Ls application that ought reasonably have led to further checks being 
carried out. I think on balance those further checks would have shown that Mr L was in 
financial difficulties and that his income was not enough to clear his overdraft each month. I 
also think those checks would have shown Mr Ls outgoings were higher than Halifax 
calculated. Im satisfied that Halifax ought to have carried out further checks on this 
application which ought to have led to it to conclude the lending was unaffordable. And that 
Mr L would have difficulties repaying the borrowing, which is exactly what did then take 
place.
Putting things right
Mr L had the benefit of the money and should repay what he borrowed but Halifax should 
refund interest and charges which should be deducted from the outstanding balance. If there 
is a refund due to Mr L after that calculation, then Halifax should pay 8% simple interest per 
year on that amount. And if a refund is due to Mr L then any adverse information reported to 
the Credit Reference Agencies should be removed from Mr Ls credit file. Finally, if Halifax 
deducts any taxation due to any refund then Mr L should be provided with the usual 
certificate of taxation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax to refund interest and charges applied to Mr Ls account from its opening and follow 
the above direction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman