DRN-3228054
The complaint
Mr M complains AXA unfairly accepted he was liable for a motor vehicle collision. 
What happened
In December 2019 Mr M was involved in a collision with a third-party (a taxi) on a 
roundabout. He claimed on his AXA motor insurance policy. He said the driver of the taxi 
was at fault. The third-partys insurer didnt agree. AXA decided to settle the claim by 
accepting Mr M to be fully at fault. It told him it wouldnt be possible to defend the claim 
successfully if it went to court.  
Mr M complained that AXA had made an unfair decision. Its December 2020 complaint 
response said the available evidence supported him being at fault. It said the taxis 
passengers statement supported Mr M being responsible. AXA accepted its communication 
with him could have been better. It paid him some compensation in recognition. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with AXAs response. He wants it to accept it made the wrong 
decision, delete any records of him being at fault and pay him further compensation for 
trauma and distress he says hes experienced. Mr M feels AXA shouldnt have been 
influenced in its decision by two witness statements provided by the taxi driver and the 
passenger. 
Our investigator thought AXA had investigated the claim reasonably. He didnt think its 
decision to settle by accepting Mr M to be at fault was unfair or unreasonable. Mr M didnt 
accept that assessment. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require AXA to do anything differently. 
This service doesnt decide whos at fault for an incident. Thats the role of the courts.
Instead, we look at whether the insurer acted in line with the policy terms and made a fair
and reasonable decision. Mr Ms policy terms allow AXA to defend or settle any
claim on his behalf. That means it might make a decision he disagrees with, but the policy
allows it to do so. I can consider if its decision to do so was reasonable. And having done
so, I think it was.
AXAs explained why it accepted liability. In summary it said after reviewing the damage to 
both vehicles, the road layout, statements from both drivers and the one from an 
independent witness (the taxi passenger) it felt couldnt defend the claim successfully.  
AXAs of the opinion the third party had travelled three quarters round the round-about and 
was approaching the exit when the collision took place. It feels Mr M would be considered to 
have breached the highway code by not giving way. It didnt feel Mr Ms description of the 
third-party travelling too fast and not indicating would likely support his case. It concluded a 
judge would decide in the third partys favour.
I accept its possible Mr M wasnt at fault. But having considered everything, AXAs acted in 
line with the policy terms. I cant say its decision to accept liability was unfair or 
unreasonable. The taxi passengers account of the incident supports the third-party drivers 
version of events. Unfortunately for Mr M there isnt any CCTV evidence to support his 
account of what happened. 
Id like to reassure Mr M that Ive seen the descriptions of events given by the third-party 
driver and the passenger. Hes concerned this service hasnt been provided with the full 
versions. Hes highlighted the statements being handwritten and unsigned. So he feels AXA 
shouldnt rely on them.
I note his concern, but Im satisfied it was reasonable of AXA to take them into account. Ive 
no reason to suspect they werent provided by those named on the statements  or that they 
arent genuine.  I think its unlikely there would be a different outcome to the liability decision, 
or this complaint, if AXA had insisted on complete and signed versions of the statements. 
Mr M feels the two statements are contradictory. He says one describes damage to the front 
left bumper of the taxi  whilst the other says he struck that vehicles passenger side. I dont 
see any contradiction. Photos show damage to the left side bumper. They also show the car 
to be right-hand drive. So the passenger would have been sitting on the left side. 
I realise Mr Ms frustrated by AXAs liability decision, but I dont think it was an unfair or 
unreasonable.   
AXAs paid Mr M about £100 compensation for poor communication. I think that a fair 
amount to recognise the impact of any failure on AXAs behalf. So Im not going to require it 
to pay him any extra or do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman