DRN-2731358
The complaint
 Mr D complains that delays by ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) in its administration of his 
policies caused him financial loss 
What happened
Mr D said he contacted ReAssure in December 2019 informing them he wished to withdraw 
his three pensions as lump sums due to ongoing health issues. He asked for the forms on 2 
March 2020, but they didnt arrive, and he had to chase on 9 and 13 March before it became 
clear ReAssure had made an error in his email address. He immediately completed and 
returned the forms and during that time received a notification that the value of his policies 
had fallen by 10%. He complained that they shouldve protected him from this risk as they 
knew he wanted to take the money as a lump sum. Only one of the three sets of paperwork 
arrived by post. He had lost out by about £11,500 and felt ReAssure were liable for that loss. 
He wanted them to put him back in the position he wouldve been in based on the value on 2 
March 2020.
ReAssure said Mr D requested paperwork for a lump sum via email on 2 March 2020. It 
replied to say it would be received within an hour. Mr D chased on 9 March to say it had not 
arrived. This was emailed again. He chased again on 13 March. At this point ReAssure 
discovered it had added an extra letter into his email address meaning he hadnt received 
the paperwork. It apologised but didnt accept it had directly delayed his claim for benefits. If 
he didnt receive the papers within the hour, he couldve chased them but didnt. If theyd 
been made aware, they wouldve resent them immediately. It said it also issued the papers 
by post within its 10-working day turnaround time. It had now processed his request on all 
his policies. It said any policy valuation wasnt guaranteed and was based on unit prices at 
that time. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint. I said that before I could consider any award 
I first needed to decide if ReAssure did anything wrong. I thought it was clear it did. I said 
that because it accepted it made an error in Mr Ds email address which meant he didnt 
receive the forms he requested despite being chased several times.
As it is clear there was a mistake, I needed to consider whether an award for financial loss 
and distress and inconvenience.
An award for financial loss was intended to put Mr D back in the position he wouldve been in 
but for the mistake. That would mean that Mr D wouldve received the relevant forms by 
email when first requested on Monday 2 March 2020. Based on what happened when Mr D 
finally received the forms, he returned them quickly. I could see that they were finally sent 
through by email on Friday 13 March and were received on the next working day which was 
Monday 16 March. Mr D confirmed that he then received lump sums for one policy on Friday 
27 March and for the other two on Monday 30 March. In effect ignoring the day of receipt it 
took 9 working day for the policy ended 726 and 10 working days for him to receive the 
payment for the other two.
If I apply the same timescales to the original start date of 2 March, it would mean he 
wouldve signed and returned the forms on the same day, so they wouldve been received 
on Tuesday 3 March 2020. It would then take 9 working days for his largest policy (ending 
726) and 10 working days for the remaining policies to be received by him. That would mean 
that he wouldve received payment on 16 and 17 March. To enable this the funds mustve 
been disinvested before the dates of payment. ReAssure would need to confirm how much 
in advance of payment a fund is encashed and the value fixed.
ReAssure said they have a service standard for the number of days it takes to process 
requests, and this should be applied. But I didnt agree. I thought it was reasonable to apply 
the actual timescale it was achieving at the time if it was faster than the service standard, 
which it was in this case.
ReAssure also said that Mr D shouldve chased the forms when he didnt receive them. But I 
can see that he did but ReAssure had not realised it had made an error in his email address. 
Mr D said he tested this and found that use of the wrong email resulted in a rejection 
message to show that the email didnt work. Given this I might reasonably have expected 
ReAssure to have realised this and to have checked it, but it didnt.
ReAssure also said it put forms in the post. But I note it only did this for one of the policies 
and not for all three. In any event it had said it would email them. I didnt think sending one 
paper copy relieved it of its responsibility to do what it said it would which was to send them 
by email.
I also considered that Mr D had a duty to mitigate his loss. This would have been possible 
had he moved his funds into cash or a cash like fund when he first asked about taking lump 
sums. This would have meant he fixed the value of his pensions at that time and would miss 
any increase or decrease in value. But ReAssure has said that Mr D didnt have any online 
access to his pension policies. The documents I have seen show that he was invested in a 
fully managed fund and there was no information supplied to suggest that he could change 
his investments easily. ReAssure said he could have made this request by telephone and a 
deposit fund was available. But I note ReAssure didnt suggest he consider changing his 
investments to protect against movement in values. I note it was not giving financial advice 
so could not have advised him on any change, but it couldve suggested he asked his 
financial adviser whether this might be prudent. 
I have also considered that Mr D didnt think there would be any delay when he first made 
contact so had no reason to consider changing his investments. On balance therefore I 
didnt think it was reasonable to assume that he should have done this at the time.
I thought ReAssure should recalculate the lump sum payments as though they were paid in 
the above timescales.
I considered an award for distress and inconvenience. It was clear this had been upsetting 
for Mr M. He had to chase several times and during this time received a call to tell him his 
policies had dropped in value by more than 10%. I had listened to the calls. He was clearly 
shocked and wished to take his money before he feared it would all disappear. In the light of 
this I think an award is merited and a payment of £200 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I therefore proposed to uphold the compliant and direct ReAssure to: -
1) pay £200 for distress and inconvenience and 
2) recalculate the lump sum payments that wouldve been made on each policy on the assumption they had been encashed to allow payment of the policy ending 726 on 16 
March and 727 and 751 on 17 March 2020. If this shows that the amount paid to Mr 
D on 27 and 30 March was lower than it wouldve been on 16 and 17 March, it should 
pay Mr D the difference in payment for each policy where the actual payment was 
lower than it wouldve been.
Mr D said he accepted the decision. He was disappointed that the movement of his pension 
to protect the investment was new to him and he had no information available on that option.
ReAssure said it didnt agree. It said it was first contacted by Mr D on 2 March 2020 when he 
requested retirement forms. They were emailed the same day but to an incorrect email 
address. It said the forms would be received within the hour and it would have expected Mr 
D to chase if there were urgent, and to have chased before his next call on 9 March 2020. Its 
call centre staff tried to issue forms immediately if it could. Where that wasnt possible it had 
to be passed to the administration teams and these had a 10 day turnaround time. On that 
basis forms would have been issued by 16 March 20202. This was also the time when it was 
reacting to the demands of the COVID 19 pandemic and transitioning staff to remote 
working. It said it might be that the bounce back email was overlooked or not received by the 
individual that sent the email.
If Mr D had contacted it prior to 9 March 2020 it would have resent the forms. In any event 
when he did chase the forms were sent on 13 March within their 10 day service standard. 
The revised timeline presented in the provisional decision was shorter than their 10 day 
working standard which it thought was unfair given the impact of the pandemic. It felt this 
was unreasonable. It said the revised timeline also assumed next day delivery of post which 
wasnt guaranteed unless paid for. It felt no allowance had been made for the impact on the 
post. It said the decision was based on what was possible and not what was fair and 
reasonable. The decision didnt take into account the factors that were affecting every 
business including the Royal Mail.
It said this service should take into account the legal position, industry rules and standards 
and that is good practice. It did not think the provisional decision did this and was 
considerably in favour of Mr D.
It also provided evidence to show that the claim on the policy ending 726 had a valuation 
and payment date of 25 March and we know arrived in Mr Ds bank account on Friday 27 
March. The other two policies had valuation and payment dates of 26 March and arrived into 
Mr Ds bank account on Monday 30th March 2020. Based on what actually happened the 
valuation and payment date for the policy ended 726 should therefore be Thursday 12 March 
and Friday 13 March 2020 for the other two policies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ReAssure refers to its 10 day service standard but for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision I didnt think it was reasonable to apply this timescale where it was actually being 
exceeded based on the factual evidence in this case. For that reason, I thought it would be 
unfair and unreasonable for me to apply the timescale in the working standard.
ReAssure said the decision did not take into account the factors that were affecting the 
Royal Mail due to COVID19. But I dont agree. The documentation was being sent to Mr D 
by email not by post. Royal Mail performance could only have affected the return of the 
papers which Mr D posted back on Friday 13 March and which ReAssure confirmed were received by the next business day which was Monday 16 March. This shows that at that time 
there was no mail disruption to the service between Mr D and ReAssure. 
ReAssure also said there is an assumption of next day delivery of mail which isnt 
guaranteed unless paid for. However, the Royal Mail Quality Standard for first class post is 
that in excess of 90% of all first class mail will reach its destination the next day. Even during 
the pandemic and after Royal Mail lowered its Quality Standard slightly, published data 
shows it continued to deliver more than 90% of its first class mail the next day. Given this it 
seems more reasonable to assume that the form would, more likely than not, have been 
received the next day than to assume it would fall into the less than 10% of mail that would 
not have done so. That would seem unreasonable given the evidence that when the actual 
form was returned at a date later during the development of the pandemic it still arrived on 
the next working day. For that reason, I am of the view that a next working day arrival is a 
fair and reasonable assumption
In addition, it seems the earliest dates that people were directed to work from home was mid 
March 2020 and the full lockdown didnt start until 23 March 2020. Both dates, post date the 
events here in terms of receipt of emails and return of completed forms. I accept that COVID 
19 could have affected the processing of the forms and payment of the lump sums, but I 
have allowed for that by using the actual timescales taken to process each policy. That 
processing actually took place at dates that are later during the development of the 
pandemic and were more likely to start to show an impact. 
ReAssure also said that COVID was impacting it and it was dealing with arrangements to 
allow staff to work from home. But it seems they were coping as each time Mr D chased 
about the email they responded on the same day. For the reasons given I dont think there is 
any reasonable need to make a further allowance for the impact to assume worse 
performance than that which was happening at the time. 
Further my direction for loss allows for the actual time period required to process the lump 
sum payments which were at a time when the COVID19 government lockdowns were 
starting. So, I have already taken into account the actual impact on the business.
ReAssure argued the decision is based on what is possible not what is fair and reasonable 
but I dont agree. The decision is based on what actually happened in terms of timescales. 
This gives a firm factual basis for the assumed timeline of events. This is fair and reasonable 
to both parties to determine how to put Mr D back in the position he would have been in but 
for the mistake. This is what the law requires. 
I have considered that Mr D could have chased if he had not received the papers within the 
hour. I dont know why Mr D didnt chase again on the days he made contact, but Mr D did 
chase three times. But the fact Mr D may not have wanted the form urgently doesnt relieve 
ReAssure of the consequence of its mistake which is to put him back in the position he 
wouldve been in but for the mistake.
I also note that ReAssure didnt phone to check the email had got through, even after the 
second call, when it knew there was a problem. It took three chasing calls before it realised it 
had made a mistake when it might reasonable have checked for rejection messages the first 
time and certainly followed up to check after the second call. It had a duty to take reasonable 
care to ensure its records were accurate but didnt. 
In my provisional decision I also considered the issue of steps Mr D couldve taken to 
mitigate his loss but concluded that he couldnt reasonably have done so.
For the reasons given, I remain of the view that my proposed decision is fair and reasonable to both parties and puts Mr D back in the position he wouldve been in but for the mistake..
Putting things right
In the light of the further submission I think ReAssure should put things right on the basis 
proposed in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this compliant and direct ReAssure Limited to do the following within 30 days of this 
service notifying it that Mr D accepts my decision: -
1) pay Mr D £200 for distress and inconvenience and 
2) recalculate the lump sum payments that wouldve been made on each policy on the 
assumption they had valued and paid for the policy ended 726 on Thursday 12 March 
and for the other two policies Friday 13 March 2020. If this shows that the amounts 
actually paid to Mr D on 27 and 30 March for each policy was lower than it wouldve 
been for each policy if they were processed on 12 and 13 March, it should pay Mr D the 
difference in amount for each policy where the actual payment was lower than it 
wouldve been.
The payment should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional 
reduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Mr D hasnt yet 
taken any tax-free cash from his plans or based on the new amount hasnt taken all of the 
tax free cash he could have taken, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have 
been taxed according to his likely income tax rate at the date of payment which, based on 
the size of the sums taken from his pension, is likely to be 40%. So, ReAssure Limited 
should make a notional reduction of 15% if his income tax rate would be 20% and 30% if his 
income tax rate would have been 40% to adequately reflect this.
ReAssure must confirm to Mr D what amount has been deducted to reflect any tax that 
would have been payable at the time. 
If the calculations show that the amounts that wouldve been paid to Mr D are higher than 
the amounts actually paid so that he has suffered a loss, ReAssure must also pay interest at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple from the 12 or 13 March 2020 to the date of actual 
payments to Mr D on the amount of his loss.
If ReAssure believes it needs to deduct any income tax from the interest it must provide Mr 
D with any appropriate certificate of deduction.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman