DRN-2262673
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NVs handling 
of their request to cancel their life insurance policy. They were wrongly told they couldnt 
cancel the policy over the phone and werent aware they had to give 30 days notice. Mr and 
Mrs L also say Cigna didnt responded to all their points of complaint. 
What happened
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ls complaint but didnt uphold it. He noted that the 
terms and conditions of their policy said it could be cancelled by phone, and that there was 
no reference to the 30-day notice period. But as Cigna had corrected its mistake promptly, 
by allowing the cancellation to take place over the phone  and refunded their final premium, 
our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs L had suffered a financial loss. 
Our investigator recognised Mr and Mrs L wouldve been frustrated by Cignas mistakes. 
And put to some inconvenience in pursuing matters. But he didnt think these warranted a 
compensation payment. He also didnt consider it unreasonable that Cigna hadnt 
specifically addressed all of Mr and Mrs Ls points of complaint to their satisfaction. 
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with our investigator and so their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. They felt they did warrant compensation for the distress, 
inconvenience and frustration caused by Cignas mistakes. And said theyd spent one to two 
hours on the phone with Cigna. They also said that Cigna not fully replying to their complaint 
points or their request for compensation had added to their frustration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs L. But Id like to take some time to explain how 
Ive reached my decision.  Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Cigna accepts it made a mistake in wrongly telling Mr and Mrs L they couldnt cancel their 
policy over the phone. And its unfortunate they werent made aware of the 30-day notice 
period in the terms and conditions of their policy. But I agree with our investigator that 
Mr and Mrs L havent suffered a financial loss as a result. Cigna promptly rectified the 
situation and the policy was cancelled over the phone as requested. It also refunded the 
couples last premium of £10.30 in recognition of the poor customer service, as well as 
apologising. This all seems a fair response to me and what Id expect to see in similar cases. 
Mr and Mrs Ls main concern is theyve not been compensated for the frustration and 
inconvenience caused by Cignas mistakes. They make specific reference to the length and 
content of the phone conversation they had with Cigna. Ive not been able to listen to that 
call, and I dont dispute Mr and Mrs Ls account of what happened or their strength of feeling. 
But Mr and Mrs Ls policy was cancelled in line with their request without the need for 
repeated requests or correspondence and without them having to pay for their final months 
premium. So, I still maintain Cigna has done as Id expect.   
Cigna dealt with Mr and Mrs Ls complaint promptly, but I can see that not all the questions 
they raised were specifically addressed. Some of those questions concerned the 30-day 
notice period not appearing in their terms and conditions. Whilst I understand why Mr and 
Mrs L raised this, Cignas response focused on resolving the impact of its mistakes on them 
in particular  rather than wider policy making issues around its terms and conditions. So, I 
dont think Cignas silence on this matter is unreasonable. And I can see that Cigna assures 
Mr and Mrs L that feedback from their complaint, which Id assume to include the visibility of 
the 30-day notice period in their policy documentation - will be provided to the necessary 
teams. 
Of particular concern to Mr and Mrs L was Cignas handling of their request for 
compensation. Whilst Cigna didnt specifically talk about compensation for frustration and 
inconvenience, it did act to put things right, including the £10.30 mentioned above for poor 
customer service. So, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs L that Cigna completely ignored their 
request for compensation  rather it offered what it considered to be a suitable remedy to 
their specific complaint. 
Taking everything into account, I think Cignas prompt action to rectify its mistake, together 
with its apologies and the premium refund are a fair and reasonable response to 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. So, I wont be asking Cigna to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman