DRN-3394361
The complaint
Mr D has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) increased the renewal premium for 
his buildings insurance policy having considered his property to be at risk of flooding.
What happened
Mr D had a buildings and contents insurance policy with AXA for several years. In 2021, he 
received a policy renewal quote which was significantly higher than his previous policies. He 
had paid just over £200 in 2019 and was then supplied with a quote for nearly £1,100 in 
2021. Mr D complained. He didnt renew his policy with AXA and found a much cheaper 
policy elsewhere but considered this to be a matter of principle and wanted to prevent other 
individuals from being ripped off. AXA didnt uphold his complaint, stating that there was a 
greater risk of flooding than in previous years and that the premium increase was correct. 
Mr D complained to our service however our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. She 
stated that it was our services role to put the customer back in the position he would have 
been in had there been a financial loss. As Mr D took out cheaper insurance elsewhere, she 
didnt think that hed lost out financially. She thought that AXA had treated Mr D fairly, as it 
had assessed risk using its risk criteria and set the premiums based on these. She didnt 
think AXA had done anything wrong by offering a significantly higher quote at renewal on 
this basis. She noted that AXA provided a map showing a high risk of surface water flooding.
Mr D was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint and the matter has been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether AXA acted in a fair and reasonable manner in 
providing its 2021 insurance quote for Mr D. I consider that it did, and Ill explain why.
AXA considered that Mr Ds property was at greater risk of flooding in 2021 than in previous 
years and this resulted in the large increase in premium. It confirmed that; we now consider 
it to be vulnerable to surface water flooding. We are seeing a rise in the number of properties 
at risk from surface water flooding. This is due to a combination of heavier rainfall, poor or 
insufficient drainage, and an increase in green spaces being lost or paved over for parking.
Due to its on-going assessment of flood risk, AXA confirmed that it provided its quote 
through the Flood Re scheme. It said that the significantly higher premium was due to the 
assessed risk from flooding and that there was also a slight increase due to a 2020 claim Mr 
D made on his policy. It explained that the rating structure used more factors than its 
previous product to calculate risk and each factor was independently modelled. AXA 
accepted that other insurers may take a different stance and offer cheaper cover, and that 
insurance ratings varied depending on the factors used and how a particular risk was rated.
I now turn to Mr Ds arguments in support of his complaint. Mr Ds main argument is that 
AXAs quote for 2021 was unreasonable. He said that AXA had changed its explanation for 
it. Mr D also stated that the Environment Agency stated that he lived in a low-risk flood area. 
He thought that premium increase was to increase profits. He noted that his subsequent 
insurance was also underwritten by AXA. He commented that two different approaches can 
lead to very different results; The former claims that I live in a flood risk area and must pay 
the extra 303%, the latter says I do not live in a flood risk area. He also noted; It seems that 
different underwriters have their own register of what is or is not a flood area based upon 
their company experiences (but do not tell the customers or sellers of their products about 
this)  
In terms of flood risk to his property, Mr D said that nothing had changed over the years. He 
thought that AXA should assess which properties actually flood, instead of treating all 
properties in the same way. Mr D provided his in-depth local knowledge of the area and of 
flood attenuation measures which benefited his property and the area. In summary, Mr D 
thought that levels of risk used by AXA lacked accuracy, professionalism and sensitivity and 
that AXAs had no reason, explanation, or expression of regret for the increase.
Ive carefully considered what Mr D and AXA have to say on this matter. Mr D clearly feels 
very strongly that the premium increase was unreasonable, and that AXA should have 
provided a clearer explanation as to how it decided upon flood risk criteria and premiums. I 
can understand that a large increase in premium and having his property classed as being at 
risk of flooding will have caused upset to Mr D.
I also acknowledge that Mr D has a different view on flood risk for his own property to that of 
AXA and hed wondered whether he needed to insure it for flood risk at all. He thinks that 
people shouldnt be penalised if flooding has never occurred within, say, 50 metres of their 
homes. I also note Mr Ds view that flood areas are a figment of creation by insurers. 
Unfortunately, its not however within the remit of this service to determine whether a 
particular property is or is not at risk of flooding, and I can only decide whether I think that 
AXA has applied its own criteria and modelling in a fair, reasonable and consistent manner. I 
consider that it has for the following reasons.
AXA has explained that the increase was due to the change in its assessment of flood risk. It 
said that reference to the Flood Re initiative meant that all customers would be quoted a 
fixed premium based on their council tax band and there was no control over this aspect. 
AXA also provided evidence as to how the premium was calculated, including systems 
information, underwriting, and mapping information. 
Im satisfied that its standard practice for insurers to rely on automated systems to combine 
a large amount of data, using complex algorithms to model risk and this is particularly true 
for flood risk. Its also the case that insurers are entitled to decide what factors to take into 
account and how much weight to place on each factor. I appreciate that this can lead to 
starkly different results, both in terms of whether cover is offered but also in terms of the 
premium quoted. Insurers also regularly update how they rate risks and their rates 
continually change. So, in a changing environment, they may take very different approaches 
as to risk. Bearing this in mind, and having considered all the evidence, I cant say that AXA 
applied its criteria, or conducted its modelling here in an unfair or unreasonable manner and 
Ive seen no evidence to show that its treated Mr Ds case less favourably than others. 
In conclusion, as an insurance policy is a product, the insurer ultimately has a choice as to 
the risks it is, or is not, willing to insure and at what premiums. Conversely, the customer has 
a choice as to whether to purchase a particular policy. I cant say that the premium was 
calculated incorrectly according to the insurers approach or that the information supplied by 
the broker was misleading. I consider that Mr D was able to make an informed decision not to proceed with the AXA policy. Mr D was able to secure a policy at a lower premium, so 
hasnt been disadvantaged. In conclusion I cant say that AXA has treated Mr D unfairly or 
unreasonably.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr D, however Im 
satisfied that this represents a fair outcome to this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint and I dont require AXA 
Insurance UK Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman