DRN-2888955
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, increased his arranged 
overdraft on his current account several times. He believes these increases were 
unaffordable and should not have been granted.  
What happened
Mr H holds a current account with Halifax. It initially did not have an arranged overdraft 
facility.
Between November 2015 and April 2016 Mr H made several applications online to take out 
and then increase the level of an arranged overdraft. The majority of these applications were 
accepted by Halifax and the agreed overdraft level increased as follows;
From £0 to £500 on 30 November 2015
To £750 on 26 January 2016
To £1,500 on 16 February 2016
Then to £2,500 also on 16 February 2016
To £3,000 on 18 March 2016
To £4,500 on 1 April 2016
Finally, to £5,000 on 29 April 2016
Mr H has continued to use his current account, and the overdraft facility, since then.
In April 2020 Mr H complained to Halifax. He said that the overdraft and subsequent 
increases to it should not have been allowed. He said that if Halifax had done proper checks 
at the time it wouldve seen that he had a lot of unsecured borrowing and that he was 
making regular gambling transactions. He explained that the borrowing was unaffordable 
and so he asked Halifax to refund all interest and charges hed paid in respect of it.
Halifax said it didnt think the overdraft increases were unaffordable at the time they were 
granted. It said it was unaware that Mr H was making regular gambling transactions  and 
this isnt something it would usually check unless he made them aware of a problem, as it 
doesnt interfere with how its customers use their money. It also didnt think the frequency of 
the requests gave cause for concern. So, it didnt think it had done anything wrong.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I was inclined to partially uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining why I thought this.
Business are required to make sure that, where they agree to lend, they do so responsibly. 
How they go about determining this is a matter of their own judgement  as there arent set 
requirements of what a business must do in every instance. But generally, it is expected that 
they will carry out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused checks, taking account of 
the applicants financial situation, before lending.
Halifax has said that Mr H applied for each increase to his arranged overdraft online, so 
didnt speak to a member of staff or take advice. It has said that, as a result, all of the 
applications were considered in the same way  by an automated system taking into account 
the information Mr H had provided about his income and expenditure and credit scoring 
information based on how his accounts with Halifax had been run and information from credit 
reference agencies. And this wouldnt include a review of how he spent his money.
I think in respect of the first three lending decision  to grant a £500 overdraft in November 
2015, increase this £750 in January 2016 and then to £1,500 in February 2016  these 
checks were appropriate and sufficient. Income and expenditure were reviewed to asses 
affordability  and this was information provided by Mr H so was specific to him. And Halifax 
has said information from credit reference agencies and the conduct of the accounts Mr H 
held with it were considered. I think this wouldve provided a reasonable illustration of Mr Hs 
financial position in order to assess if the lending was affordable.
Mr H has said he had a lot of borrowing elsewhere. But already having borrowing does not 
automatically mean further lending is irresponsible. I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Mr H had missed or was behind with payments on any of the borrowing outstanding at that 
time. Or that this made the new borrowing unaffordable.
Mr H has also said he was regularly gambling. But that alone doesnt make the decision to 
lend irresponsible. Id also point out that information from credit reference agencies wouldnt 
have illustrated this. And Mr Hs current account statements indicate that, while he had 
gambled previously  notably between June and August 2015  there dont appear to be any 
recent instances around the time of these lending decisions.
So overall, given the level and nature of the borrowing requested, I think Halifax did 
appropriate checks and acted reasonably when making these lending decisions.
But Im not sure that the same checks went far enough for the applications made after that 
point. While the same information was looked at  income and expenditure details Mr H 
provided and credit scoring data  the situation and circumstances were not, in my view, the 
same.
On 16 February, Mr H applied to increase his overdraft limit from £1,500 to £2,500  which 
was accepted by Halifax. This was having already increased this limit from £750 to £1,500 
on the same day. And this was the fifth request to increase the level of borrowing through 
the overdraft in the space of three months (as in addition to the three previous approved 
applications Halifax rejected a request from Mr H for an overdraft of £1,000 in early 
November 2015).
I think the frequency of the requests at that stage shouldve led to additional checking and 
scrutiny from Halifax. Halifax has indicated this isnt how its systems work, but Im not 
commenting on the processes Halifax chooses to use. Im simply looking at whether, on a 
fair and reasonable basis I think it did enough to check that the lending decisions were 
appropriate. And as Ive said, for the second increase on 16 February 2016 and the requests 
after that, I dont think it did as I think the frequency of the requests being made shouldve 
prompted further analysis of the requests  including looking at how the account was being 
run, through the statements, which Halifax had access to. And this shouldve included, in my 
view, looking at what the money was being used for. Halifax has said it doesnt generally 
look at how customers spend their money, but I think it wouldve been reasonable to do so 
here, given the frequency of the requests being made. And the rules set by the regulator do 
say that lenders should have regard for information they are aware of which might indicate 
someone is vulnerable, before lending.
Ive gone on to think about whether the lending would still have been made available to 
Mr H, if further checks had been carried out  if it was still responsible of Halifax to have lent.I think, even with additional, more appropriate checks, the overdraft limit increase to £2,500 
on 16 February 2016 would still have been agreed. The information provided around income, 
which was supported by the income being received to the current account, and expenditure 
does suggest Mr H had disposable income available. In addition, the current account had not 
exceeded the agreed overdraft limits in the six months prior to this request  which I think 
shows that the account was manageable. There is nothing to suggest that Mr H had missed 
payments on any of the other borrowing that he had, and no new borrowing seems to have 
been taken elsewhere at that time. And there had been no spending on the current account
 information available to Halifax - at that point that I think shouldve caused concern, as 
again there appears to have been little, if any gambling, since August 2015. So, I think the 
decision to approve this lending was reasonable.
I also think, for largely the same reasons, that even with additional checks being done, the 
request to increase the overdraft to £3,000 on 18 March 2016 wouldve been deemed 
affordable. And I would also consider this reasonable. The situation was largely the same as 
at the 16 February 2016 increase. But I can see that between 17 and 18 February 2016  
shortly after the previous increase, Mr H had carried out a number of gambling transactions. 
But the account had remained within the agreed overdraft limit and indeed the transactions, 
while for quite a large sum, had not taken the account to its limit. Crucially also, as they 
seem to be the first significant gambling transactions since August 2015, there was no 
indication at that stage, in my opinion, that this was a pattern of behaviour  increasing the 
overdraft and then gambling. And, given gambling isnt prohibited, I dont think Halifaxs 
decision to allow this overdraft extension was unreasonable.
But I dont think the same applied to the decision to increase the overdraft to £4,500 on
1 April 2016. This was an increase of 50% on top of the overdraft lending, that had only been 
agreed within the past several months. And the request came within a couple of weeks of 
the previous increase. I think this shouldve potentially triggered further questions around the 
reasons for, and the sustainability of the borrowing.
I accept that the account had not exceeded its limit. And again, there is nothing to indicate 
that additional borrowing had been taken elsewhere. But I can see that, since the increase in 
March, there had been further gambling on the current account. Again, this hadnt taken the 
account over its limit. And the amounts were less than in February 2016. But a second 
occurrence of gambling transactions, for what were quite significant sums, not long after the 
amount of lending available had been increased would in my view have been an indicator of 
a potential problem.
The amount of time the overdraft had been used for, and the level of indebtedness had also 
increased since the previous increase  indicating a greater reliance on the borrowing and 
that Mr H was potentially finding it more difficult to clear this. And I think this again potentially 
indicates issues with the sustainability of the borrowing.
With this in mind, I think, if Halifax had done more in-depth checks, which I think wouldve 
been appropriate, before agreeing to increase the overdraft limit to £4,500, it wouldve 
decided that it was not appropriate to allow this lending. And so, I dont think it acted 
responsibly by allowing this increase.I also think the decision to allow the overdraft limit to increase to £5,000 at the end of April 
2016 was not responsible. Again, I think further checks shouldve been carried out. Not only 
because of the frequency of the previous applications but also here because I can see that 
Mr H actually requested increases on three occasions on 5 and 6 April  all of which were 
declined. The income information then provided when the increase was approved at the end 
of April 2016, was higher than in those declined applications  raising questions about 
whether it was correct. And looking at the account statements it doesnt appear to be so. 
These anomalies should in my view have meant the application was scrutinised further.
And if it had been, I dont think Halifax wouldve granted the increase. I say this because, in 
addition to the issues with the income Ive mentioned, I can see that there had been further 
significant levels of gambling since the overdraft increase at the start of April 2016. I think at 
that stage it wouldve been clear that a pattern of behaviour was emerging and that the new 
borrowing was being used for gambling. And I think Halifax shouldve been aware from this, 
that the borrowing appeared to be potentially unsustainable and shouldnt be extended.
So overall, I think there have been errors here by Halifax. I think the checks it carried out in 
relation to the borrowing granted to Mr H in some instances didnt go far enough. And if 
further checks had been carried out, I think some of the borrowing wouldve been deemed 
unsuitable and Halifax would not have provided it  specifically the extensions of the 
overdraft from £3,000 to £5,000. So, I think Halifax needs to do something to put things right.
Mr H has had the use of the borrowing provided under the overdraft. So, I dont think itd be 
reasonable to say that the principal amount borrowed should be refunded.
And as I think the decision to provide the overdraft up to the level of £3,000 was reasonable, 
I dont think Halifax has done anything wrong by applying charges and interest to that 
amount, in line with the terms of the current account.
But in terms of the borrowing through the overdraft above £3,000 I dont think Halifax 
shouldve allowed this. And if it hadnt, this borrowing wouldnt have incurred any costs. So, 
to put things right, I think itd be fair for Halifax to rework the account and refund all charges 
and interest applied to any outstanding balances above £3,000 since March 2016. I think itd 
be reasonable for this amount to be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the account. 
In the event that this cleared the balance in full and there was a residual amount leftover, I 
think this should then be refunded to Mr H.
I understand Mr H is currently experiencing financial difficulties and that the account has 
been suspended, and defaulted, with interest and charges stopped. I think this action was 
reasonable by Halifax. And I note it will prevent further interest being applied to the amount 
that was let incorrectly.
In terms of the information recorded on Mr Hs credit file about this account, I dont think it is 
wrong that the account be reported to credit reference agencies. And I note, although some 
of the borrowing should not in my view have been granted, the first £3,000 of the overdraft 
was in my view lent responsibly. Looking at the account statements it seems that the 
account has been overdrawn for a significant period of time. So, I think its likely, based on 
what Ive seen, even without the borrowing above £3,000 the account wouldve always 
reached a position of default at this stage. So, I dont think Halifax needs to remove any of 
the adverse information recorded in respect of the current account from Mr Hs credit file as I 
think its likely this would always have come about even without the errors made.Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
Mr H said he accepted my provisional findings.
Halifax did not respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party has provided anything further for me to consider, I see 
no reason to depart from my provisional findings. So, for the same reasons given in those 
findings, and summarised above, I think the decisions by Halifax to grant overdraft increases 
up to a level of £3,000 were reasonable. But I dont think it did sufficient checks in respect of 
the lending granted beyond this and I dont think it wouldve granted that further lending if it 
had carried out appropriate checks. So, I dont think it lent responsibly.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
To put things right Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, should refund all interest, 
charges or fees applied to Mr Hs current account in respect of borrowing through the 
overdraft above £3,000 from March 2016 onwards. This should be used to reduce the 
outstanding balance on the account in the first instance.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman