DRN-4381737
The complaint
M, a limited company complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) unfairly 
blocked its account.
M is being represented by its director, Mr A. 
What happened
M has a business account with APS.
In August  2022, APS decided to review Ms account as part of its Know Your Business 
(KYB) process. APS wrote to Mr A, asking him to provide information about his business, 
including invoices relating to cash payments, the business model, proof of his identification 
and his address. APS also asked Mr A to provide information about whether M was VAT 
registered. Whilst it completed its review and waited for Mr A to provide the information APS 
blocked Ms account.
In response Mr A sent APS some information relating to his identification and address. APS 
looked at the information and said it wasnt sufficient. So, it asked Mr A to send in the 
information it had previously requested about the cash payments, VAT and Ms business. 
Throughout August and September 2022, APS chased Mr A to provide the outstanding 
information. But he didnt do so. 
In September 2022, APS decided to close Ms account. It wrote to Mr A giving him 60 days 
notice that he would need to make alternative banking arrangements for M. Mr A rang APS 
and said he would provide the outstanding information. APS said that it would postpone the 
closure of the account and look at anything Mr A was able to provide. However, it said Ms 
account would remain blocked until Mr A was able to satisfy APSs KYB process. APS wrote 
to Mr A setting out clearly what he needed to provide.
Unhappy with this response, Mr A brought Ms complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened.  Mr A said that hed provided APS with 
everything theyd asked for and explained that M was soon to be VAT registered. So, he said 
APS were wrong to continue to block Ms account. After reviewing everything the 
investigator said that APS hadnt done anything wrong when it had blocked Ms account and 
didnt uphold the complaint 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review Ms complaint. So, the matter has 
come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for APSs review of Ms account. APS has extensive 
legal and regulatory responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to 
customers. Banks and financial businesses in the UK are also required by law to comply with 
Know Your Customer (KYC) requirements. In order to fulfil these obligations, they may need 
to review activity taking place on accounts and ask customers for information to establish the 
purpose and nature of a business as well as the origin of funds  its entitled and obliged to 
carry out such checks. 
This applies to both new and existing customers regardless of how many years a customer 
may have banked with APS. The terms of Ms account also permit APS to review an 
account, ask for information. 
The information APS asked M to provide is fairly standard information that banks, and other 
financial businesses are required to have in order to adhere to the Know Your Customer 
(KYC) responsibilities (also known as Customer Due Diligence or CDD and Know Your 
Business KYB), as set out by the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority. So, in the 
circumstances, given that APS needed the information to comply with its regulatory 
obligations, I dont think APSs requests for Mr A to provide up-to-date information about his 
business, the nature of his business, and invoices for specific transactions is unfair or 
unreasonable.
I can see that APS initially asked Mr A for information in early August  2022. It followed up this 
request on several occasions throughout August and September 2022, which included telling 
Mr A exactly what he needed to provide and why the information hed already submitted 
wasnt enough to satisfy its KYC process. It also explained to him that if he failed to do so it 
may close Ms account.
I appreciate that Mr A has supplied APS with a number of documents on at least two 
separate occasions. And that not having access to the funds held in his blocked account has 
made things difficult for M. But I can also see that APS has told Mr A what he needs to 
provide in order for the block to be removed on several occasion. APS has also confirmed 
that the documents provided by Mr A to date arent acceptable. Having looked at the 
documents I dont think thats unreasonable. So, its up to Mr A to now provide the 
information necessary in order for APS to remove the block on Ms account.
As Ive said above APS are obliged under its legal and regulatory obligations to carry out 
ongoing KYC checks to protect accounts from identify theft, fraud, and financial crime. So, if 
they dont receive the necessary information that they request to allay those risks, I do not 
consider APS continuing to block Ms account is a disproportionate measure for APS to take. 
I realise this will be disappointing to M, but Im satisfied that Mr A been provided with a 
number of opportunities by APS to provide the information it needed. And to date he hasnt 
done so. 
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened. So, I realise he will 
be disappointed by my decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say 
APS have acted unreasonably and treated M unfairly in taking the actions it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman