DRN-3958527
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited have wrongly 
refused to cover their legal costs of pursuing a claim against their neighbours for trespass, 
nuisance and property damage.
Mr A and Mrs A are represented in bringing their complaint. Where I refer to Mr A and Mrs A, 
I include their representative.
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A had legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover with DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited (DAS) as part of their home insurance policy. 
In October 2019 they made a claim for cover to pursue a claim against their neighbours for 
trespass, nuisance and property damage. DAS confirmed their claim was covered subject to 
review by their panel solicitors and if, amongst other things, the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. The solicitors said in July 2020 that Mr A and Mrs As claim didnt 
have reasonable prospects of success. And they said their claim couldnt go ahead under 
the LEI policy.
Mr A and Mrs A brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in September 
2021. They were unhappy with the advice the solicitors had given. And they wanted DAS to 
provide them with the full amount of legal costs the policy covered so they could pursue their 
claim against the neighbour.
Our investigator said the policy didnt provide cover where a claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success. DAS were entitled to rely on the solicitors advice about that. But Mr A 
could ask DAS to reconsider their position if he got his own legal advice. Since Mr A didnt 
agree, his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the distress Mr A and Mrs A have suffered due to the actions of their 
neighbours. And I acknowledge their strength of feeling about their complaint. But, as Ill 
explain, I dont think DAS have treated them unfairly.
Id expect DAS to have considered Mr A and Mrs As insurance claim fairly and promptly, 
and not to have declined it unreasonably. 
I can see DAS promptly reviewed their claim, referred it to panel solicitors in line with the 
terms and conditions of the LEI policy and explained the process that would follow. They 
explained clearly there was cover under the policy subject to the panel solicitors reviewing 
things and Mr A and Mrs As claim against the neighbours having reasonable prospects of 
success. So, I think they dealt with it fairly. And, as Ill explain, I dont think the claim was 
declined unreasonably.
Under the LEI policy, DAS agreed to pay Mr A and Mrs As reasonable and necessary legal 
costs up to a limit of £50,000 in relation to Property protection. That included disputes 
relating to their home where someone had caused damage to it or was guilty of a legal 
nuisance or trespass. However, this was subject to the policy terms and conditions. It didnt 
mean that Mr A and Mrs As legal costs would be covered in all circumstances. 
It was a condition of the policy cover that Mr A and Mrs As claim against the neighbour must 
have reasonable prospects of success. That meant the prospects of recovering damages or 
another legal remedy had to be at least 51% for the duration of the claim. 
This is a common condition in LEI policies, and we dont consider it to be unfair. If someone 
pursues a case thats likely to fail, they run the risk of having to pay not only their own costs, 
but also those of the other side. We dont think a private individual is likely to take that risk. 
And we dont expect an insurer to either.
DASs panel solicitors advised in July 2020 that they didnt consider the claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. I appreciate Mr A and Mrs A dont agree with what the 
solicitors said and were unhappy they wouldnt take their case forward. I dont have the 
power to look into that. I can only consider their complaint about DAS. The solicitors were a 
separate, independent firm regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). Any 
complaint about what the solicitors said or did has be made to the Legal Ombudsman 
Service.
I understand DAS didnt receive the solicitors advice. The solicitors seem to have withdrawn 
cover acting on their delegated authority from DAS. If DAS had seen their advice I think it 
would have been reasonable for them to have relied on it in coming to a decision to withdraw 
cover. Thats because the solicitors had appropriate skill and expertise to look into the case; 
theres nothing obviously wrong with the advice they gave that Id expect DAS, as non-
lawyers, to have picked up on; and the advice says clearly the claims didnt have reasonable 
prospects of success - so the policy condition wasnt met. 
Mr A and Mrs A have sent us additional documentation to support their legal claim. I 
empathise with their difficult circumstances. But I cant decide if the information theyve 
provided helps their case. Theyd need to take legal advice on that - at their own expense. If 
they had independent advice from a suitably qualified solicitor that supported their claim, Id 
expect DAS to consider the claim further. 
But, as things stand, I dont think DAS have treated Mr A and Mrs A unreasonably or unfairly 
in dealing with their claim or that it was declined unreasonably. So, whilst I understand Mr A 
and Mrs A will be disappointed, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman