DRN-3805529
The complaint
Mr C complains about the decision by Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) to turn down 
his income protection claim. 
What happened
Mr C is covered under his employers group income protection scheme. The aim of the 
scheme is to pay income in the event Mr C is unable to work in his own occupation, or 
another occupation to which he is suited by way of education, training or experience. The 
scheme has a 13-week deferred period. 
Mr C stopped work (in his role abroad) due to a skin infection in his leg. A claim was made to 
Generali, but this was refused because Generali thought Mr C could carry out a suited 
occupation within the deferred period. Unhappy with this, Mr C brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator ultimately didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the 
available evidence supported Generalis view that Mr C could have carried out a suited 
occupation. 
Mr C didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The scheme will pay benefit if the following definition of incapacity is met:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, or any occupation to which they are suited by 
education, training or experience, and they are not carrying out any other Work or 
occupation.
Although Generali initially made an error with the deferred period, it is now accepted that a 
13-week deferred period applied. That means Mr C would need to demonstrate that the 
above definition applied throughout the whole deferred period, which was 9 June 2021 to 8 
September 2021.
Mr C says that when he was off work, he was in extreme pain with his leg elevated. He also 
says that he couldnt stand for long periods, or walk any distance without increased swelling, 
heightened pain and leakage from the wound. His dressing also needed to be changed 
regularly.
Ive looked at Mr Cs medical records in order to see how the infection impacted him. 
Mr C returned to the UK from his role abroad in June 2021. It was noted on 11 June 2021 
that Mr Cs wound was looking much better (based on photos hed taken of it previously), 
and it had a pink surround with no infection. He was advised to elevate his leg and return the 
following week. Mr C then returned regularly to his GP surgery to have the dressings 
changed. Throughout June 2021, his wound seemed to be improving.
In July 2021, Mr C still needed his dressings changed. On 9 July 2021, Mr C advised that he 
was going on holiday the following week, so it was arranged for him to seen for a follow-up 
the week after. He returned to the GP surgery on 19 July 2021, and still required regular 
changes of his dressing after that. 
By 3 August 2021, Mr Cs wound showed significant improvement. On 9 August 2021, it was 
noted that the wound had healed, but was still fragile so he was advised to still keep it 
covered for a few days.
Mr C accepts that the infection had healed in August 2021, and he says he was approved to 
go back to work. The only reason Mr C didnt return to work at that time was because he 
works abroad, and he was required to stay in a hotel for quarantine purposes (due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic) before leaving the UK. 
Then on 2 September 2021, whilst staying in the hotel, Mr C developed a further infection in 
the same area. On 7 September 2021, Mr C said the wound was more like a blood blister, 
and he decided to attend A&E the same day. He was described as having a visible lump, 
with a break in the skin measuring 1-2cm. He denied feeling unwell or fevered. Mr C was 
given antibiotics and continued to have the dressings changed regularly. On 1 October 2021, 
there was a definite improvement in the wound observed. By 15 October 2021, the wound 
was described as virtually healed. 
On 27 October 2021, Mr C was assessed by an occupational health physician. She said his 
first infection had completely healed, and the second infection had healed but was still warm 
and firm to touch and that Mr C reported mild tenderness. She thought Mr C should remain 
off from his normal role for several more weeks due to his occupation being manual and in a 
warm climate. However, she thought he would be fit to work in a sedentary role within the 
UK.
I understand that Mr C met with the occupational health physician on 15 December 2021, 
and she concluded he could return to his normal role. 
Although Mr C was well enough to return to work (after the first infection healed) before the 
end of the deferred period on 8 September 2021, the scheme terms say:
Generali may link periods of absencecaused by the same illness or injury, for the 
purposes of completing the Deferred Period. Where:
the Member suffers separate periods of Incapacity from the same cause each lasting 
at least 14 consecutive days, and
the total time that has passed since the first period commenced is no more than 12 
months.
I accept that Mr C couldnt do his normal occupation (as this was a very physical role) 
between stopping work on 9 June 2021 up to early August 2021 due to his first infection. 
Then again from 2 September 2021 until December 2021 due to his second infection. 
However, I dont think the medical evidence supports that Mr Cs infections prevented him 
from carrying out a sedentary occupation for an entire 13 weeks. Ill explain why.I appreciate Mr Cs explanation that he was in a lot of pain when he stopped work initially, 
and had been advised to keep his leg elevated from 9 June 2021. However, it seems that he 
had recovered sufficiently by mid-July 2021 to be able to go on holiday. Other than Mr C 
needing to have his dressings changed regularly, the medical evidence from the time doesnt 
indicate that Mr C was impacted in any other way. 
On 27 October 2021, the occupational health physician thought Mr C was fit to work in a 
sedentary occupation. Though I note the infection that had started on 2 September 2021 had 
healed by 15 October 2021.
Mr C has provided a letter from his GP which says that he was signed off from 11 June 2021 
until 6 October 2021, and that this was due to a significant infection which was very painful, 
required regular dressing and elevation of the leg and made it difficult to mobilise. The GP 
said Mr C was signed off for any work, and not just his role at the time. 
Im minded to agree with our investigator that, whilst this evidence supports that Mr C would 
be prevented from carrying out his manual role, it doesnt explain why he couldnt carry out a 
sedentary role which would have allowed him to elevate his leg. The evidence also doesnt 
acknowledge that Mr C had two infections, and had completely recovered from the first one 
in August 2021. We also know that Mr C was able to mobilise sufficiently to be able to go on 
holiday in July 2021. 
Mr C also provided a second letter from his GP. This said that Mr Cs leg infection was so 
severe that it needed to be incised and drained in hospital and left open to heal. They said 
his open wound needed to be dressed frequently and had to be elevated to avoid the spread 
of infection. He needed to be on strong antibiotics and painkillers due to the infection and 
wound, and this would make working in any capacity very difficult as the level of pain would 
affect his focus and concentration. The GP thought Mr C was not fit for physical or sedentary 
work during the time he was signed off. 
I understand the GP is referring to Mr Cs decision to attend A&E on 7 September 2021 to 
have the wound incised and drained. I see that on 10 September 2021 the wound was still 
very painful, but over the next few weeks his wound improved and there was no further 
reference to him finding it painful. Although the GP has referred to Mr C being on strong 
painkillers, Generali makes a reasonable point that he wasnt prescribed any painkillers and 
so it seems the GP is referring to Mr C taking over-the-counter medication. However, theres 
no reference in Mr Cs GP records to his cognitive function being impacted by this. 
On balance, I think greater weight should be given to the medical records at the time. Whilst 
I accept this evidence supports that Mr C couldnt carry out his normal occupation for the 
deferred period, it doesnt support that Mr Cs infections were so severe that they prevented 
him from carrying out a sedentary occupation for the whole 13 weeks.
Generali has referred to a number of sedentary roles that it thinks Mr Cs training, education 
and experience would allow him to do  such as data entry, administration, call centre 
representative and management, as well as CCTV operator. Generali has provided detailed 
reasoning for considering that Mr C could carry out the role of CCTV operator, based on his 
transferable skills. 
Im satisfied that Generali has provided sufficient reasoning for concluding that Mr C could 
carry out an occupation to which he was suited by way of education, training and experience 
within the 13 weeks deferred period. Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint Mr C, I 
find that it was reasonable for Generali to turn down the claim.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman