DRN-4352341
The complaint
Miss T complains about the way Vitality Health Limited handled a claim she made on a 
personal private medical insurance policy.
Miss Ts represented by Mr W.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Miss T was insured under a personal private medical insurance policy. Cover under the 
policy began on 5 September 2022 and the policy was taken out on a moratorium basis.
In February 2023, Miss T got in touch with Vitality to make a claim on her policy for neck and 
other pain. Shed spoken with Vitalitys virtual GP, who felt Miss T needed physiotherapy. 
Miss T started having physiotherapy treatment.
However, when Vitality considered Miss Ts claim, it noted that the GP had stated that Miss 
Ts symptoms pre-dated the start date of the policy. So it thought Miss Ts symptoms were a 
pre-existing condition and therefore, specifically excluded under the terms of the moratorium. 
It turned down Miss Ts claim.
Miss T provided further information to Vitality, which showed the start date of her symptoms 
had been around a month after the policy began. And Miss Ts GP sent a letter in mid-late 
March 2023 which also stated that Miss Ts symptoms had begun at the end of September 
2022.
In late April 2023, Vitality asked for further information from Miss Ts GP. And it had also 
asked for more information from the virtual GP. In mid-June 2023, Vitality was in a position 
to reassess and accept Miss Ts claim.
Mr W was very unhappy with Vitalitys handling of the claim. Hed made a number of calls 
chasing up Vitalitys response and he was unhappy with the delays in Vitalitys decision-
making. He said Miss T had been left in pain and that that her condition had declined back to 
her pre-treatment level.
Vitality acknowledged thered been delays in its handling of Miss Ts claim and that shed 
been caused trouble and upset. So it offered to pay Miss T £150 compensation and to send 
her flowers.
Mr W didnt accept Vitalitys offer and he asked us to look into Miss Ts complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Vitalitys offer of compensation was enough to put things right. 
So he recommended that it should pay Miss T a total of £250 compensation.
Vitality disagreed. It considered that the investigator was punishing it for the actions of the 
virtual GP  a third party company. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Vitality should pay Miss T a total of £250 compensation 
and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
In this case, Vitality initially agreed to cover Miss Ts physiotherapy. However, it received 
information from the virtual GP which indicated that Miss Ts symptoms began before the 
policy was taken out, which would mean that it fell within the scope of the moratorium 
clause. I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to conclude, at that point, that based on 
the available medical evidence, the claim wasnt covered.
As Miss T disputed that her symptoms had begun before the policy started, I think it was 
reasonable and appropriate for Vitality to ask for more medical evidence in order to further 
assess the claim. I dont think it was unfair for Vitality to ask for further GP records, or for 
evidence from the virtual GP. It seems that once Vitality received evidence which showed 
that Miss Ts condition hadnt pre-existed the policy start date, it accepted the claim and 
authorised the treatment. This is in line with the policy terms.
However, I dont think Vitality handled its reassessment of the claim in a fair or timely way. 
While I appreciate it needed further third-party medical evidence and it couldnt control when 
that would be received, Vitalitys notes suggest that there were times when weeks would go 
by before the claim was reviewed, or more evidence was requested by the team handling 
the claim. Its clear that Mr W had to repeatedly chase Vitality for updates and little 
information was forthcoming. And in my view, the notes suggest the claim could have been 
progressed, assessed and accepted some weeks sooner than it was. Miss T was without 
treatment for around four months and it appears to me that this period could have been 
reduced by a few weeks.
Mr W told us that Miss Ts condition regressed during this period, to her pre-treatment 
position. He told us that she was in real pain and found it difficult to sleep. As Ive explained, 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Vitality to have initially turned down the claim, or to ask 
for more evidence. So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to award compensation for the whole 
period Miss T was without treatment.
However, as Ive explained, I do think the claim could have been progressed and approved a 
few weeks earlier than it was. So I think these delays likely caused Miss T to suffer 
additional unnecessary pain and distress. And I dont find that the compensation of £150 
which Vitality has already offered Miss T is sufficient to reflect the impact the unnecessary 
delay in approving the claim is likely to have had on her. Instead, I agree with the 
investigator that a total award of £250 compensation (inclusive of the award Vitalitys already 
offered) is fair, reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances. 
Overall then, I direct Vitality to pay Miss T total compensation of £250 to recognise the 
impact of its claims handling on her. Mr W told us that Miss T doesnt want the flowers 
Vitality offered, so Im not including this in my award.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay Miss T £250 compensation (inclusive of the £150 its already offered).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman