DRN-3333466
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt reimbursed him for all the funds hes 
lost, after he was the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
Mr C began investing with company T in February 2018. Hes explained that T lied to him 
and convinced him his investment was doing well, so he invested more. He explained that T 
set up accounts with him for legitimate cryptocurrency firms, C, I and B, and told him this 
was to ensure he got the best rates. However he never had access to these accounts and 
he said the money appeared from these in his account with T, after the payments were 
made.
In October 2018, Mr C contacted Barclays as he says he discovered T was a scam. He said 
this was when he tried to withdraw funds, but was prevented from doing so. Barclays raised 
chargebacks on Mr Cs debit card payments, and some were successful  two of those 
made to I and the single debit card payment to C. The chargebacks for the payments made 
to T were unsuccessful.
The payments Mr C is disputing are as follows:
Date Merchant Payment method Amount Refunded?
27 February 2018 T Debit card £250 No
1 March 2018 T Debit card £2,500 No
1 March 2018 T Debit card £2,500 No
2 March 2018 T Debit card £5,000 No
2 March 2018 T Debit card £5,000 No
2 March 2018 T Debit card £5,000 No
5 March 2018 T Debit card £5,000 No
7 March 2018 T Debit card £1,000 No
30 April 2018 C Bank Transfer £2,501 No
30 April 2018 C Debit card £50 Yes
2 May 2018 C Bank Transfer £8,745 No
3 May 2018 C Bank Transfer £12,500 No
21 May 2018 I Debit card £2,573.81 Yes
22 May 2018 I Debit card £5,146.85 Yes
22 May 2018 I Debit card £5,146.85 Yes
12 June 2018 B Bank transfer £12,500 No
15 June 2018 B Bank transfer £11,700 No
9 August 2018 T Debit card £1,000 No
9 August 2018 T Debit card £4,000 No
11 December 2018 B Bank transfer £3,167.80 No
11 December 2018 B Bank transfer £8,225.15 No
11 December 2018 B Bank transfer £10,233.51 No
In response to the chargeback, T provided screenshots of Mr Cs account with it, supposedly 
showing the trades hed made on the account. It showed what it said were all the payments 
into Mr Cs account, which added up to the total Mr C had paid T from his Barclays account, 
£31,250, plus £5,000 not from his Barclays account. So a total of £36,250 paid in  it didnt 
show all the above amounts prior to October 2018. T also said Mr C had made withdrawals 
from his account, a total of £30,479.30. Barclays was able to find £25,479.30 was paid into 
Mr Cs account by T and the remaining £5,000 T showed wasnt sent to the card linked to 
the Barclays account. So this meant Mr C made a loss of £5,770.70 in total, with £770.70 of 
this loss from this Barclays account.
Barclays accepted Ts explanation and didnt take the matter further. It did however agree to 
refund the first payment made to I, as it accepted it shouldve included this payment when it 
made the chargeback. It said Mr C didnt raise this payment, but it shouldve spotted it was 
the same merchant and also a payment made by debit card.
Mr C raised a claim about the bank transfers he made in December 2018, investigated by 
Barclays in January 2019. But none of these were refunded to him.
Mr C complained that he hadnt received all his funds back and said that Barclays hadnt 
dealt with his account correctly. He said it shouldnt have allowed the payments to be made 
and Barclays shouldve been aware T was fraudulent. Mr C raised some other concerns 
around the service that he received.
Barclays disagreed with Mr Cs complaint about the transactions to T, the remaining 
transactions to C and all the transactions to B. It said C and B were legitimate companies 
and so Mr C wasnt entitled to these funds back, as hed received the cryptocurrency service 
hed paid for. And it didnt agree it could take the case against T any further.
Mr C came to our service and our investigator looked into his complaint. He considered 
Barclays shouldve contacted Mr C on 1 March, after hed made the two £2,500 payments to
T. And if it had, the scam wouldve unravelled and Mr C wouldnt have made any further 
payments to T, including via C and B. So he upheld Mr Cs complaint. But he did say the 
amount Mr C received should be reduced by 20%, to reflect that hed made further payments 
in December 2018, after hed reported T as a scam to Barclays.
Barclays disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. It said that there was 
nothing to link the payments made to C and B to the scam with T. So it couldnt agree these 
should be refunded. And as these were legitimate companies, these payments wouldnt 
have alerted it to any concerns. It also didnt agree that T was necessarily a scam trader, 
due to what it had provided in response to the chargeback and the credits to Mr Cs account. 
So the case was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in early February 2022. My findings were as 
follows:
Im satisfied that Barclays has taken appropriate action in relation to the debit card 
payments on Mr Cs account. The chargeback process is governed by set rules and so 
there are limited situations in which a claim can be successful. I can see Barclays put 
forward a claim for all the payments made to T and it defended this, with persuasive 
evidence. So I dont think it was unfair of Barclays to end the chargeback process and 
re-debit Mr Cs account these payments. This is how the process works.
However, Ive then considered if Barclays actually shouldve allowed these payments 
to go to T in the first instance.As Barclays is aware, our service considers firms should be following the FSA 
consultation from June 2012, and building up an updated watch-list of types of scams 
and potential perpetrators. And our service doesnt consider it unreasonable for each 
firms list to be updated within a month of an alert being posted by the FCA or IOSCO. 
If a payment is then made to a payee on this list, an automatic alert should occur and 
the payment paused, until further enquiries can be made with the payer.
Ive reviewed IOSCOs Investor Alerts Portal and theres a warning about T from April 
2017. So this was more than a month before Mr Cs first payment in February 2018. The 
website address included in this warning is who appeared on his statements as the 
payee. I dont consider it unreasonable to expect Barclays to have spotted this 
information and updated its internal alerts to include information about T, a payee who 
had been reported as carrying out regulated activities without permission.
I think Barclays had enough time to have updated its warning list, considering there 
were ten months between this warning being published and Mr C making his first 
payment. So Barclays ought to have automatically blocked the payment and questioned 
Mr C about his understanding of T. And Im satisfied Mr C thought T was regulated in 
the UK, based on screenshots hes provided of its website when he did start the charge 
back process. He understood it was a UK based company, using a UK telephone 
number.
Mr C didnt have a history of investing and has explained the difficult personal situation 
hes in, so why he was trying to increase his funds. I dont think he was looking to take 
the level of risk associated with an unregulated firm at this point in time. I appreciate he 
did later invest in cryptocurrency and also paid T money after he believed it was a scam. 
But considering this investment and the money Mr C thought hed made  and then the 
desperation at the money he says he lost, I do think his mindset changed over time. So I 
think its more likely that if Barclays had discussed this payment with Mr C and 
suggested he do further research into Ts regulatory status, he wouldnt have gone 
ahead with this particular investment in February 2018.
On that basis, Im minded to say Barclays should refund the payments Mr C made to 
T directly. However, as hes received a large amount of this back, this should of 
course be deducted from what it refunds. I have no reason to believe Mr C didnt 
receive the £5,000 sent to a different account, so it seems only £770.70 is due back 
from these transactions.
Ive then thought carefully about whether Mr C is due back all of the payments he 
made to the three legitimate firms. Mr C has explained to us why he cant evidence 
that the cryptocurrency payments were also part of the scam  the scammer opened 
the accounts for him and so he never had the details himself. So the only evidence 
available is his testimony. Barclays has raised concerns around these payments as it 
says the chargeback process wasnt applicable, due to them being legitimate 
merchants who did provide the service required. And it has concerns about all these 
transfers, as we dont have a paper trail showing the cryptocurrency did end up with 
the scammers.
When Mr C wrote to T in October 2018 he disputed transactions to the value of 
£92,362.55. But in this letter, Mr C has split this amount into three payments and 
neither the total amount hes quoted, nor each of the payments, match up with his 
statements. And this amount doesnt factor in the withdrawals Mr C made from his 
account with T  over £30,000. So it seems this figure isnt accurate. And it seems he 
also didnt raise all of these transactions with Barclays at that time.The first letter Mr C has provided us with, from him to Barclays, only raises a dispute 
about three payments totalling £10,000. And one of these payments is annotated with 
no payment and doesnt appear on Mr Cs statements. But I can see five days later 
Barclays raises chargeback requests for nine payments. This claim didnt include any 
payments to one of the legitimate firms  B, and only £50 to C. I cant see Mr C disputed 
this with Barclays at the time. The first record from him of the other payments being 
raised was late December 2018. And by this time Mr C had made three more payments 
to B totalling over £20,000.
The total amount of the chargeback claim raised in October 2018 was under £32,000. 
So I can understand why Barclays now has concerns about the transactions to the 
legitimate cryptocurrency providers. These make up over £60,000 of Mr Cs disputed 
payments, but Ive not seen any evidence he attempted to recover these payments until 
months after the first set. I accept that chargeback was not the right process for these 
payments, but I cant see they were disputed with Barclays at all in October 2018. And, 
considering the amount, I wouldve expected Mr C to raise them at this time, if he had 
concerns about all the payments hed made.
In October 2018, Mr C provided evidence to Barclays relating to T and why it was a 
fraudulent firm. He then provided a second document when T disputed the chargeback. 
Hes explained to us that T then convinced him it could return his funds if he invested 
more, which is why he sent more money via B in December 2018. But this was weeks 
after hed placed the chargeback claim and compiled these two documents. So Mr C 
had severe concerns around T and knew it wasnt in fact regulated in the UK as it 
claimed, but hes told us he then transferred it over £20,000 more of his funds. I can 
also see why this has concerned Barclays and seems inconsistent.
Mr C has also explained to us that he paid funds to C, I and B and these were then 
moved by the scammer to his account with T. And he saw these amounts appear in his 
account. But in June 2018, Mr C received a payment of over £12,000 from C. It isnt 
clear why C would be transferring funds to Mr C, when hes said this account was 
controlled by the scammer and he understood it was only used to buy currency to then 
trade with using T, not to keep funds in.
My role is not to comment on the actions Mr C took, but I do have to decide if Barclays 
has acted fairly in how it has assessed his actions. I accept why it has concerns around 
the payments made to the legitimate firms. And why it also disagrees it should be 
providing Mr C a reimbursement for the funds he sent after he reported T as a scam 
firm.
Based on the evidence I hold, I cant safely say there was a link between T and the 
payments Mr C made to C and B. And on that basis, even if I accept Barclays 
shouldve called Mr C about some of the payments made to C and B  as they were 
high value and unusual for him  that doesnt mean he should now have them 
refunded. I cant conclude that any intervention wouldve stopped these payments, 
as I cant say they were actually linked to T, so that there was any scam for Barclays 
to uncover or stop with these calls.
I accept Barclays shouldnt have sent the first payments to T, but I dont agree 
Barclays should reimburse him any additional payments not made directly to T 
from his account.
I understand Mr C is dealing with ill health and has to deal with challenges in his daily 
life that will make this decision even more difficult for him. But I cant fairly uphold his 
full complaint on the evidence we hold. I invite both him and Barclays to submit further comments or evidence by the deadline above if they wish to do so. This could 
include any information from the legitimate cryptocurrency providers.
Barclays responded and accepted my provisional decision. Mr C disagreed and provided 
some further evidence.
He provided us with emails from May 2018 between him and the account manager he says 
company T appointed  which discusses his account with C. And he provided further emails 
between him and this individual from March 2019, discussing his account with B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the email Mr C has provided to confirm the link between the accounts with C 
and B and company T.
I accept that in his initial submissions to Barclays in October 2018, Mr C provides an email 
from the same named individual with a T email address. But the emails hes provided to link 
the payments to C and B with T are from a gmail email address. So even if I was to accept 
it is the same person, which I accept is likely, this person is no longer emailing Mr C on his T 
account. We asked Mr C for evidence linking T and these payments in 2021 and again 
before my provisional decision, but he said he couldnt supply the information asked. Then 
since the provisional decision he has found some evidence. But I dont agree it does prove 
theres a link between company T and these payments, as we requested.
If I accept this is the same individual, I dont know why Mr C began contacting him outside of 
his work account. And I also dont know why Mr C was still contacting him in March 2019. 
Mr C has told us that the point he asked for his money to be returned to him is when he 
realised he was the victim of a scam  as his account manager just closed the account. But 
he reported this to Barclays in October 2018, with a 22-page explanation of why hed been 
scammed and said the named individual wasnt a registered broker. And yet he made 
payments to this person in December 2018. Before again reporting this as a scam in late 
December 2018. But then the email chain hes provided is from March 2019 and the named 
individual says:
Regarding your trading account valued at 77 BTC, with an additional deposit to [B] of 
3500 GBP will give you access to withdraw all funds from your accounts to your [B] 
then to Barclays.
So this suggests Mr Cs account is still open, with a positive balance and he can still trade on 
it  and possibly has been trading with this person still.
I dont consider our service does need further information on why Mr C did continue to 
correspond with the individual after he reported the scam. Or Mr C should get a further 
opportunity to link T and the payments to C and B. Weve given him three opportunities to 
provide the further information asked for. I dont consider its appropriate to continue 
pursuing this line of enquiry further, especially when Mr C told us twice he didnt have the 
kind of information he then later provided. At this time I consider I do have enough 
information to decide this case and it is time to do so.
I still cant safely link T to the payments Mr C made to legitimate cryptocurrency firms. And 
without a clear link, theres still no evidence that these payments were made as part of a 
scam. While Mr C reported this scam in October 2018, as in my provisional decision, his reporting of the scam payments isnt what youd expect. And now Mr C has shown us he 
was still corresponding with the individual he reported as a scammer about a trading account 
in March 2019  five months after hed reported the scam  and reported this account 
closed. Due to this I cant confidently say the account with T was the same account as with 
C and B.
I think its worth setting out that at this time we know T wasnt regulated to trade in the UK. 
But that doesnt mean that it was in fact a scam firm. The evidence we hold shows Mr C 
barely made a loss with his direct investments to T, so while it shouldnt have been trading in 
the UK  I fully accept that  we dont actually have any confirmation it was a fraudulent or 
scam firm. With that said, I do still consider he wouldnt have gone ahead with T at the time 
he did, if Barclays had intervened. But I dont consider Barclays needs to return payments 
beyond what Mr C made directly to T.
Accepting Mr Cs testimony, he only experienced a substantial loss once he began investing 
with the named individual outside of direct interactions with T. At this time, he was 
corresponding with the individual on a personal email and sending money to legitimate 
cryptocurrency firms, not straight to T as before. And he continued to deal with this 
individual, including sending additional funds, after he reported T as a scam twice. So this 
brings into question if there is a business link between T and the payments to C and B.
I havent got the evidence to safely conclude that the payments Mr C made to C and B were 
linked to T directly. Ts response to the chargeback only showed the direct payments and 
suggested Mr C stopped trading with it in September 2018. And considering the change in 
behaviour and email address, it seems possible Mr C was then trading outside of T in May 
and June 2018, and then again in December 2018, when he made all the legitimate 
cryptocurrency payments. This would explain why he continued to make payments after 
October 2018 and also was still emailing with the individual after his concerns about T were 
made. As I set out in my provisional decision, without this clear link I cant safely conclude 
that Mr C wouldnt have ended up making the legitimate payments anyway.
The further information provided doesnt change my decision that Barclays was right to have 
some concerns around the testimony Mr C provided and whether or not the legitimate 
payments were linked to the scam Mr C reported with T. With the further information, it is 
possible Mr C was taking the risk of dealing with the named individual directly and this is why 
he continued to make payments and correspond with them after he reported T as a scam. 
So I still cant conclude that he wouldnt have made the direct payments to the legitimate 
firms even if Barclays had intervened. On that basis, I dont conclude the new evidence 
provided does change the fundamental outcome of the provisional decision I reached.
Im still deciding that Barclays should refund Mr C the difference between what he paid T 
directly and what he received from it, as it should have informed him about the warning in 
relation to the regulatory status of this firm. But Im not directing it to refund him any other 
payments he made, that hes told us were sent as part of this scam.
As set out in the background, on revisiting the case, I can see Mr C paid £5,000 more into 
his account with T than previously stated. But this payment was not made from his Barclays 
account, as it doesnt appear on his statements. So Im not changing the amount Im 
directing Barclays to refund, as it isnt responsible for returning this payment.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should refund Mr C £770.70  the amount he lost by making 
payments to T. As he made these payments from his current account, Barclays should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly deductible) at 8% simple interest per year from the 
respective dates of loss to the date of refund.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Cs complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman