DRN-3033250
The complaint
Miss F complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited only offered to pay a proportion 
of the settlement for her claim on her home insurance. 
 
What happened
Miss F had home insurance with Admiral that she took out in 2016 and renewed each year 
after. In January 2021 she was having a new kitchen fitted. When the old one was removed, 
her builder found cracks that appeared to be signs of subsidence. She made a claim on the 
insurance. 
Admiral arranged for an engineer to carry out a virtual inspection of the damage. And 
subsequently requested information about the underpinning of the property that had taken 
place prior to the purchase. Miss F provided a letter from a loss adjuster that related to the 
underpinning.
After this, Admiral contacted Miss F to say that it would only cover part of her claim. It said 
that the problem was linked to an historic subsidence problem at the property and this hadnt 
been declared when she took out the policy or renewed it. It said if she had provided this 
information, it would have charged more for the policy premiums. And Miss F only paid 35% 
of the true cost of the policy. Due to this it said it would only pay a proportion of the cost of 
the claim  35% of the total. And, as this was less than the £1,100 excess, it said it wouldnt 
pay out for the claim. 
Miss F wasnt happy with this. She said, while she knew the property had been underpinned 
before she bought it, she hadnt known it had previous subsidence. She said she hadnt read 
the letter from the solicitor when she received it. And as she had told Admiral it had been 
underpinned, she said she had provided all the information she had at the time of taking out 
the policy. She made a complaint.
Admiral didnt uphold her complaint. It said as Miss F had made a misrepresentation at the 
start and renewal of her policy, it was entitled to only settled her claim proportionately. So it 
maintained its original decision on the claim. 
Miss F didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
After the complaint came to the service, Miss F also said that due to the length of time it took 
Admiral to come to a decision on her claim, she was left without a kitchen for a number of 
weeks. She thought Admiral should compensate her for this. Admiral agreed that we could 
look at this as part of the complaint.
Our investigator considered the issues and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Admiral had acted fairly, and in line with the relevant law, when reaching its 
decision on the claim. However she felt that it should have offered a disturbance allowance 
for the time it would have taken to repair the kitchen. But once the cost was calculated, this 
still fell below the excess so she didnt think Admiral should pay anything.
Miss H didnt accept our investigators opinion and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks that Miss F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when answering the question about the propertys history of subsidence when she took out 
the policy. And that she didnt provide this information at any of the renewals.
Ive considered the question asked when she bought the policy. She was presented with two 
statements in relation to the property and asked if they were correct. These were:
It has never shown signs of heave, landslip or subsidence.
It hasn't had any underpinning or structural support.
Miss F amended the first statement to reflect that the property had been underpinned. But 
confirmed the second statement was correct. 
As part of the claim Miss F provided Admiral with a letter from a loss adjuster who dealt with 
the previous claim for subsidence and subsequent underpinning. This letter very clearly 
states the claim was in relation to subsidence at the property. So I think its reasonable to 
assume Miss F was aware there had been subsidence issues before she bought the 
property. 
Miss F has said that while she was provided with the letter by her solicitor, she had never 
read the contents. So while she was aware the property was underpinned, she hadnt been 
aware this was because of subsidence.
I have considered this, but on balance I think its most likely Miss F was aware of the 
previous problem with subsidence. When buying a property there is a level of due diligence 
that can reasonably be expected from the buyer. As it is in their interest to ensure any 
previous problems are known before the sale goes through, to avoid any future issues that 
may cost money to resolve. And required surveys and documentation will usually give detail 
of these problems. 
Further, Miss F was in possession of a letter that gave details of the previous claim. So 
based on the evidence, I think it was most likely that Miss F was aware of the subsidence at 
the property. So I am satisfied that she didnt take reasonable care to answer the question correctly. 
Further Miss F was provided with a copy of the policy documents, and statement of fact, at 
each renewal. And she even contacted Admiral on two occasions to discuss the cost. During 
these renewals she didnt amend her answer to the subsidence statement. So I agree there 
has been a misrepresentation at the start of the policy and at each renewal.
I now need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. To do this, I have to 
consider whether if Miss F hadnt made the misrepresentation, Admiral would have offered 
the same policy cover on the same terms. 
Admiral has provided information to show that, if Miss F had answered the question about 
subsidence correctly, it would have still offered her a policy but would have charged higher 
premiums. So Im satisfied that the misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Under CIDRA a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate, reckless or careless. And 
the available remedy will depend on which one of these categories the misrepresentation 
falls into. It is for the insurer to prove that a misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless. 
Otherwise it is considered careless. 
In this case Admiral has said it considers Miss Fs misrepresentation to be careless. And I 
agree this is a fair assessment.
CIDRA says where a qualifying misrepresentation has occurred, and it is considered 
careless and the insurer would have offered the policy at a higher cost, it can settle the claim 
proportionately, based on the proportion of the true premium its customer has paid. 
Admiral has shown that the full policy cost would have been £989.77 and Miss F paid 
£338.21 for her policy at the last renewal. This means she only paid around 35% of the 
actual policy premium. Admiral has said it would pay 35% of the cost of the claim. And 
based on these calculations I agree this is fair and inline with its obligations under CIDRA.
Disturbance allowance
When a claim is accepted by an insurer and the property doesnt have working kitchen 
facilities, we would usually expect the insurer to either provide alternative accommodation for 
the insured or pay a disturbance allowance to make up for the extra costs they will incur due 
to not having cooking facilities. Even though Miss Fs claim wasnt paid out, it was accepted 
by Admiral, it just didnt exceed the excess, so no amount was paid in settlement. So Ive 
considered whether it should pay disturbance allowance. 
As disturbance allowance would have been paid as part of the claim, I agree with our 
investigator that it should be considered as part of the proportional settlement. Miss F has 
said that due to Admiral taking so long validating her claim, she was waiting weeks for her 
kitchen to be reinstalled. However I dont think the amount of time Admiral took was 
unreasonable. And the reason it took longer to validate the claim was because of the 
misrepresentation Miss F made. So I don think it would be fair to ask Admiral to compensate 
Miss F for this time. 
Therefore if I were to require Admiral to pay disturbance allowance, this would only be for 
the time it would take Miss F to have the repairs completed. And Admiral has said this would 
take around one week. This would amount to a payment of £105, based on the rate this 
service considers reasonable - £10 per adult per day and £5 per child. When added to the 
total claim cost, 35% of this still falls under the excess of £1,100. So I agree with our 
investigator that it doesnt meet the claim threshold, and therefore it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Admiral to pay these costs. So I wont ask Admiral to pay disturbance allowance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman