DRN-4226593
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that JAJA FINANCE LTD (JaJa) closed her credit card account despite 
her wanting to keep it. 
What happened
On 17 March 2023, JaJa e-mailed Mrs C saying they had decided to discontinue the credit 
card she held with them. They told her the account would automatically close on 24 May 
2023. 
Mrs C complained to JaJa as she wasnt happy with their decision. She said shed held the 
card for over 20 years and had never been in arrears or missed a payment. JaJa didnt 
uphold the complaint and said they hadnt chosen to close the account because of how she 
had used it; rather it was because they had chosen to discontinue the product.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said JaJa had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account by giving Mrs C two months notice that they would close it. He 
also said JaJa had made a commercial business decision to discontinue the product and 
that they had acted fairly. 
Mrs C didnt agree and said her mother had the same credit card and account and hadnt 
been told this was being cancelled. Mrs C felt JaJas decision was prejudicial against her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs C isnt happy with JaJas decision to close her credit card and 
account. However, I dont think JaJa has acted unfairly or with prejudice towards her. 
Ive considered the basis on which JaJa invoked the terms and conditions of the credit card 
account to make their decision. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and these say under 
clause 13.4 that:
Unless there are exceptional circumstances or unless you are in breach of this Agreement, 
we can end this Agreement at any time by giving you at least two months written notice. The 
Agreement will then terminate at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day 
after the day on which we give you notice. 
The term in question set out that JaJa could choose to end Mrs Cs credit card account. And 
Ive seen that they gave her two months notice before they closed it. So, Im satisfied they 
acted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Ultimately, its for JaJa to decide whether they want to discontinue a particular product and 
its not for me to say otherwise. The caveat to that is if JaJa treated Mrs C unfairly in making 
that decision. However, Ive not been persuaded they did act unfairly towards her. 
I realise that Mrs C feels this decision was prejudicial to her. However, Ive noticed there are 
online consumer forums where customers of JaJa have highlighted they were told their 
accounts would be closing with the same notice period Mrs C was given. Ive also seen that 
those customers had credit cards that had previously been issued by the same business that 
issued Mrs Cs card (before JaJa acquired those cards and accounts). So, with this in mind, I 
dont find that JaJa acted prejudicially towards Mrs C as theres information online that 
shows that many others were affected by the same issue. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman