DRN-2660859
The complaint
Mr B complains that Intrum UK Limited has been chasing him for a debt which he has 
already settled. Mr B wants Intrum to stop making contact about the debt and amend his 
credit file.
 
What happened
In early 2018, Intrum bought a debt in Mr Bs name from a business that I will refer to as T. 
Mr B complained to Intrum in March 2020. He said that it was ignoring his request to cease 
and desist contacting him about the debt. Mr B said that Intrum would be guilty of 
harassment if it continued to ask him to repay the debt. 
Mr B said Intrum had ignored his claim that the debt has been settled and removed from his 
credit file. Mr B asked for the deed of assignment between Intrum and T either under the 
Companies Act 2006 or the Law of Property Act 1925.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld. She didnt think Intrum 
needed to give Mr B a copy of the deed of assignment. She didnt think that it was 
unreasonable to ask Mr B to repay the debt even after he had sent the cease and desist 
letter. And the investigator hadnt seen evidence to show that Mr B had repaid the 
outstanding debt.
Mr B raised several legal arguments in response to the investigators views. But he helpfully 
summarised his key points. Mr B says its an unfair practice on the part of Intrum to keep 
asking for payment after he said he wouldnt pay anything until it proved its claim. Mr B says 
the debt doesnt exist or has been paid in full. Mr B says that Intrum doesnt have proof of 
claim as it needs to produce a deed of assignment with four signatures. 
Mr B says that Intrum is in breach of the regulations concerning data protection and doesnt 
respect his contact preferences. He is unhappy that Intrum continues to ask him for payment 
when he disputes the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by the parties 
involved. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Instead Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the key issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this.
We offer an informal and impartial dispute resolution service as an alternative to court. And 
we dont have the same powers as court. But whilst I dont apply the law directly, I do take 
account of it. 
Its not a matter for this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. That is for 
the courts to decide. I consider that Intrum has reasonable grounds to believe that Mr B 
owes the money. And Im satisfied that Intrum owns the debt as it sent Mr B a notice of 
assignment when it took the account over from T. Although Mr B would like to see the deed 
of assignment, I cant say that its unreasonable of Intrum not to give him a copy. 
As a regulated business, Intrum must follow the rules set by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its handbook known as CONC explains what a business should do when it buys a 
debt. The relevant rule is:
CONC 6.5 
(1) Where the rights of a lender under a regulated credit agreement are assigned to a 
firm, that firm must arrange for notice of the assignment to be given to the customer;
(a) as soon as reasonably possible;
The terms of Mr Bs agreement with T allowed it to transfer its rights and duties to another 
company. Im satisfied that Intrum gave notice of the assignment to Mr B when it wrote to 
him in February 2018. I know that Mr B has asked Intrum to prove that the notices were 
delivered. I appreciate that given the passage of time, Mr B might not recall receiving them, 
but Im satisfied that notices from T and Intrum were sent to his current address. There 
wasnt any obligation on Intrum to send the notices by recorded mail for example. And I cant 
hold Intrum responsible for any failure in the postal service.
In 2019, the High Court decided that where two parties to the assignment (here thats T and 
Intrum) consider the debt to have been validly transferred  and notify the debtor  thats 
enough for the assignment to be considered valid. And for the new owner to acquire the right 
to collect the debt. It follows that I dont require Intrum to provide the deed. If Mr B still wants 
to see a copy of the deed of assignment, he would have to make an application through the 
courts.
The FCA sets rules for businesses to follow when collecting debts. It expects businesses to 
treat people in financial difficulties fairly and with forbearance and due consideration. And 
the business must take additional safeguards if its aware of a customers vulnerability.
Although Mr B asked Intrum to cease and desist from contacting him about the debt, I cant 
say that this means it should be prevented from asking him to repay a debt that it now owns. 
The letter doesnt have any legal force which requires Intrum to act upon it. 
Mr B has referred to 2g of the Debt Collection Guidance in support of his argument that its 
an unfair business practice on the part of Intrum to ask him for payment after he sent the 
cease and desist letter. I assume Mr B is referring to the guidance published by the Office of 
Fair Trading (OFT). I do not intend any disrespect to Mr B, but this guidance is no longer in 
force as the regulator is now the FCA and not the OFT. And even if this wasnt the case, the 
guidance refers to the way someone is contacted rather than stopping contact entirely. The 
section that Mr B quotes talks about ignoring a request not to make contact during a certain 
time of day  for example if the debtor is a shift worker. I dont consider this meant that a 
creditor must stop all contact if requested.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Intrum has done anything wrong when asking 
Mr B to repay the debt. The level of contact hasnt been excessive in nature. I appreciate 
that Mr B would prefer Intrum to stop asking him for payment, but I cant reasonably require 
it to do this. Mr B says he lives in a shared property and Intrum isnt respecting his contact preferences. If 
this means there is a specific way in which Mr B should be contacted, I invite him to let 
Intrum know
Mr B says that T removed its entry from his credit file which indicates that the debt has been 
settled. I appreciate that the credit reports that Mr B has provided dont include any 
reference to T. Its possible that T removed its entry when it sold Mr Bs debt to Intrum. But I 
dont find that this means that Mr B settled the debt with T. Particularly as Ts notice of 
assignment addressed to Mr B and dated 9 February 2018 refers to the balance being due. 
Mr B hasnt given us evidence that he settled the debt with T direct. 
The notice of assignment refers to Mr B having agreed a repayment plan with T which Intrum 
said could continue. And Intrum says it did receive a total of £10 from Mr B. This isnt 
consistent with Mr B saying he believes the debt didnt exist. 
As Intrum has bought Mr Bs debt, I cant find that that it has done anything wrong when it 
has retained information about him. Mr B raised concerns about Intrums compliance with 
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). This is the legislation which protects how 
peoples data is used and gives individuals more rights and control over how an organisation 
uses their data. Its not the role of this service to decide whether a business has breached 
the GDPR. That would be for the regulator, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to 
decide. I leave it with Mr B to bring his concerns to the attention of the ICO if he wishes.
Mr B says that T was irresponsible to led him money but as the investigator explained, this is 
something he should direct to T as the original creditor making the decision to lend. 
I appreciate that my decision will disappoint Mr B as he has gone to a great deal of effort to 
put forward his arguments. But overall, I dont consider that Intrum has dealt with things 
unfairly and I think its reasonable for it to ask Mr B to repay the debt he owes.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman