DRN-4146251
The complaint
Mr B complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance lent 
to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr B applied for a loan with Novuna in July 2021. Novuna approved the application and gave 
Mr B a loan for £10,000 repayable over a term of 60 months with monthly repayments of 
£274.06.
Mr B complained that Novuna had lent to him irresponsibly.
Novuna didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr B.
Mr B was unhappy with the response and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Novuna had carried out 
reaosbable and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mr B did t agree. He felt that Novuna shouldve carried out further checks to verify his 
income and expenditure. He said that he was fully utilising his overdraft facility at the time of 
the application and that this shouldve been showing on his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Novuna had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mr B was able to sustainably repay the lending. These 
affordability checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances and could take 
into account factors such as the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of the 
repayments and the consumers financial circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Mr B declared gross annual income of £62,000 in his application. Novuna validated this 
using data from the credit reference agencies and calculated Mr Bs net monthly income as 
£3,707.99.
Novuna carried out a credit search. This showed that Mr B had existing consumer credit 
commitments of around £14,000 and monthly credit repayments of around £476.
Based on the information Mr B provided about his status, Novuna used a data tool to 
estimate his rental costs at around £334.
Using the information it had gathered, Novuna calculated that Mr B would have monthly 
disposable income of around £2623 after repayment of existing credit commitments 
including the new loan) and housing costs. Novuna felt that this sum was sufficient for Mr B 
to meet his other expenses and assessed the loan as affordable.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Novuna were reasonable and 
proportionate, considering the amount of the loan and the term over which repayments were 
to be made. I dont think there was anything in the information gathered by Novuna which 
suggested that Mr B was struggling to repay his credit commitments or that wouldve 
necessitated further checks to be carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair. Ive reviewed the information 
which Novuna obtained from the credit checks. Mr B had unsecured debt of around £14,000, 
comprising a hire purchase agreement for a vehicle and revolving credit (credit cards, 
overdrafts and other credit balances). The credit checks showed that Mr B was using around 
37% of his available credit limit, which I dont think is particularly high, or at a level which 
shouldve given Novuna cause for concern.
The credit checks showed that Mr B hadnt defaulted on any accounts in the last 3 years and 
hadnt fallen into arrears on any accounts in the last 2 years. There was no evidence of 
multiple credit searches or multiple account opening, or anything to suggest that Mr B was 
struggling financially or becoming overly reliant on credit.
Mr B has said that he was utilising his overdraft facility at the time he applied for the loan and 
that Novuna shouldve seen this from his credit file. Ive looked into this, and I can see that 
the credit checks showed that Mr Bs current account provider reported a positive balance on 
the account to the credit reference agencies on the date of the credit search, so Novuna 
wouldnt have been aware that Mr B was using his overdraft facility.
Taking all of the available information into account, I dont think theres anything in the 
information gathered by Novuna which suggests that Mr B wasnt likely to be able to 
sustainably repay the loan. Based on what Ive seen, I think the lending decision as fair.
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman