DRN-4448292
The complaint
Ms B complains about a shortfall in funds when ITI Capital Limited transferred her 
investments to a new product provider.
What happened
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld.
After reviewing everything I came to a different outcome to our Investigator and thought 
things should be put right in a different way. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2023 in which I said:
Its clear how strongly Ms B feels about what happened and I want to assure her that Ive 
considered everything that has been provided. 
Where there is missing or conflicting information, Ive come to a decision based on the 
balance of probabilities about what I think is most likely to have happened
In November 2021, prior to the transfer to the new product provider, ITI confirmed the value 
of Ms Bs investments was £171,350.31.
When the transfer was made some months later an amount of £135,903.26 was sent  this 
was a shortfall of £35,447.05.
ITI say this difference was because of an accounting issue between two systems used to 
hold Ms Bs investment meaning the wrong balance was provided in November 2021. And 
looking at what happened Im persuaded that is the case, and that the correct balance was 
transferred to the new provider. 
ITI used two accounting systems to hold the balances of two different parts of the 
investment. When the balance was provided to Ms B in November 2021 there was an issue 
with some double accounting where a balance of a smaller portion of the investment was 
counted twice. 
This accounting issue can be seen in two statements provided to Ms B in October 2021.
The main statement shows closing balances of £133,837.96 and USD$2,834.43.
Included in those balances are cash credited in non-trading transactions amounts of 
£34,246.95 and USD$1,655.35.
A second Activity Statement was provided which shows Ending Settled Cash balances of 
£34,246.95 and USD$1,655.35.
So whilst issuing two statements may have caused some confusion Im satisfied that the 
balances in the Activity Statement were included in the balance of the main statement.
The error came about when ITI provided a balance to Ms B in November 2021 and added 
both amounts together in error. 
Changes in the balance of the investment before the transfer meant that £135,903.26 was 
sent to the new provider. This was less than Ms B expected due to the error when providing 
her with the balance of her investment, however Im satisfied this was the correct amount of 
the investment at the time. And Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that the amount 
provided to Ms B in error existed or was ever the actual balance of the investment.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied ITI transferred the correct 
amount of Ms Bs investment. Im persuaded there was an error in providing an inflated 
balance of the investments which led to a loss of expectation, rather than any mistake with 
the actual amount transferred.
Ms B has been put to a level of distress and inconvenience by what happened. Our 
Investigator thought ITI should pay £100 for the trouble and upset caused. Considering the 
length of time the issue has been going on, and also the amount of money involved, I think a 
payment of £300 is fair for what happened. Ive also taken into account the failure of ITI to 
meet the time limits and provide information which means that things have taken longer to 
resolve.
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should pay Ms B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further submissions before I issued my final 
decision. 
Ms B replied disagreeing with the decision providing extra reasoning about why she thought 
the issue wasnt caused by a duplication on ITIs systems.
ITI didnt provide any further comments. 
The complaint has now been passed back to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the response from Ms B however I find myself coming to the same 
conclusion as my provisional decision. Im persuaded, on balance, that there were errors in 
providing information to Ms B rather than any mistakes in the amount transferred. 
Ms B is understandably unhappy with the outcome of this complaint. And in her response 
asked what evidence ITI had provided to support their stance. The reasoning I used in my 
provisional decision comes from statements provided by Ms B, and Ive also read and 
considered everything else that has been provided. 
Ive conducted an independent review of everything from both parties when coming to a 
what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
where there is conflicting information, as some of it is here, Ive come to a decision based on 
what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Having carefully considered everything I think ITI should pay Ms B £300 for the distress and inconvenience of what happened when being given the incorrect information. Im satisfied 
this is a fair and reasonable way of putting things right. However Im not persuaded, on 
balance, that there were any errors in the amount transferred. 
Putting things right
ITI Capital Limited should pay Ms B £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused by what 
happened.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint.
To put things right ITI Capital Limited should take the action Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman