DRN-3901923
The complaint
Mr F complained about Haven Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
amount it offered in settlement following a claim under his motor insurance policy after his 
vehicle was stolen. 
What happened
Mr Fs vehicle was written off after a claim under his commercial motor insurance policy. 
Haven looked into the claim and wrote his vehicle off as it was beyond economical repair 
and looked to pay Mr F the market value.
As Mr F wasnt happy about this as he thought his vehicle was worth a lot more than Haven 
had offered he complained to Haven and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr F and upheld his complaint. Although he thought 
Haven had offered a fair market value for Mr Fs vehicle he didnt think it was fair for it not to 
pay VAT. This was because Mr F wasnt VAT registered and would have to pay VAT for any 
new vehicle he purchased, so he asked Haven to pay this, plus 8% simple interest and £150 
compensation.
Haven didnt agree. It felt Mr F wasnt able to show he paid VAT when he bought the vehicle 
so it didnt think it would be fair to pay him VAT now. So the matter has been referred to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
When looking at valuations placed on vehicles by insurance companies I consider the 
approach they have adopted and decide whether or not the valuation is fair in all the 
circumstances. I pay particular attention to the various valuation guides used for valuing 
vehicles, as well as other evidence provided by both parties. 
This evidence might include advertisements for the sale of similar vehicles, but I place a lot 
less weight on advertisements than on the valuation guides. The condition of the vehicle at 
the time the theft or damage occurred is also an important factor to consider. I will only order 
a business to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
Having looked at the valuation guides I cant say the market value Haven offered is 
unreasonable. Valuing second-hand vehicles is far from an exact science and it isnt my role 
to value Mr Fs vehicle. But Haven has provided evidence of the data it got from the guides 
which is in line with our investigators own valuations, so I think the valuation feels fair.
However, although I can understand why Haven doesnt think it should pay VAT I dont think 
that would lead to a fair outcome in this case or pay the full market value which is what the 
policy obliges Haven to. I say this as Mr F isnt VAT registered and so would have to pay 
VAT on any replacement vehicle he bought. So, it feels fair that Haven should pay him a 
valuation in line with the marketplace he would have to shop in to buy a replacement vehicle. 
Plus, I know Haven has suggested Mr F may have bought his vehicle without paying VAT in 
the first instance but there simply isnt any evidence of this.
Given all of this, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case is for Haven to pay Mr F the outstanding VAT from the date of claim plus 8% 
simple interest. I agree it should also pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused 
to Mr F in advancing all this and for the delay.
Finally, I note that Mr F has raised a number of other issues, but they are being advanced 
separately. This complaint has focussed on the valuation placed on his vehicle in line with 
the complaint Mr F raised with Haven and it responded to in its final response letter of 14 
September 2022.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven 
Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr F the VAT owed plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of claim until the date of settlement. Plus, £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman