DRN-4500215
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given by Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr H approached Quilter in October 2016 to discuss his pension and retirement needs  and 
specifically in relation to his deferred DB pension scheme. 
Quilter recorded some information about Mr Hs circumstances. It noted that he was 61, 
married with three non-dependent children. Mr H was employed earning approximately 
£33,000. His wife was also employed and she earned around £46,500. And they received 
some rental income from a second property (unencumbered) they owned of around £6,000 a 
year. They had a mortgage on their home of approximately £62,000, which had a remaining 
term of just under four years. They had around £37,000 in savings and other than the 
mortgage, they had no other liabilities. Quilter also carried out an assessment of Mr Hs 
attitude to risk, which it deemed to be balanced. 
Quilter issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 3 February 
2017. This said, while Mr H didnt know when he would retire, he wanted to have control 
over his pension to be able to adopt a phased retirement plan. It said he wanted flexibility  
to able to take ad hoc lump sums if needed - because he felt he already had enough 
guaranteed income in place. It said he also wanted to leave a legacy for his family. It said 
Mr H wasnt in the best of health and longevity didnt run in his family.
Quilter recommended that Mr H transfer his pension to meet his stated objectives  to have 
control and flexibility and to protect the death benefits for his family so they could inherit any 
residual funds. Quilter recommended a pension provider and two investment funds that it 
said was in line with his attitude to risk. The suitability report also noted that ongoing advice 
was recommended, which would come at a further cost.
Using the services of a representative, Mr H complained in 2023 to Quilter about the 
suitability of the transfer advice. He said by transferring, his accrued future guaranteed 
benefits were put into a non-guaranteed pension fund that was too high risk for him. He said 
he wasnt financially experienced and he didnt fully understand the implications and risks of 
the recommendation to transfer.
Quilter didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It summary it said it believed the adviser correctly 
followed procedures, acted in good faith and in Mr Hs best interests. And in doing so, it said 
it provided appropriate advice and a suitable recommendation that met Mr Hs needs and 
objectives as set out in the advice paperwork.
Mr H referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. He disagreed with 
Quilters assessment that the advice he received was suitable.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable 
as Mr H wasnt likely to improve on the benefits he was already guaranteed by transferring. 
And they didnt think there were other compelling reasons to indicate the transfer was 
suitable. They said lump sum death benefits wasnt a suitable reason to transfer. And they 
didnt think Mr H needed flexibility in retirement  his reasons for wanting it werent explored, 
but in any event because he had a personal pension of a similar value, he couldve used this 
to achieve flexibility. They said if suitable advice had been given to retain his DB scheme, 
Mr H wouldve likely accepted that advice.  
Quilter disagreed. It said the advice paperwork was clear about Mr Hs objectives. It said 
Mr H and his wife had guaranteed retirement income of £36,000 and rental income of 
£6,000. It said Mr Hs health was a concern for him and he wanted to take a flexible income, 
which is what he is now doing. It said Mr H couldnt have achieved things by staying in the 
DB scheme. It said Mr H fully understood the risks and implications and his email to the 
adviser at the time, he reiterated how the transfer met his objectives. It said Mr H had 
accessed a cash lump sum since transferring  again something he couldnt have done if 
hed remained in the DB scheme. It also questioned the validity of Mr Hs complaint given 
hed not previously raised any concerns during his annual review meetings.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion. They said while they accepted 
Mr Hs objectives were clear, it was the advisers role to determine what was in his best 
interests  not simply follow what he wanted. They also acknowledged Mr Hs health 
concerns, but said there was nothing to show he did have a reduced life expectancy. In 
relation to Mr Hs lump sum withdrawal from his pension, they said this wasnt planned at the 
time and it would in any event be taken into account in any redress calculation. And in terms 
of Mr H not having previously raised concerns about the advice he received, they said this 
wasnt unreasonable and the fact is he has now.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Quilter  
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Hs best interests. 
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
Firstly, and for the avoidance of doubt, while Quilter has questioned the validity of Mr Hs 
complaint, Im satisfied it is one that I can consider. Mr H might not have expressed 
dissatisfaction with the advice he received during past annual reviews of his pension. But its 
clear he feels differently now. Ultimately hes made a written expression of 
dissatisfaction about the provision of a financial service and hes not out of time in doing so. 
Financial viability 
Quilter carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS) - as required by the regulator - 
showing how much Mr Hs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield).
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Mr H was 61 at the time of the advice and he said he didnt know when he would retire  but 
it would be no later than 66. In the TVAS report of 19 January 2017, the critical yield was 
19.13% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 65  
the schemes normal retirement age. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced 
pension the scheme would provide at that age, was 17.12%.
 
This compares with the discount rate of 2.8% per year for three years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Hs 
recorded balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would 
be little point in Mr H giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
But here, given the lowest critical yield was 17.12%, I think Mr H was always likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. Indeed the suitability report noted that This 
critical yield figure is higher than the mid-rate assumption figure, which means it is unlikely to 
be achievable. The required return was also significantly above the regulators upper 
projection rate, so to have come anywhere close to achieving the returns needed wouldve 
required Mr H to adopt a much higher level of risk than hed indicated he was prepared to 
take. 
While it doesnt alter my conclusion above that Mr H was always likely to be worse off in 
retirement by transferring, I have some concerns about how Quilter assessed Mr H was a 
balanced risk investor. I say this because of the answers Mr H gave to what I think were 
key questions in the risk assessment Quilter employed. For example, Mr H said that people 
who knew him would describe him as being cautious; generally he looked for the safest type 
of investment; he had little investment experience; and he was concerned about the 
uncertainty of stock markets. I think these answers when viewed through the lens of 
Mr Hs wider circumstances, including his age and the fact he was approaching the tail end 
of his working life, shouldve reasonably prompted Quilter to question a balanced risk 
approach. I think a more appropriate assessment was cautious or a low risk approach  
I think this is more likely the level of risk Mr H was truly prepared to take.
And I think this is supported by the evidence. In relation to Mr Hs existing personal pension 
investments, the suitability report said that he was invested in a cautious managed fund - so 
most likely lower than a balanced approach. And in relation to his DB pension monies, it 
said he was looking for diversity with this portion of your pension and reduced risk....  I 
dont think this supports a willingness to take a balanced risk approach.
So I think Mr H was in fact a low or cautious risk investor. In any event, this doesnt alter 
my view of the financial viability of the transfer, because even if he was prepared to take a 
balanced approach, he wasnt going to be better off in retirement as a result. And for this 
reason alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Hs best interests. But I accept 
that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as Quilter has 
argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Quilter recommended the transfer to meet Mr Hs need for flexibility and control  to enable 
him to gradually retire in the future and access ad hoc tax-free cash and income.
At 61 I think its likely that Mr H had given some though to his retirement. But Im not 
persuaded that Mr H required flexibility in retirement or that he needed to transfer his DB 
pension benefits at this stage to achieve things, if thats what he ultimately needed.
Quilter referred to Mr Hs objective in its suitability report of wanting flexibility to gradually 
retire. But in the same report it also recorded that Mr H didnt yet know when he would retire 
and it said, You do not yet know whether you will gradually retire or work full time and then 
fully retire.  So it seems Mr H had no clear or firm retirement plan. Without any kind of plan, 
I find it difficult to understand how Mr H knew he needed flexibility. 
Nothing Ive seen suggests he had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement 
and there was no apparent need for him to want to access a cash lump sum and defer taking 
an income. Quilter also said Mr H could access a greater tax-free lump sum by transferring. 
And while this was true, it didnt record that he had a capital expenditure desire that 
supported a need for a higher amount than his DB scheme would provide. So its possible 
that any need couldve been met by his DB schemes lump sum provision. Mr H might have liked the idea of flexibility and the ability to access ad hoc lump sums  but 
it strikes me the reference to flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring 
to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Hs.
But in any event, Mr H already had flexibility, if thats what he ultimately wanted in 
retirement. As the Investigator rightly pointed out, he already had a personal pension with a 
value of around £76,700. And Mr H couldve accessed this by taking income and/or lump 
sums as he required to either support his income or for capital expenditure needs. He also 
had a not inconsiderable sum in savings, which he couldve also used as and when he 
needed to achieve the same result. 
Turning to Mr Hs income need - Quilter recommended the transfer because Mr H didnt 
need any more guaranteed income, so having this pension in a more flexible format was 
important as it provided the flexibility he required.
Mr H said he was looking for £3,000 net per month when he retired. But firstly Quilter doesnt 
appear to have carried out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis to 
interrogate this amount and determine whether it was realistic and what he actually needed. 
I wouldve expected it to have done so in the circumstances. Secondly, Quilter said Mr Hs 
guaranteed income comprised his wifes DB pension, both their state pensions and the 
rental income. But while their rental income appears to have been stable, I dont think it can 
reasonably be considered as guaranteed income. And Im mindful that Mr Hs other private 
pension provision was already in at risk assets because it was invested in a personal 
pension. So his DB scheme represented the only guaranteed private source of pension 
income he had.
But the fact Mr H said he didnt need any more guaranteed income in my view wasnt a good 
enough reason to justify the transfer as being in his best interests. Particularly when the 
primary reason given by Quilter for recommending he relinquish that guarantee was to 
provide flexibility  something Ive already said I dont think he needed or was a true 
objective. I think it was simply a consequence of transferring.
Overall  I dont think it was in Mr Hs best interests to transfer for flexibility that Im not 
persuaded he needed  and certainly not beyond that which he already had. Mr Hs DB 
scheme provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, which wasnt going to be 
bettered by transferring. So with no real need for flexibility, I dont think it was in his best 
interests to transfer out of his DB scheme.
While I can see Mr H subsequently went on to access a cash lump sum from his pension, 
something Quilter says supports the suitability of the advice, this was subsequent to the 
advice given and was not planned or foreseen at the time. Mr H accessed the money 
because he could. If hed remained in his DB scheme I think its likely he wouldve sourced 
the money he needed from elsewhere. And just because Mr H did go on to access his 
pension this way does not, in my view, make unsuitable advice suitable. 
 
Death benefits
Quilter recommended the transfer because Mr H wanted to leave a legacy for his family  he 
wanted the ability for them to inherit his residual fund upon his death.
While I understand the lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was 
likely an attractive feature to Mr H and he might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to advise him 
about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide 
income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. 
And the existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses pension, that couldve 
been valuable to his family in the event of his death. This was guaranteed and it escalated  
it wasnt dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. So while the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive 
as a potential lump sum, because it was dependent on investment performance, the sum 
remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be different. It wouldve also 
been reduced by any income Mr H drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have provided the 
legacy that Mr H may have thought it would. 
Im mindful that Mr H already had lump sum death benefits  he had an existing personal 
pension he could nominate his family members as beneficiaries of, if he hadnt already done 
so. He also had other assets including an investment property  so his family stood to inherit 
a not inconsiderable amount anyway.
But, if Mr H genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, Quilter couldve explored life 
insurance as an alternative. I appreciate Mr Hs age and his health wouldve likely meant the 
premiums would be high. But given Mr Hs sizeable household income as Quilter recorded in 
the advice paperwork, it seems likely he couldve met the associated premiums. And this 
couldve been considered on a whole of life or term assurance basis  which was likely to be 
less expensive. But there's little evidence Quilter did so.  
More broadly, Ive thought about the fact Mr H had a health condition and so appears to 
have had concerns about his life expectancy. But Mr H not reaching his life expectancy was 
only a possibility - it was also possible that he would exceed this, in which case hed need 
his pension to last longer. If Mr H transferred out of the DB scheme he would be relying on 
investment returns to ensure sufficient capital remained in the personal pension to provide 
the death benefits, whereas the spouses pension was guaranteed and escalated. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the likely 
decrease of retirement benefits for Mr H. I dont think that insurance was properly explored 
as an alternative. And ultimately Quilter should not have encouraged Mr H to prioritise the 
potential for alternative death benefits through a personal pension over his security in 
retirement.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr H. But Quilter 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr H might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr H needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr H was suitable. Although not large, he was 
giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. 
Crucially by transferring, he was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my 
view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
Mr H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility that 
Im not persuaded he really needed and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme.
So, I think Quilter shouldve advised Mr H to remain in his DB scheme.And I also havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr H wouldve insisted on transferring, 
against advice to remain in the DB scheme. It may well have been Mr H that instigated a 
review of his pension  but he was in my view an inexperienced investor who neither 
possessed the requisite skill, knowledge nor confidence to go against the advice he was 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. I think he relied solely on the advice he was 
given. So, if Quilter had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB 
scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and that he could still likely meet all of 
his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. I think he wouldve accepted that advice - I dont think he wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme.
So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr H received from Quilter was 
unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr H as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr H wouldve most 
likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Quilter must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr H retired at age 66. So, because this is both what the advice paperwork 
recorded would likely happen and what actually happened, in this case I think fair 
compensation should be based on him taking benefits at this age. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Quilter should:
calculate and offer Mr H redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr H before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr H receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr H accepts Quilters offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr H for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Hs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr H as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. 
So, in line with DISP App 4, Quilter may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Quilter Wealth Ltd to pay Mr H the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman