DRN-2184595
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC) complain that The 
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) gave them unsuitable 
advice and they suffered a financial loss.  
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs N invested £10,000 into a Co-Operative Investment Bond in December 2006. 
The investment bond had different underlying funds available to suit different attitudes to 
risk. The bond was designed for a consumer who wished to invest more than £5,000 over 
the medium to long term (over 5 years) to achieve capital growth. Mr and Mrs N chose to 
invest in the JPM Japanese Fund.
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs N invested £10,000 into the bond in December 2006 but 
when they closed the investment in November 2017, they received £7,131.53. The JPM 
Japanese fund was switched in 2009 by Mr and Mrs N without advice from Royal London.
The CMC say that Mr and Mrs N were mis-sold the investment bond as they were 
inexperienced investors and the JPM Japanese bond carried too high a risk to them. The 
CMC complained to Royal London who investigated the complaint. Royal London rejected 
the complaint as they believed that they had done nothing wrong and Mr and Mrs N had 
specifically requested the JPM Japanese bond when they met with their advisor.
Unhappy with Royal Londons response, the CMC referred the complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He found that Royal London had acted 
unfairly and upheld the complaint for the following reasons:
there was insufficient information to assess Mr and Mrs N as adventurous investors 
and he would have expected more definitive information to confirm the attitude to risk 
the fund was classed as an aggressive fund and didnt match the stated investment risk 
the advisor worked his recommendation around Mr and Mrs Ns suggestion to invest in 
the JPM Japanese fund 
There was no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs N were insistent customers who went 
against the advice given.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Royal London have asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
In investigating the complaint, I need to consider if Royal London made an error and 
provided Mr and Mrs N with unsuitable advice. I have reviewed the various documents that 
are available from the point of sale and what documentation was sent to Mr and Mrs N. 
Although I cant say for certain what was discussed at the meeting between Mr and Mrs N I 
will look at what is likely to have happened on the balance of probability.
When a business provides advice to a consumer, they need to consider many factors which 
include the clients personal circumstances and experience, their financial commitments, 
attitude to risk and financial aims.  This is normally done via a fact find or suitability 
assessment and the answers will allow a business to provide advice that matches what the 
consumer is looking to achieve. 
Ive looked at what Royal London have provided following the meeting with Mr and Mrs N 
and their advisor. It contains much of what I would expect to see and describes their 
personal financial circumstances including income and monthly outgoings and their ability to 
suffer a loss. From what I have seen, Mr and Mrs N had disposal income to invest.
Mr and Mrs N had no major commitments and did not have a mortgage. They had savings 
and had other investments including gilts and bonds and they both has shares and invested 
each month into an ISA.
During the meeting, the advisor provided Mr and Mrs N with a booklet called Making the 
right investment choice. This booklet was used to discuss their attitude to risk and it listed 
seven risks levels one being lowest and seven the highest. The Suitability Letter that was 
sent to Mr and Mrs N after the meeting records their risk as adventurous which has a risk 
rating of five. Adventurous is described in the guide as:
You are prepared to accept above average risk to your capital, with the aim of achieving a 
high return.
You understand that the value of your capital is likely to fluctuate on a daily basis and may 
fall below the level of your initial investment over relatively long periods. At the same time 
you understand that investments in this category have the potential to yield returns that 
significantly outperform deposit based accounts .
You are likely to have a number of less risky equity investments already, and may have 
some additional funds with which you are prepared to take a higher level of risk
You are therefore happy to invest in many of the funds available on the stock market, and 
may go further afield in your search for good investment opportunities  for example looking 
at American and European growth funds.
In his view, the investigator has said that he wasnt sure there was enough evidence to 
confirm if Mr and Mrs N fulfilled the criteria to be considered as adventurous. I hold the view 
that the fact find suggests that Mr and Mrs had some experience through previous 
investments, and it was noted that Mr N read the financial press. But I think that there is a 
gap in what the fact finds has as their attitude to risk and the risk rating of the JPM Japanese 
fund that was purchased. This would be an indication that the advice may be unsuitable.
The CMC has said that the investment was mis-sold as Mr and Mrs N were advised to take 
out an investment that carried too high a risk. The risk rating of the JPM Japanese fund that 
was purchased was classed as aggressive.  This is described in the guide as:
You are prepared to accept a higher risk to your capital, with the aim of achieving a higher 
return.The two risk ratings are towards the higher end of the risk scale with adventurous being one 
step below aggressive. The CMC has said that this was too high for Mr and Mrs N.  think 
that this argument is persuasive and on the face of it, is an indication that the advice was 
unsuitable.
Royal London say that Mr N wanted to purchase the JPM Japanese fund within the 
investment bond. The fact find states:
The client has read in the Mail on Sunday about the JP Morgan Japanese fund and 
specifically wished to invest in this fund. 
It is unusual for a client when seeking advice to provide his own opinion on a particular 
investment, but this appears to be what happened when Mr and Mrs N met with their 
advisor. The advisor has written that other investments were recommended but that the 
client felt that the future performance of this particular fund looked good.
As I have said before, I wasnt at the meeting between Mr and Mrs N and their advisor so I 
dont know what was said but on the balance of probability based on what the advisor has 
written on the fact find, Mr N came to the meeting wishing for advice and this included advice 
on whether the JPM Japanese fund was suitable having read about it within the financial 
press.
The issue that I need to consider is whether the fact that this fund had a higher risk rating 
that the one that the advisor had recorded Mr and Mrs N as having is material. As Mr and 
Mrs N had gone to Royal London for advice and the result of the advice is that the advisor 
recommended it, then I have to say that I think this is material and has the impact of 
unsuitable advice being provided. There is nothing in the file that suggests that this 
investment was purchased on an execution only basis therefore advice was provided.
In circumstances where an advisor does not think that a particular investment would be 
suitable for the client then they would normally record this on the fact find. In this complaint, 
the advisor has written that other investments carry a lower management charge however 
the client wanted access to this particular fund. The advisor goes on to say that the 
investments are affordable and within your available resources. 
The advisor did not categorise Mr and Mrs N as insistent clients. This is where the 
consumer wishes to invest in a particular investment which goes against the advice 
provided. There is nothing to suggest that the advisor thought that the JPM Japanese fund 
was unsuitable, but it does appear that the advisor was considering the investment 
suggested by Mr N.
The advisor did recommend one other investment during the meeting and Mr and Mrs N did 
go ahead with this recommendation. This investment is not part of the complaint, but I think 
that it should be noted that in another part of the meeting, the advisor did recommend 
investments based on Mr and Mrs Ns personal circumstances.
The CMC has asked that Mr and Mrs N are compensated for the loss in value. They 
originally invested £10,000 but received £7,131.53 when they closed the investment in 2017. 
In their submission to the service, Royal London have said that the JPN Japanese fund was 
switched to another fund in 2009. This was done by Mr and Mrs N and without advice from 
Royal London. The investigator considered this point but did not think it was relevant. I 
asked for further information on this point and the CMC have said that Mr and Mrs N had 
taken further advice elsewhere and decided to amalgamate their funds. I dont think that this 
has a bearing on my thinking that the initial advice was unsuitable.If we consider that the investment was mis-sold, then the service would look at the 
performance of the investment from the time it was purchased to when it was surrendered. 
The service would consider what alternative investments would have been suitable and 
compare the performance of these against the investment that was mis-sold. 
In summary, I think that Mr N had an investment idea which he brought to the meeting with 
the advisor. I think that the advisor did not take into account the risk rating of the JPN 
Japanese fund and this was not in line with Mr and Mrs N risk profile. As a result, the advice 
was not suitable.  
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs N as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
It is not possible to say precisely what they would have done differently. I have reviewed the 
investigators thoughts on how the position should be corrected and think that it is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Ns investment with that of the
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no
compensation is payable.
pay interest as set out below.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs N in a clear, simple
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
name Status Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date) Additional 
interest 
Aviva 
investment 
bond  
JPM 
Japanese 
FundSurrendered  FTSE 
Private 
Investors 
Income 
Total 
Return 
Index Date of 
investment Date of 
surrendered8% simple 
per year on 
any loss 
from the 
end date to 
payment 
date 
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair valueThis is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs N wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr and 
Mrs Ns circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation
money since the end date.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can
be found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar on our 
website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.  
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman