DRN-2787629
The complaint
Ms S complains that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
What happened
Ms S was given a single loan by Progressive. She borrowed £5,000 in July 2018 and agreed 
to repay the loan in 36 monthly instalments. Part of the loan was used to repay some other 
borrowing. Around 7 months or so after taking out the loan, Ms S faced problems making her 
repayments and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
Ms S mainly said that she had a gambling addiction and should not have been offered the 
loan.
Ms Ss complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators. He felt that Progressive had 
carried out proportionate checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that the results of 
those checks suggested that Ms S was facing problems managing her money as there was 
evidence of substantial gambling showing on one of her bank accounts. So our adjudicator 
thought the lender should have concluded it was unlikely that Ms S would be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable manner. He didnt think the loan should have been agreed and so 
he asked Progressive to pay Ms S compensation.
Progressive didnt agree with that assessment. It mainly said that it discussed the gambling 
transactions shown on the account with Ms S and accepted her assurances that she wasnt 
responsible for the gambling activity shown. 
Another adjudicator looked at the complaint again. She agreed with the outcome reached by 
our first adjudicator, although for slightly different treasons. Her view was that Progressive 
failed to carry out due diligence and shouldnt have accepted Ms Ss explanation that she 
wasnt responsible for the gambling transactions on her account, or the reasons she had 
provided for her mortgage being arrears, without looking further into these matters.
Progressive still didnt agree that it provided this loan irresponsibly and asked for an 
ombudsman review. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Progressive needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
There are some key questions I need to think about when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ss complaint:
Did Progressive carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Ms S was in a position to repay the loan in a way that was sustainable for her  and 
react appropriately to information that those checks showed? 
If Progressive didnt carry out enough checks, what would reasonable and 
proportionate checks have likely shown if theyd been done when they shouldve 
been? 
Was Progressives lending decision fair?
Did Progressive act in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable?  
Progressive should have carried out an affordability check with the focus on the borrower. 
This means that Progressive had to look into Ms Ss particular financial situation and think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would lead to difficulties or result in adverse 
consequences for Ms S.
Progressive had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms S 
would be able repay the loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that Progressive 
had to do, but it could take into account a number of different things including the loan 
amount, the length of the loan term, the repayment amounts and the borrowers overall 
financial circumstances.
I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally be more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and a borrower has to make payments for an extended period).
Progressive was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay any lending it 
provided - not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
borrower could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further.
Keeping all this in mind, Ive carefully considered all the information Ive seen and been told 
and thought about what this means for Ms Ss complaint. 
Our first adjudicator thought that Progressive had carried out proportionate checks  and 
I think thats broadly right. 
Progressive verified Ms Ss employment and monthly income by looking at payslip 
information. It took details from her about her monthly expenditure  and checked these with 
her over the phone to make sure she had included all her usual monthly outgoings. It also 
carried out credit checks which showed Progressive that Ms S had two credit cards at their 
limit and she had fallen behind with her mortgage payments. As part of the application process, Progressive also asked Ms S to provide a bank 
statement. When Ms S provided details of one account to Progressive, it was able to see 
that she also operated a second current account. And when Ms S sent in a bank statement 
showing transactions on that account, it was evident that there was substantial gambling 
activity taking place through the account.
Ive listened carefully to all the call recordings Progressive has provided which have enabled 
me to further understand the course of the application process Ms S went through to obtain 
this loan.
Its fair to say that Progressive was concerned to see the gambling activity revealed on this 
account  it asked Ms S about the gambling (as I would expect a responsible lender to have 
done). And the questions it put to Ms S about this make me think that Progressive 
recognised that this was information that on the face of it would mitigate against lending to 
her. 
Progressive accepted Ms Ss assurance that she wasnt the person responsible for the 
gambling activity shown on the account. In support of this view, Progressive relied on the 
fact that other people were making some payments into the account. And it decided to agree 
Ms Ss loan application.
To my mind, as soon as Progressive could see clear evidence that one of Ms Ss accounts 
(which was in her sole name) was substantially being used to fund extensive gambling, it 
had to consider the following possibilities:
- if it accepted what Ms S had said, then it followed that the account was being 
operated by others for gambling purposes. So this meant that Ms S apparently had 
little or no day to day control over her own account. Progressive shouldve realised 
that this presented a real risk that a significant part of its loan could fall under the 
control of other people and potentially be spent on gambling. The result would be that 
Ms S would not have the benefit of funds for the stated loan purpose and there would 
be a real risk that she wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way since 
spending on this bank account wasnt within her control 
- if Progressive didnt accept what Ms S had said about the way this account was 
being used to fund gambling by other people then it wouldve concluded that she was 
the person responsible for spending on the account. So the clear evidence of the 
extent of her gambling activity meant that it would be irresponsible to provide this 
loan to her.
As Progressive said, it appears that Ms Ss sons and her ex-husband and ex-mother in law 
were paying into the account which was used for the gambling. I've taken carefully into 
account that Progressive felt this supported Ms Ss claim that other people were using this 
account and led it to believe that the gambling activity wasnt attributable to Ms S. 
But it seems at least as likely to me that these payments into the account could have been 
contributions to household expenses from Ms Ss adult children (Ms S had told Progressive 
that they were living at home with her) and financial support from their father and 
grandmother.
And I think Progressive shouldve realised that the payments made into the account by other 
people were substantially less than the payments being made out of the account on 
gambling spending. 
So I think Progressive failed to take properly into consideration the information it had 
gathered which pointed to the clear risk that this loan would not be sustainable for Ms S. And 
that was likely to be the case irrespective of who it thought was responsible for the gambling. So for these reasons Im planning on upholding this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about whether Progressive acted in any other way that wasnt fair 
and reasonable  particularly when Ms S contacted Progressive in February 2019 to say that 
she was finding it hard to make the loan repayment. I've listened carefully to the call 
recording of that discussion. I think Progressive handled the call sympathetically and tried to 
be constructive. I think its fair to say that Ms S failed to disclose her gambling to Progressive 
during that call  she alluded only to the shops having put up prices so that her shopping 
was more expensive. This meant that it was difficult for Progressive to gain a proper 
understanding of her financial situation  and Ms S terminated that call so there was no 
further possibility of a discussion about what Progressive could do to help. Im sorry that Ms 
S found that call frustrating. But I dont think Progressive is at fault for not doing more to help 
Ms S at that stage when she didnt provide information it needed to know. 
And I havent identified any other reasons that mean it would be fair for me to make any 
award, over and above the redress Ive set out below.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Ms S has confirmed that she acepts what Ive said in my provisional decision.
Progressive still disagrees that it provided this loan unfairly. In brief summary, the key points 
it makes are that Ms S benefitted from the loan as Progressive paid the balance left after 
consolidating all her other debts into her main bank account (not the one used for gambling). 
This meant she cleared her other debt and had money available to spend on home 
improvements and its loan didnt fall under the control of anyone else. Also, given that Ms S 
repeatedly failed to disclose her gambling habit to Progressive, it said that making an award 
in favour of Ms S effectively rewards deception - so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive taken all this into account when Ive been thinking about this complaint .
Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision. 
For the reasons I have explained in my provisional decision, I think the clear evidence of 
gambling that Progressive saw shouldve prompted it to decline Ms Ss loan application. 
I dont think the fact alone that this expensive loan was used partly to repay other expensive 
credit means it was fairly provided. 
Overall, I dont think Progressive could reasonably have satisfied itself that providing this 
loan to Ms S wouldnt put her in a worse position given the evidence it saw which suggested 
there was a real risk that Ms S might use (or allow the use of) this loan for gambling 
purposes. 
And I dont consider that risk was sufficiently mitigated by paying the loan into the account it 
did. Progressive hasnt provided me with any new information or said anything else that changes 
what I think about this case.
Id already considered all the main points mentioned above when thinking about my 
provisional decision and addressed all the points mentioned which had a bearing on the 
outcome.
I accept that Progressive takes a different view to me and I appreciate the time and trouble it 
has taken to present its position. 
I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps explain how Ive come to my view.
I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Ms S to repay the principal amount that she borrowed 
when she took out this loan because shes had the benefit of the loan. 
But she has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have been provided to her. 
So, Progressive should take the following steps:
if Progressive has sold this debt it should buy back this loan so it can carry out these 
directions  or otherwise tell the third party debt collector that it needs to carry out 
these steps to put things right 
remove any interest, fees and charges Ms S paid on this loan over and above the 
principal loan amount of £5000
add 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, fees and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement* 
when Progressive works out what it owes Ms S it can first apply this towards 
offsetting any outstanding capital balance Ms S owes on this loan before paying any 
surplus to Ms S. 
If there is still an outstanding balance, then I remind Progressive that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms S
remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ss credit file in relation to this loan 
once it is paid
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive to take off tax from this interest. Progressive 
must give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and direct Progressive Money Limited to take the steps set out above 
to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman