DRN-3154648
The complaint
Mr F complains that esure Insurance Limited held him at fault after another driver made a 
claim against his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Another driver claimed that Mr F had scraped her car and then fled the scene. Mr F denied 
this. esure had an independent engineer assess Mr Fs car. He said there was no evidence 
of recent repairs, though he noted areas of damage. The other insurer sent photographs of 
Mr Fs car to a forensic engineer. He said there was damage to Mr Fs car consistent with 
damage to the other car. esure then accepted liability. 
But Mr F said the marks on his car were just dust or old damage. He provided evidence from 
his employer that he had been at work at the time of the incident. But esure said this made 
no difference to its decision. Mr F said his No Claims Discount (NCD) had been affected, his 
premiums had increased, and he was suffering from stress due to the claim. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought esure 
hadnt satisfactorily investigated the claim and considered the evidence available before 
accepting liability. She thought esure should remove records of the claim from any 
databases where it had been recorded, restore Mr Fs NCD, reimburse him for any increase 
in premiums, with interest, and pay him £200 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
esure replied that the independent engineer had noted two points of damage on Mr Fs car 
and these were consistent with the damage on the other drivers car. esure asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The other driver said Mr F had scraped her car whilst they were negotiating to pass on a 
narrow street. She said she had stopped, and Mr F hit her car as he was unable to stop in 
time. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr F the same as someone else in his position. 
I can see that esure is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr F to take 
over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr F has to follow its advice in connection with 
the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a 
commercial decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. So Ive looked at how esure investigated the claim and 
considered the evidence available in making its decision to accept liability. 
There was no CCTV evidence available and no independent witnesses at the time of the 
accident. In her version of events, the other driver identified the colour and make of a car like 
Mr Fs. But she didnt record Mr Fs car registration at the time. Nor did she describe him 
even though she said hed wound down his window to speak to her. She said her husband 
had later found a car of the same make and colour as she recalled and with recent damage 
in a nearby car park. This was Mr Fs car and so she alleged he had collided with her. 
Mr F denied involvement in the incident. He said he was at work at the time and his car was 
parked. esure initially thought there was no evidence that Mr F had been involved. It thought 
the other driver had seized on Mr Fs car because it was similar and parked nearby.
So I think esure reasonably instructed an independent engineer to assess Mr Fs car for 
damage. He examined the car physically and identified eight areas of damage on Mr Fs 
older car, and no signs of recent repairs. He noted that Mr F would say that all the damage 
to his car was old, but the assessor made no comment on the age of the damage. And he 
recommended that the other car be examined to check for damage consistency. I think that 
is standard industry practice. But esure said the other drivers representatives wouldnt allow 
him to inspect her car. 
But the other insurer sent images of the cars to a forensic assessor who said that there were 
two areas of damage on the cars that were consistent with the alleged incident. One of these 
was a scrape down the drivers side of Mr Fs car that matched one on the other drivers car. 
The other was a thin white line on the cars wing mirror that it said matched a scratch on the 
other cars door handle. It concluded that it was confident that Mr Fs car had caused the 
damage to the other car. 
Mr F said the mark on his wing mirror was dust or chalk, not a scratch. esure then told Mr F 
that a judge would rely on the consistency report if the matter went to court. So it said it had 
no option but to accept liability and record a fault claim against him. Mr F later provided 
evidence from his employer that he had been at work on the day of the accident which 
occurred after hed started work. But esure said this wasnt enough to change its decision. 
I think there are some concerns with esures investigation:
1. The two drivers spoke, but the other driver didnt provide any description of Mr F even 
though this was requested on the accident report form. Given the detail given in the 
description of the event, I think this is concerning and should have been questioned.  
2. Mr Fs car was identified by the other drivers husband as similar to the one involved 
when he looked around locally later in the day. He hadnt witnessed the accident and no 
registration number was recorded at the time. So it could be, as esure thought at the 
time, that he accused Mr F just because hed been in the area and had damage to his 
car.
3. Mr F has since provided evidence in the form of timesheets and a statement from his 
employer that he was at work and parked at the time of the accident. But esure has 
dismissed this without consideration. 
4. The independent engineer inspected the car physically and provided a detailed report. 
But he didnt identify any lines on Mr Fs wing mirror, and none are evident in his 
photographs. So they have been dirt or chalk as Mr F thought. The engineer identified 
eight areas of damage to Mr Fs car but didnt comment on their age, though he did note 
that the car had no recent repairs. The engineer noted that Mr F would maintain that all 
the damage to his car was old standing. But I cant see that esure asked the engineer if 
any of the damage was recent. 5. esure said it had to favour the forensic report as it was expert evidence and a judge 
would rely on it. But it didnt take legal advice to support this view. The forensic report 
was completed based on photographs, rather than a physical inspection. It states that no 
measurements were taken, but the areas of damage appear similar. Mr Fs car had a lot 
of damage, so I think it would be easy to find some that matched the damage claimed by 
the other driver. The report is unsigned and the qualifications of the person completing it 
arent provided. So Im not persuaded that a court would prefer this evidence over the 
independent engineers. 
6. esure paid for repairs other than those allegedly caused by the incident, which I think 
implies that the claim was exaggerated, albeit of low value. esure agrees this was an 
oversight. 
So Im not satisfied that esure sufficiently investigated the claim or considered the available 
evidence before accepting liability. And so I think it hasnt treated Mr F fairly or reasonably. 
And I think it should put things right by removing records of the claim, restoring his NCD, 
compensating him for his financial losses, and paying him compensation for the avoidable 
stress and anxiety caused. 
Our investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr F £200 compensation. I think that 
fairly reflects the impact its decision had on Mr F and its in keeping with our published 
guidance. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Remove the claim from Mr Fs record on any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded and restore Mr Fs NCD. 
2. Reimburse Mr F for any increases in his premium due to the fault claim, adding interest 
to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date liability was accepted to 
the date of settlement. 
3. Pay Mr F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
decision. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires esure to take off tax from this interest. esure must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman