DRN-3711407
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has unfairly 
declined a claim for storm damage under their buildings insurance policy.
For ease, Ive referred to Mr M throughout my decision. Any reference to AA includes the 
actions of its agents.
What happened
Mr M has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by AA Underwriting.
In February 2022, Mr M contacted AA Underwriting when his garden wall came down 
during a storm.
A surveyor attended Mr Ms property and concluded the storm wasnt the main cause 
of the wall collapsing. The surveyors report said:
[] there is a large bush to the garden side which is hanging over the 
boundary line of where the wall would have been. We have tried to move the 
hedge back but it is extremely heavy and is grown outwards and would have 
been pushing at the back of the wall with considerable force.  
It is our considered opinion that the hedge to the rear of the wall would have 
been adding considerable pressure to the wall and has assisted in the failure 
of the wall and pushing it over. 
It is our considered opinion that the storm is not the proximate cause of the 
damage and that any recent weather has merely highlighted pre-existing 
issues.   
Unhappy that AA Underwriting had declined the claim, Mr M brought a complaint to 
this service. An investigator considered it but didnt uphold it.
Mr M provided a report from the builder who rebuilt the wall, which said:
Your wall had not been tied into the north pier by more than 1  inches, you 
as a layman would not know or be able to identify this problem hence the 
need for insurance [] It was only a question of a gale from the right quarter 
and nothing to do with the shrubs in the vicinity. [The] gale was a once in a 
30-year occurrence after all.
The investigator considered this but said her opinion remained the same and that AA 
Underwriting had considered the claim fairly.
Because Mr M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. Its not in dispute that a 
storm occurred on or around the date the damage to Mr Ms wall happened. 
The policy defines a storm as a period of violent weather [with] wind speeds with gusts of 
at least 48 knots (55mph) which are equivalent to Storm Force 10 on the Beaufort Scale. 
And its reasonable to conclude that such conditions could lead to a brick wall coming down. 
However, this complaint centres on whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to 
Mr Ms wall. In determining this Ive looked at the evidence provided by both parties. Mr M 
has provided a report from his builder. In deciding how persuasive this is, Ive had to keep in 
mind that the builder isnt an expert in determining causes of damage in the same way a 
surveyor is. 
I note the builders report focusses on the construction of the wall and the concerns he has 
in respect of this  but adds that the shrub had nothing to do with the wall coming down. 
Whilst Im not questioning the builders credentials to comment on the construction of the 
wall, what needs to be determined here is whether the shrub contributed to its collapse  
and Im satisfied the surveyor is better placed to determine this given its their area of 
expertise.
Ive looked at the photographs which show the shrub is sizeable and very close to the where 
the wall was standing. Given its size and location, Im satisfied it was reasonable for the 
surveyor to conclude it had been growing for some time and would have gradually been 
adding pressure to the wall. Im satisfied based on the surveyors findings the storm 
highlighted a pre-existing issue. And so, I dont think AA Underwritings decision to decline 
the claim was unfair. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr M has cover under any other aspect of the policy and 
from what Ive seen I dont consider there to be such. So, Im satisfied AA Underwritings 
decision to decline the claim is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 October 2022. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman