DRN-4012105
The complaint
Mr B complains about Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Pet Plan (Allianz) declining a claim 
under a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B adopted a dog and bought pet insurance online requesting a start date of 7 October 
2022. He says he took possession of the dog on 9 October. And on 22 October he says the 
dog vomited so he took it to the vet. Over subsequent days the dog needed treatment and 
so Mr B made a claim for vet fees, which Allianz ultimately declined. 
Allianz said the policy should have started on 9 October when Mr B took possession of the 
dog and that meant the vomiting condition arose in the first 14 days of cover. The policy has 
a specific exclusion for any illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover (deferment 
period).
Our investigator explained that the vet notes/history showed that Mr Bs dog attended on 22 
October stating it had been sick three times that week. Regardless of whether the policy 
started on the 7th or 9th October, the vets history shows the first sign of illness started within 
the deferment period. He didnt think it was unfair for Allianz to request of Mr B that the 
correct policy start date should be 9 October.
Mr B disagreed and was also unhappy that his policy had been declared void. He didnt think 
it was fair to expect the public to know that the pet had to be in their possession for cover to 
start and the application process and policy were silent on that. He said, ultimately the claim 
occurred after the 14-day deferment period and Allianz should cover it.
Mr B also raised the voidance of his policy as a point of complaint, but the investigator said 
as that wasnt part of the original complaint Mr B would need to refer that matter to Allianz as 
a separate issue. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue to determine is that about the claim decision  was it fair of Allianz to decline 
the claim based on the deferment exclusion?
The vets notes record the interactions with Mr B relevant to what he said about his dog and 
the vets diagnoses, treatment, and other observations. Within the notes an entry on 13 
October states the dog had been in owners possession (BIOP) since Sunday. That would 
place the date as 9 October as Mr B has consistently stated. But on 22 October its recorded 
that the dog has vomited three times over the week. I know Mr B says the dog only vomited 
on 22 October but thats not whats reflected in the vets notes. If the vets notes are correct 
on the date Mr B took possession of his dog, Im persuaded they accurately reflect Mr B 
saying his dog had vomited three times this week.
A favourable interpretation of this information dates the illness / symptoms as starting 
Monday 17 October being the start of that week (rather than inferring a full week). Im 
persuaded by the vet history / notes that this means the first signs of illness started within 10 
days of Mr Bs preferred policy cover start date of 7 October. As such, this is within the 14-
day deferment period and Allianz was, in my determination, fairly entitled to decline the 
claim. A deferment period is common within the pet insurance industry and is clearly outlined 
as an exclusion in Allianzs policy documents both on the Certificate of Insurance and the 
Insurance Product Information Document.
There are other matters that have arisen in the context of Mr Bs concerns about Allianz and 
include:
1. A subsequent claim that Allianz hasnt paid
2. The policy being declared void
3. The start date of the policy should it be 7 or 9 October and Allianzs insistence that 
he must have possession of the dog before insurance can start.
Its not clear to me whether the policy was in fact declared void (meaning it was treated as if 
it never existed and the premiums paid were returned to Mr B) or cancelled on the basis that 
Mr B cancelled his direct debit to pay the premium due. I agree with the investigator that 
Mr B will need to clarify this issue with Allianz and make a complaint about that matter if hes 
unhappy with Allianzs response.
Equally, at the time Mr B raised his complaint to Allianz about the vomiting claim a 
subsequent claim about the dogs ear was not in issue. It has apparently become an issue 
but will need to be raised with Allianz first and so Mr B will need to do that. It seems to me 
that the status of the policy at that time, together with the payments of premiums will be a 
key consideration. But Im not determining those issues in this decision.
That leaves the start date of the policy. Mr B says when buying the policy online it wasnt 
said at any time the dog needed to be in his possession before the policy could start. 
Typically, its the case that insurers will only provide insurance for something in which the 
policyholder has an insurable interest. In very simple terms this means that the policyholder 
would suffer a loss should the insured thing be damaged or harmed. Under Allianzs policy 
the General Conditions state cover will not start until Mr B takes possession of his pet. In 
Mr Bs case that would be 9 October and for reasons Ive already given the start date is of no 
relevance to the claim about vomiting as it arose in the deferment period. 
I accept its possible Mr B had an insurable interest in the dog prior to taking possession of it 
on 9 October. Im not determining whether Mr B did or didnt have such an interest prior to 9 
October because theres insufficient information of the contract he entered and the terms 
around responsibilities of the contracting parties prior to delivery to Mr B. He signed an 
adoption agreement on 30 September but only took possession on 9 October. While it might 
be preferable for Allianz to make it clear during the sales process that cover wont start until 
the policyholder is in possession of their dog, Im not persuaded its so significant that its a 
failure on Allianzs part not to do so in this particular case. 
Even if Mr B did have an insurable interest before he took possession, I can understand why 
Allianz has a condition in its policy that states cover only starts once the dog is in possession 
of the policyholder. Without being in possession of the dog, Allianz would be exposed to 
risks that the policyholder would have no knowledge of or control over. So, Im not 
persuaded that Allianz treated Mr B unfairly by insisting the start date of the policy should be 9 October 2022. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive made no determination on the issues of the ear claim and 
the status of the policy being void or cancelled. Those are issues Mr B will need to revert to 
Alllianz on and if hes unhappy with its stance will need to exhaust the complaint process. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman