DRN-4230661
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim they 
made on their home emergency insurance policy after their boiler stopped working.
Any reference to Aviva includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have a home emergency policy which is underwritten by Aviva. The policy 
provides cover for their homes plumbing, electrics, security, and central heating system. 
Mr and Mrs C have oil central heating and it stopped working in November 2022. The boiler 
was six years old and serviced regularly; with the last service being June 2022. 
Mr and Mrs C called Aviva and made an appointment for an engineer to attend the following 
day. On the following day Mr and Mrs C called Aviva again to let it know they had oil fired 
heating. They say they were told to reset the boiler and call back if that didnt work. 
Mr and Mrs C were told there were no oil engineers available over the weekend, and on 
Monday they were told Aviva was unable to source the relevant engineer. And so they were 
advised to call the company that carries out the regular service to see if they could attend.
 
Mr and Mrs C arranged for the service company to attend and were told the boiler had water 
inside and they should wait to let it dry to see if the components work. An appointment was 
arranged for 25 November 2022 where Mr and Mrs C were told the boiler needed to be 
replaced. Mr and Mrs C replaced their boiler and told Aviva about it. 
In early December 2022 Aviva accepted the previous boiler was beyond economic repair 
and would pay £200 towards the cost of a new one, as outlined in the terms of the policy. 
But the total cost to Mr and Mrs C was £3,500. Aviva then told Mr and Mrs C it was going to 
cancel the policy, but it still took the premium. So when Mr and Mrs C contacted Aviva to see 
if they had cover they were told the policy would be downgraded but would remain active. 
After that call Aviva cancelled the policy. 
Mr and Mrs C say they were without heating for a period of ten days during a cold weather 
spell. Theyre elderly with some health issues which were affected as a result of the cold. 
They say Aviva renewed the policy on 6 December 2022 and took a payment of £118.41. 
But the policy was then cancelled on 21 December 2022. So Mr and Mrs C complained to 
Aviva.
Aviva apologised that it wasnt able to provide Mr and Mrs C with a suitable appointment with 
an appropriate engineer. It offered £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said they arent able to get another home emergency policy 
since theyve had one cancelled, they only received £200 towards the new boiler, and £100 
for Aviva not being able to send an appropriate engineer. But Mr and Mrs C remain 
dissatisfied so they referred their complaint to this service. Aviva also refunded the premium 
paid in December for the renewal in December 2022 of £118.41.
Our investigator looked into things for them. She upheld some aspects of Mr and Mr Cs 
complaints. She said Mr and Mrs C having to obtain their own engineer would have been 
stressful but the £100 offered by Aviva was fair and reasonable for this part of the complaint. 
She also said Aviva should refund the £118.41 for the premium that was paid before the 
policy was cancelled. She also thought Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs C a further £150 for the 
confusion around the policy being renewed and then cancelled, and the suggestion the 
policy was being downgraded. The investigator said the £200 paid towards the new boiler 
was fair and reasonable and in line with the terms of the policy, so she wouldnt ask Aviva to 
do anything further in this respect. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They said the wording that covers the cancellation isnt obvious 
and refers you from one part to another. They also said the terms and conditions were unfair 
and needed to be challenged. Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred. 
I understand Mr and Mrs C have strong views about what happened, and I can empathise 
with the situation they found themselves in. I have read and considered everything I have 
received carefully and, if I havent specifically referred to a point thats been made it isnt 
because I havent considered it. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome, focusing on the key issues. Which is an approach that reflects 
the informal nature of this service.  
The nature of home emergency insurance is to cover emergency repairs when things go 
wrong. It isnt a maintenance policy. Mr and Mrs C have Home Emergency insurance which 
provides cover, at the event of certain plumbing, drainage, electrics, security, pest, oil fired 
central heating and gas central heating problems.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint is that Aviva didnt provide the service to them that it should have 
done by not sending out an appropriate engineer to look at the problem with their boiler, paid 
only £200 towards the new boiler, has confusing and unfair policy terms, and didnt return 
the premium they paid for a policy which was subsequently cancelled. 
Providing a suitable appointment with an appropriate engineer
The policy says in the event of a breakdown of the boiler, claims will be dealt with by a 
HomeServe approved oil engineer who will repair or replace the relevant parts of your 
boiler. So I understand why Mr and Mrs C were expecting their home emergency insurance 
provider to send an engineer to repair the issue with the boiler.  Aviva explained it was having difficulty sourcing an engineer who could attend, and so 
offered Mr and Mrs C the option of locating their own insurer and Aviva would reimburse the 
cost. They also offered £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience the matter caused. 
Aviva acknowledged it was unable to send an engineer to Mr and Mrs C as it would have 
wanted. And since both parties agree I havent needed to consider if there were issues with 
sourcing an appropriate engineer. Instead, Ive needed to consider whether the 
compensation offered for the overall level of service provided is fair and reasonable. And Ive 
done so below. 
Contribution towards boiler  
Mr and Mrs C paid over £3000 to replace their boiler. Aviva paid them £200 towards the 
cost. The terms of the policy say, when your boiler is declared BER (beyond economic 
repair) we will make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of a new boiler. And so Mr and 
Mrs C were paid what they were entitled to under the terms of the policy. So I cant say 
Aviva havent acted fairly here. 
Mr and Mrs C say the terms of the policy arent clear especially in respect of the cancellation 
of the policy following the boiler being declared BER. Ive thought about this carefully. In the 
policy documents sent to Mr and Mrs C on 8 November 2021 it states there is no cover for 
boilers that have been declared beyond economical repair. 
The terms and conditions in the Policy Coverage section say, When your boiler is declared 
BER, we will make a contribution of £200 towards the cost of a new boiler and your policy 
will be cancelled in accordance with the procedure outline in section A.  Section A confirms 
the underwriter may cancel the policy, in any circumstances stated in the Policy Coverage 
section.  So I can see the terms do refer you from one section of the wording to another but 
this is common in most insurance policies so I dont think I can say Aviva has done anything 
wrong here. 
Premium
Mr and Mrs C were incorrectly charged £118.41 for the policy despite the insurance being 
cancelled. Aviva has agreed to reimburse this amount and I have discussed this further 
below. 
The policy 
Mr and Mrs C arent happy with the terms and conditions of the policy and think they should 
be changed to make them fairer to both parties as they feel the policy favours the insurer. I 
am not able to compel Aviva to amend any policies or contract terms as these are business 
decisions and not within my remit to comment on. 
Conclusion
Mr and Mrs C say they were without hot water and heating for around ten days. I appreciate 
some of the delay was beyond Avivas control. But Aviva does have a duty to progress a 
claim fairly and efficiently. And I think it did. Aviva acknowledged it wasnt able to source an 
appropriate engineer so it offered Mr and Mrs C the option of finding a private engineer, 
which they did. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And meant the 
claim was progressed more quickly than if Mr and Mrs C waited until Aviva was able to 
source someone. But I can see this matter has been stressful for Mr and Mrs C. So Ive needed to think about 
the impact the way the claim was handled and the failures in service have had on Mr and 
Mrs C, when deciding whether the compensation already offered to them is fair. 
Having done so, I can see how being without heating and hot water would have been 
inconvenient and distressing for Mr and Mrs C. Aviva were unable to source an engineer and 
so Mr and Mrs C had to fine one who could attend. So there was a delay when the claim was 
initially reported to Aviva. This meant Mr and Mrs C were without hot water and heating for 
longer than they should have been. 
Ive also taken into account that being without hot water and heating would have been 
particularly difficult for Mr and Mrs C given it was winter at the time, and they both have 
health conditions which were impacted. 
Our investigator suggested Aviva pay Mr and Mrs C a further £150 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused by this matter. Having considered everything, I think this is 
reasonable, given the trouble and upset detailed above. So, I intend to direct Aviva to pay Mr 
and Mrs C £150. This is in addition to the £100 its already offered for the trouble and upset, 
and the £200 BER for the boiler, and £118.41 for the premium.
Putting things right
Aviva should; 
Pay Mr and Mrs B a further £150 for trouble and upset. 
This is in addition to the £200 BER contribution and the £100 trouble and upset 
payment it offered them before they brought their complaint to our service. 
Reimburse Mr and Mrs C the policy premium of £118.41 and add interest to this at a 
rate of 8% simple per year from the date the premium was taken. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I intend to partially uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman