DRN-4023425
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc handled her request for assistance 
after the bank refused to accept some credits into her AA-branded savings account.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Between March and May 2022 Mrs M won a total of £175 (seven amounts of £25) on her 
premium bonds and the money was sent to her AA savings account. Credits related to 
winnings received in previous months had been accepted by the bank and successfully 
credited to the account. But these later payments werent similarly credited because they 
hadnt originated from her designated, linked account. 
The bank messaged Mrs M about this in May 2022 and she subsequently shared some 
information with it to try to help it trace the money. But the bank was unable to find all of 
the money until after Mrs M referred a complaint to this service. At that point it realised, 
despite what it had told Mrs M previously, that all the money was sitting in one of its 
holding accounts. In February 2023 the bank told this service it had sent the £175 to 
Mrs Ms designated bank account. It also offered to pay 8% simple interest on the money 
as well as an additional £150 compensation.
Our investigator thought the banks offer was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But Mrs M, via a representative, disagreed  she felt a compensation award of £750 to 
£1,500 to be more appropriate given the banks failure to put things right sooner and the 
way it had treated her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for much the same 
reasons. I think the banks offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms account say credits can only be accepted from the 
designated, linked account. And the seven transactions that made up the £175 relating to 
this complaint did not come from such an account. So I dont think it was wrong of the bank 
to reject those payments. Its not clear to me why previous payments from premium bond 
winnings were accepted into the account. But I dont think this means the later payments 
should also have been accepted. And the banks records indicate it wrote to Mrs M to 
explain what had happened.
What I do find disappointing is that the bank wasnt able to resolve this matter promptly and 
its not clear to me how or why it got things so wrong after Mrs M got in touch to query the 
returned payments. But I dont think, as Mrs Ms representative seems to be suggesting, that 
there was anything sinister going on here or that the bank was deliberately obstructive in the 
way it handled matters. Im pleased the bank has now found and paid the money to Mrs M  
I say this given there has been no suggestion the money has not now been received. And 
the bank has offered to add interest calculated at 8% simple per year from the transfer dates 
to the date of settlement. I think that represents fair and reasonable compensation given that 
Mrs M was without the use of her £175 for some months and this was, latterly at least, due 
to mistakes made by the bank. 
I dont have a recording of the phone call Mrs Ms representative has referred to, but I accept 
the possibility the bank didnt handle matters as well as it should have done. I say that, not 
least, given the mistakes it admits to having made including that it initially told Mrs M it had 
only received £50 and this had been returned to sender but it subsequently found that all of 
the money was still in its holding account. Ive considered carefully what Mrs Ms 
representative has said about the impact the banks actions and/or inactions had on her. But, 
overall, I think £150 fairly compensates her for any distress and or inconvenience she was 
caused in pursuing this matter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay 
Mrs M:
Interest on the £175 calculated at 8% simple per year from the date each of the 
seven payments was sent to the bank, to the date of settlement, and;
£150 compensation.
If Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from the interest award, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should 
also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should settle the matter within 28 days of receiving notification of 
Mrs Ms acceptance of my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman