DRN-2399684
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the support he received from Lex Autolease Ltd.
What happened
Mr M entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease for the supply of a car in 
March 2020. The hire agreement included an initial rental of £6,936.19 followed by 35 
rentals of £578.02.
The Government announced the UK would enter a lockdown on 23 March 2020 due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. The National Health Service (NHS) contacted Mr M and said he was at 
high risk of severe illness if he caught Covid-19. So, he was advised to stay at home. 
Mr M contacted Lex Autolease because he says he wasnt able to use the car. He said that it 
was unfair for him to continue with an agreement for a car he was unable to use, and that 
the situation was completely out of his control. To resolve things, Mr M requested 
Lex Autolease:
Freeze rentals for the total period the Government imposed the lockdown for high 
risk individuals. The hire agreement should be extended by this period so that he 
could get full use of the car; or
Accept return of the car with a deduction for usage. At that point Mr M had covered 
less than 100 miles.
Lex Autolease responded to say it wasnt feasible to accept the return of the car without the 
early termination charge or for it to waive the rentals for the time Mr M was advised to stay at 
home. Lex Autolease also initially spoke to Mr M about taking a payment deferral  one of 
the options the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had set out in its guidance for car finance 
firms in respect of Covid-19. Mr M wasnt having difficulties making the rental payment, so 
this didnt resolve things for him. 
A few weeks after he first contacted Lex Autolease, Mr M said he would accept a payment 
deferral while his complaint that had been referred to our service was considered. He hadnt 
made any payments up until this point. And Lex Autolease had written to him about the 
missed rentals. But as the arrears were over £8,000, Lex Autolease wanted to explore other 
options.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She acknowledged Mr M was 
in an unfortunate position, in that he was advised to stay at home. But she didnt think 
Lex Autolease had acted unfairly by holding him to the terms of the hire agreement. She also 
noted the FCA guidance didnt set out that businesses should offer payment waivers for 
customers who were advised to stay at home. 
Our investigator also thought about the discussions between Mr M and Lex Autolease about 
the payment deferral. But she noted the guidance was intended for customers in temporary 
financial difficulties as a result of Covid-19. Mr M wasnt in financial difficulties as a result of 
Covid-19 so she didnt think the FCAs guidance on payment deferrals applied. Taking all 
this into account, she didnt think Lex Autolease acted unfairly by failing to put a payment 
deferral in place. 
Finally, our investigator thought about the impact of the missed rental payments on Mr Ms 
credit file. Lex Autolease had said it would remove adverse data from Mr Ms credit file. And 
she thought this was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree with the assessment. He said he had concerns with Lex Autoleases 
record keeping and that this impacted the investigators assessment. He said Lex Autolease 
acted unfairly by placing the account in arrears. And that he shouldnt have been precluded 
from more assistance just because he wasnt in financial difficulties. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure Mr M and Lex Autolease that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment 
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on 
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr M hired his car under a regulated consumer hire agreement. And our service is able to 
consider complaints about these sorts of agreements. 
Im very sorry to hear Mr M was advised to stay at home for a long time during the 
pandemic. It cant have been easy, and I appreciate the time and effort it has taken him to 
bring his complaint to our service. 
I think the main issue I need to decide is whether Lex Autolease acted unfairly by refusing to 
agree to Mr Ms initial requests for support when he was advised to stay at home. 
Ive firstly taken a look at the hire agreement. The agreement sets out that there is a 
minimum hire period of 36 months. While the agreement says its not cancellable under the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974, there are terms in relation to cancelling prior to delivery of the 
car. And there are terms, for some customers, in relation to cancelling within 15 days of the 
date the agreement was entered into. But, from what I can see, those circumstances dont 
apply here. 
The agreement does set out that if the customer wants to end the agreement early, they 
should contact Lex Autolease. It says Lex Autolease would work out what was owed. I think 
this is what Lex Autolease refers to as the early termination charge. The agreement doesnt, 
however, say that customers can exit the agreement and only pay for the use up until they 
hand back the car  which is one of the options Mr M put forwards. The agreement doesnt have any provisions for the waiving of rental payments or for an 
extension as per Mr Ms other suggestion.  
Taking all this into account, I dont think Lex Autolease acted unfairly by failing to offer Mr M 
something that was provided for in the agreement. 
  
Ive also thought about the guidance that was issued by the FCA titled Motor finance 
agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance was issued 
around the time Mr M asked for support because of the impact on him of Covid-19. I think 
the key point here is that the guidance sets out the FCAs expectation that firms provide, for 
a temporary period only, exceptional and immediate support to customers facing payment 
difficulties due to circumstances arising out of coronavirus.
Mr M wasnt facing payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. So, the guidance wasnt 
intended for him. There was already guidance in place for dealing with consumers who were 
unable to meet their financial commitments before Covid-19, but this again was for 
consumers in financial difficulties so didnt apply to Mr M. 
Ive next gone on to think about if there was any other reason why Lex Autolease should 
have offered something else to Mr M. He was in a difficult position where hed been advised 
by the Government not to leave his home. So of course, I can understand why hed be 
unhappy to be paying for a car he wasnt able to fully utilise. And some businesses may 
have chosen to waive rental payments or to allow an early hand back of the car. But given 
theres no rules or guidance that says Lex Autolease should have offered this to Mr M, I 
dont find I have the grounds to say that it acted unfairly by failing to do so. I do understand 
this will disappoint Mr M. 
Ive thought about what else happened here. Theres some dispute over when Mr M first 
spoke to Lex Autolease but I dont think its necessary to bottom this out to reach a fair 
decision. So, Im not going to go over that here. 
There was also some confusion around whether there was a payment deferral in place, and 
what impact this would have had on Mr M. It looks like Lex Autolease initially advised that a 
payment deferral would be available to Mr M. And a few weeks later it said it wanted to 
explore other options given the arrears on the account. I think, generally, Lex Autolease was 
trying to assist Mr M during an unprecedented time. But given his particular circumstances, 
and that the deferral was never going to resolve things, I think this could have been handled 
better. Lex Autolease was focussed on obtaining an income and expenditure form, but the 
issue was not with Mr Ms ability to pay the agreement. Had things gone differently, 
Lex Autolease mightve helped to prevent the account going into arrears. I can understand 
why Mr M wouldve been unhappy to receive a letter, albeit one that was likely sent 
automatically, saying he was in arrears, when he was in discussions about a suitable way 
forward. 
However, since those initial conversations, I note that Mr M brought the account up-to-date. 
And Lex Autolease has agreed to ensure there is no adverse data recorded on his credit file 
in relation to the missed rental payments. In the round, I think this was a fair step for 
Lex Autolease to take. 
All things considered, while I sympathise with Mr M, Im not going to direct Lex Autolease to 
take any further action. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman