DRN-2521325
The complaint
Mr L complains that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked and then closed his bank account. 
What happened
Mr L had an account with Monzo.
Monzo decided to review how Mr L was operating his account. Whilst it conducted its review 
the bank blocked Mr Ls account. The bank released Mr Ls closing balance of just over £5 
on 26 July 2020. Following this Monzo closed Mr Ls account.
Mr L complained to Monzo about closing his account. He explained hed been a loyal 
customer of the bank and had maintained his account properly. And asked the bank to 
reopen his account. Monzo said it had acted in accordance with the terms of the account 
and relevant regulations. And wouldnt reopen Mr Ls account. However, Monzo accepted it 
should have dealt with Mr Ls complaint sooner than it did. And paid him £50 compensation.
Mr L wasnt happy with this response, so he brought his complaint to our service where an 
investigator considered it. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She said Monzo 
hadnt done anything wrong when it reviewed and closed Mr Ls account. And that it wasnt 
obliged to provide Mr L with an explanation for why it no longer wanted him as a customer.
Mr L didnt accept the investigators view. He wants the bank to provide a proper 
explanation. And to reopen his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ls complaint is that he wants Monzo to reopen his bank account. He says he 
hasnt done anything which wouldve caused Monzo to close his account and always 
maintained his account properly. So, he says Monzo has treated him unfairly when it closed 
his account.  
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Monzo has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations 
Monzo may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If Monzo didnt 
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Monzo to block Mr Ls account. Monzo has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr L inconvenience, I 
cant say Monzo treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. 
I understand Mr L wants Monzo to explain the reason it applied the block to his account. But 
Monzo doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. Its under 
no obligation to tell Mr L the reasons behind the account review and block, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr L this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ls account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
Monzo closed Mr Ls account immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, in my view that 
was reasonable given the banks concerns about how Mr L was operating his account. So, it 
was entitled to close the account as it has already done. And I wont be asking the bank to 
reopen Mr Ls account. Ive also noted that Mr L had at least one other bank account. And 
that it returned Mr Ls closing balance to him on the same day the account was closed. So, I 
think the impact on Mr L would have been reduced. 
I can also see that Monzo accepted it should have dealt with Mr Ls complaint sooner than it 
did and that there were delays before it addressed his concerns about the account closure. I 
can see that the bank has paid Mr L £50 compensation for any inconvenience this caused 
him. I think this is fair. So, I wont be asking the bank to do anything more.  
In summary, I realise Mr L will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont believe Monzo 
acted unreasonably or treated him unfairly in taking the actions it did.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman