DRN-3814774
Complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) closed her account and failed to return all 
of the funds in it.
Background
In January 2022, Monzo notified Mrs O that it no longer wished to offer her an account and 
told her that it would be closing her current account. After Monzo closed Mrs Os account it 
returned some of the funds to source. Mrs O was unhappy with both the closure and the 
failure to return all of the funds in her account and complained. Monzo didnt uphold Mrs Os 
complaint. As Mrs O remained dissatisfied, Mrs O referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Os concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mrs O unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs O disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards           
Mrs O and so Im not upholding her complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mrs O, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And Monzo decided it didnt wish to have 
Mrs O as a customer. Closing a customers account, is a commercial decision that a bank is 
entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its reasons for that decision. Equally, 
having looked at matters Im also satisfied that Monzo was entitled to take the action it did in 
line with the terms and conditions of Mrs Os accounts.
I know Mrs O remains unhappy that Monzo hasnt returned the funds all of the funds that 
were in her account at the time it was closed. But it looks like Monzo has returned all of the 
funds to the institution that sent them in the first place  in order words they were returned to 
source. This isnt the same as being returned to the person who sent them in the first place.
Mrs O may be unhappy with this. But she is free to contact the financial institution which the 
funds were returned to if she still feels that she is entitled to them. In any event, and most 
importantly, I dont think that Monzo did anything wrong or unfair when it returned the funds 
in question to the financial institution that sent them.
Finally, I appreciate that it took a period of time for Mrs O to be provided with copy 
statements once her account was closed. I can understand why this must have been 
frustrating. But it looks like Monzo did send the statements much earlier than Mrs O says 
she received them. Its possible that Monzo had to send further copies because the original 
ones werent received. But, in any event, as I cant see how Mrs O lost out because of any 
delay, Im not upholding this part of the complaint either.   
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think Monzo acted unfairly towards   
Mrs O and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for     
Mrs O. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell appreciate 
why I think Monzo hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably towards her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman