DRN-2926779
The complaint
Mrs F complains Nationwide Building Society mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to her alongside a credit card in 1999. 
What happened
Our adjudicator didnt think PPI had been mis-sold. And she thought that Nationwides offer 
to refund some of the commission it received from Mrs Fs PPI premiums was a fair way to 
settle the complaint. 
Mrs F disagreed with that view. She said once Nationwide received her credit card 
application, it should have been obvious she was not eligible for the cover and so it should 
not have processed her PPI payments. 
Mrs F also told us that she didnt need the PPI cover because she had 52 weeks sick pay 
from her employer. At the point of sale, she had been with her employer for just over three 
years. Our adjudicator asked Mrs F to obtain some information to confirm that level of sick 
pay. I can see that Mrs F has gone to some trouble to obtain that information from her 
previous employer. I am grateful for her efforts in that regard. 
Upon considering the information provided by Mrs F, I can see that she would have been 
entitled to 36 weeks full pay because she had been employed for more than three years, but 
less than five years at the point of sale. 
As Mrs F did not agree with our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs F, but I dont think PPI was mis-sold. Im satisfied Nationwides 
offer to refund some of Mrs Fs PPI premiums is a fair way to settle the complaint. Ill explain 
why below. 
Nationwide says the PPI was sold to Mrs F through the post. Mrs F disagreed with that. She 
initially told us that the cover had been sold on the telephone. She told us she did not recall 
precise details of the conversation other than she would have been asked how she would 
make her repayments if she lost her job before being pushed to taking out the PPI policy. 
Mrs F later said that although she completed a postal application form, completion of that 
form had followed a call from Nationwide in which she was told PPI was compulsory. 
I wouldnt usually expect PPI to be sold in the manner described by Mrs F  in that a 
telephone call would be made to her prior to the type of postal application she made. I dont 
doubt that what Mrs F told us is what she honestly recalls about the sale. But I also note that 
she said she couldnt recall the precise details of that telephone conversation, and she set 
out what she thought would have happened. So I dont think I can rely on Mrs Fs 
recollection of that call. Memories do fade over time and it is difficult to remember precisely 
what happened over 20 years ago, which is when this PPI cover was sold. 
Looking at the application form, I dont think the wording suggests PPI was compulsory or a 
requirement of the card. There were two equally prominent boxes to tick  one to say Mrs F 
wanted cover and another to say she did not. I can see Mrs F ticked to indicate she wanted 
a policy. Im satisfied that if she didnt want a policy, it would have been clear to her to tick 
the no box. 
Mrs F said she wasnt eligible for the cover. Looking at the terms and conditions of this 
policy, I can see that the eligibility criteria were that: 
Mrs F be aged 18 or over and under 60;
She be permanently resident in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man;
She be in employment;
She had a Nationwide credit card. 
From the evidence before me, I am satisfied Mrs F was eligible for the PPI policy. 
Nonetheless, when it sold PPI to Mrs F, Nationwide had to give her enough information 
about the PPI cover so she could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. 
That information should have been clear, fair and not misleading.  Looking at the application 
form, I can see the basic cost of the cover was set out, but I cant see that any of the policys 
exclusions or limitations were mentioned.
So I accept that Nationwide probably didnt tell Mrs F everything it should have done about 
the PPI. But that doesnt mean I can automatically uphold the complaint. I next have to look 
at whether Mrs F would have acted differently if Nationwide had told her everything it should 
have done about the PPI. To help me decide on that point, Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought carefully about what we know about Mrs Fs 
personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed made a claim on the PPI, 10% of Mrs Fs credit card balance would 
have been repaid for every month she was off sick from work, or if she was made redundant. 
Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. 
I know that Mrs F had some fairly generous sick pay from her employer. But the PPI would 
have lasted for longer than her full pay and redundancy pay. And with the policy in place, 
she could have used her sick pay or redundancy pay on her other essential expenditure at 
what could have no doubt been a very difficult time if Mrs F was out of work.
I understand Mrs F was in good health at the point of sale. So I dont think she would have 
been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual about her employment circumstances that would have made it more 
difficult for her to make a claim if she needed to.
On that basis, I can see how the cover could have been helpful to Mrs F if she was out of 
work. I dont think shed have acted differently if Nationwide had given her more or better 
information about the cover. So I agree with our adjudicator that PPI was not mis-sold, which 
means Nationwide does not have to refund all of Mrs Fs PPI premiums.  
Undisclosed commission   However, Nationwide has refunded some of the cost of PPI to Mrs F. Thats because it got a 
high level of commission and profit share from Mrs Fs premiums  more than 50%. 
Nationwide didnt tell Mrs F about that level of commission and it has accepted its failure to 
make that disclosure was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium, and I think that offer is fair in this case. It is in line 
with the guidance set by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold, so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs F. But it does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and 
profit share that it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand that 
payment has already been made to Mrs F, in which case, Nationwide Building Society will 
not need to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman