DRN-3760148
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC is asking him to repay a bounce back loan he says he 
didnt apply for.
What happened
In August 2020, an online application was made for a bounce back loan (BBL) using Mr Ms 
details and listing him as the sole trader behind this company. The loan was granted and 
£50,000 was paid into the bank account that had also been created for the business. The 
way the loan was set up meant that repayments didnt start straight away.
Lloyds wrote out to Mr M when the first repayment was due and then sent subsequent letters 
when no payments were received. He complained to Lloyds that he hadnt taken out this 
loan and had no idea it existed. Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint as it said the details in the 
application matched his and it could see that a large amount of the loan had been moved 
from the businesss account into Mr Ms personal account, where it was spent. It also had a 
call recording where it said Mr M had phoned in regarding the loan.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. He said hed been the victim of identity theft and 
hed never taken this loan. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She wasnt 
persuaded that the evidence showed any third-party involvement, especially as Mr M 
couldnt explain why hed received the majority of the loan into his current account and spent 
it. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr M has said that the bank hasnt proved he took out the BBL. But it has shown that the 
application was completed online from his IP address, that his home address and mobile 
phone number were given and that it posted the card and PIN for the account to this 
home address. It also has a call recording where someone  who sounds like Mr M  
calls in from Mr Ms mobile number to discuss unblocking the card associated with the 
loan after its taken out. And this person passes security and mentions Mr Ms current 
account.
In just over nine weeks Mr M received over £45,000 into his current account from the 
BBL. Looking back at his current account statements, hes spent the majority of the 
previous eight months overdrawn and his highest account balance is under £3,000 in 
credit. The second payment he receives from the BBL is for £15,000, so there is no way 
this could be missed. Mr M has told us he thought the payments were due to some kind 
of error, but has admitted he didnt report it to anyone.
We can see from Mr Ms statements that he spent all of the money by the end of 
December 2020. He hasnt provided any plausible explanation for how or why he spent 
more than £45,000 from a supposedly unknown and unexpected source over such a 
short time. Or why he didnt report the funds to the bank at the time.
While some payments are made directly from the BBL account, as above, over £45,000 
of the £50,000 borrowed is sent to Mr Ms current account and over a nine-week period. 
Its difficult to understand why a fraudster would take out a loan in Mr Ms name and then 
give him the money. Or why they would do this over such a long period, considering if 
Mr M had acted as I wouldve expected, and reported the unexplained credits, the loan 
wouldve been shut down within days of being opened and the fraudster wouldve 
received no benefit at all from it. 
Considering the evidence hold, Im satisfied Lloyds has acted fairly in this case. The 
evidence suggests its highly unlikely a third-party took out the BBL. So I cant say its 
wrong for Lloyds to be pursuing Mr M for repayment of this debt. Bar the email address, 
all the details on the loan match Mr Ms and the debit card, which was used, was sent to 
his home. While I accept the BBL was taken out for a business, as the business is 
reported as a sole trader with Mr Ms details, he would still be seen as the party 
responsible for the debt. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman