DRN-2348004
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she 
was the victim of a scam.
What happened
Miss M was looking to buy a particular handbag and found one listed for sale on an online 
auction website. She says she checked the sellers account and it had a number of good 
reviews and positive feedback from buyers, so she contacted the seller and agreed to buy 
the handbag. She then made a number of payments to the seller between June and July 
2020, totalling £5,200, as set out below:
Date Amount
3 June 2020 £1,000
8 June 2020 £900
15 June 2020 £1,900
22 June 2020 £500
29 June 2020 £500
6 July 2020 £400
The seller then told Miss S the handbag had been sent to her, but it was never delivered and 
the seller stopped responding to Miss M. Miss M then reported this to Barclays as a scam 
and asked that the payments be refunded.
Barclays investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments as it said Miss M had willingly 
sent them and it felt it was a civil dispute between her and the seller. Miss M wasnt satisfied 
with Barclays response, so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think Barclays should have to 
refund the payments. They thought the payments wouldnt have appeared particularly 
unusual or out of character for Miss M so it was reasonable that Barclays hadnt stopped or 
asked further questions about them. And they felt Barclays had done all it could to try to 
recover the payments. Miss M disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in not refunding the payments. Ill 
explain why below.
Its not in dispute that Miss M authorised each of the payments. She says she made them 
herself, either by going in branch or by using her online banking. So while I recognise that 
she didnt intend for the money to be sent to scammers, under the Payment Service 
Regulations, the starting position is that she is liable for the payments and Barclays doesnt 
have to refund them.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Barclays 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Barclays should have identified that Miss M was potentially 
at risk of fraud as a result of any of the payments.
I dont think any of the payments were for particularly large amounts or were significantly 
larger than the rest of the transactions on the account in the previous six months. They also 
didnt leave the balance of the account at unusual levels compared with where it had been in 
the previous months. So I dont think the payments will have looked particularly out of 
character or unusual based on Miss Ms previous account activity. And while Miss M did 
make a number of payments, I dont think these were done in such a short period of time, or 
we so obviously connected, as to be suspicious. And so I think its reasonable that Barclays 
didnt identify that Miss M was potentially at risk of fraud as a result of any of the payments 
or carry out any further checks before processing them.
As the first payment was made in branch, Barclays had the opportunity to ask Miss M about 
it anyway. And its not clear what questions, if any, it did ask or what information it was 
given. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Miss M told Barclays anything about the 
payment which should have alerted it to the possibility that she was at risk of fraud. And if 
Barclays had asked the kind of questions Id expect in these circumstances, I think it would 
have found out that the payment was going to another account in Miss Ms name  which 
would have reassured it there was little risk.
So I think Barclays acted reasonably in processing the payments and I dont think anything it 
could reasonably have been expected to do could have prevented Miss M losing her money.
Miss M has said she asked whether she would be covered if this was a scam when she 
made the first payment in branch, and was told she would. But she hasnt been able to give 
us much detail about what she asked and what she was told. And I think its unlikely she was 
told she would be covered in all circumstances, as no banks offer this kind of protection. So I 
dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund her on this basis.
Ive also considered whether Barclays could have done more to try to recover the money, 
once it had been told of the scam. Wed expect a business to take reasonable steps to try to 
recover the money from the bank the money was sent to. But the bank the money was sent 
to has told us the money Miss M sent was removed from the receiving account straight 
away. So it wouldnt have been possible for Barclays to recover the money.I sympathise with the position Miss M has found herself in. I appreciate how she feels about 
this case and that my decision will come as a disappointment to her. But, for the reasons set 
out above, I think Barclays has acted reasonably in processing the payments and I dont 
think it needs to refund the payments to her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman