DRN-2023487
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Woolwich (Barclays) gave him 
unsuitable advice to pay into an investment fund which failed to perform causing him 
financial loss. 
What happened
Mr C invested into the fund in 1996. He made regular payments into the fund and had 
invested a sum of £4230 by November 2015. His investment was then transferred to 
Barclays Smart Investor and he continued to contribute to this fund until the account was 
closed in January 2018  by then he had invested a further £750. The fund returned a total 
of £7906 in February 2018. He wasnt happy with the performance of the fund and he says 
this is at least £11,000 short of what it should have been. He says he was given unsuitable 
advice to invest in this fund.
Mr C complained to Barclays in July 2019. They say that due to the length of time that has 
passed since the account was opened, they no longer have the account opening 
documentation and are unable to say that the account was suitable. They offered to 
compensate him by comparing the plan's performance with that of a no-risk benchmark plus 
the Bank of England Base Rate to be applied. They say according to their calculations; Mr C 
is not at a loss and so there is no payment to be made. They acknowledge that they have 
delayed in dealing with his complaint and offered him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
The complaint was referred to this service, but our investigator concluded the same as 
Barclays. He felt the approach to redress and the distress and inconvenience payment was 
fair and in line with the award this service would give. Our investigator also considered 
whether the complaint was in our jurisdiction as the initial fund was opened in 1996. He 
concluded that the complaint was within three years of when the Mr C ought reasonably to 
have known he had cause for complaint so this was a complaint he could look at. Barclays 
also didnt object to our service considering this. 
Mr C didnt agree with the redress, so this has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited documentary evidence available on this complaint due to the length of time 
that has passed since the event complained of. But Ive assessed all information available 
from both parties and having done so, Ive reached the conclusion I am upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Jurisdiction
What I can and cant look at is set out by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
along with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules. These 
can be found on the FCAs website. Ombudsmen are required to work within the confines of 
these Rules and must consider these before the merits of any case are looked at.
The DISP rule 2.8.2R(2) says that:-
we cannot consider a complaint if it is made more than six years after the 
event complained of, or if later,
three years from the date which the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably 
to have become aware, that they had cause for complaint.
Mr Cs complaint is about the advice given to him when the account was opened in 1996. 
He didnt complain to Barclays until July 2019, so I am satisfied that the complaint was 
made more than six years after the event complained of. 
The second part of the rule is that the complaint must be brought within three years of the 
date which the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, 
that they had cause for complaint. So, I have thought about when Mr C knew or ought 
reasonably to have known. The account losses crystallised when his account was closed 
in January 2018. It was at this point that he says the performance of the fund prompted 
him to question the account hed been advised to invest in. I am satisfied that it was 
reasonable for Mr C to have become aware at this point that he had cause for complaint 
and so I consider his complaint being made to Barclays in July 2019 to be in time. 
Performance
Barclays no longer have the point of sale information, but Ive been provided with some 
literature that although was produced some time after the fund was invested in, largely 
reflects the investment. Its purpose was to provide a 5-7 year investment plan to 
maximise long term capital growth whilst providing income from investing in UK based 
companies. The literature says, The Fund is aimed at investors who see it as a 
convenient way of investing for growth in the UK equity market, over the medium to long-
term (ie 5-7+ years), and with less risk than investing directly in only a small number of 
UK companies. There is no guarantee as to its performance noted.
I take on board the points Mr C makes about the fund following the FTSE All Share index, 
but that isnt the case. It is benchmarked to the FTSE so it can be used as a point of 
reference to compare with similar funds. This doesnt guarantee the performance of the 
fund and its unlikely due to the risk involved and the impact of external factors on the 
market that any specific guarantee would have been given - I havent seen anything that 
would suggest there was. Without a specific written guarantee, as a service we wouldnt 
consider performance related issues. 
Suitability of advice
I am able to consider whether the initial advice to open the account and any advice to 
make further investments were suitable. If we feel it was unsuitable, we look to put the 
consumer back in the position they would have been had they not been given the 
investment advice. It is reasonable in these situations where the initial advice was given 
more than twenty years ago, to no longer have the point of sale documentation. Without 
point of sale documents, it would be difficult to say with any certainty what advice was given. However, in this complaint, I do not need to make a finding as to the suitability of 
the advice because Barclays has already accepted that they cannot be sure the advice to 
invest in this fund was suitable for Mr C. 
 
Putting things right
My role here is to look at the approach taken to put Mr C back in the position he would have 
been in had the advice not been given and to ensure that this is fair. Barclays approach is 
based on the Mr C having not invested at all as initial documents detailing suitability are not 
available. 
To put things right, our usual approach would be that Barclays should compare the return of 
Mr Cs investment to the benchmark recommended by this service for no-risk based 
investments dating back to this period  this is the Bank of Englands base rate. If this 
comparison shows a loss, Barclays must pay this loss and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this figure from the date Mr C closed his investment to the date of settlement.
Barclays have also agreed to pay £200 to compensate Mr C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the errors and delay in dealing with his complaint. This is in 
addition to any amount calculated for his investment loss. I would consider this amount in 
line with what this service would have awarded.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading 
as Woolwich. They should compensate Mr C as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman