DRN-3261154
The complaint
The executors of the estate of the late Mrs H complain that Financial Administration Services 
Limited (trading as Fidelity) has caused a delay in paying out the proceeds of Mrs Hs stocks 
and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). The estate says Fidelity failed to properly 
review the instruction form, didnt understand Scottish Law, and made several requests for 
further documentation which, it says, were unnecessary.  
The estate says those delays have caused losses of around £15,000 to £20,000 because by 
the time the payment was made the value of the ISA had significantly reduced. 
What happened
The late Mrs H sadly passed away in November 2018.
On 19 November 2018 the representative acting on behalf of the estate wrote to Fidelity and 
asked for a valuation of her ISA. 
On 19 December 2018 Fidelity wrote back to the estate and asked it to provide a certified 
copy of the death certificate. It also included a copy of its guide for executors and 
administrators with that letter.   
On 6 September 2019 the estates representative provided a copy of the certificate of 
confirmation dated 2 September 2019.  The representative indicated he would come back to 
Fidelity when he had the executors instructions.  
On 10 September 2019 Fidelity provided a valuation of the investment. 
Then on 15 October 2019 the representative for the estate sent an inherited ISA allowance 
form instructing Fidelity to transfer the ownership of the ISA to the late Mrs Hs husband. 
Fidelity wrote to the estate on 17 October 2019 and said that it was unable to process the 
instruction because the form was incomplete, as the declaration hadnt been signed.
The estate sent a new signed copy of the form dated 2 November 2019 which was received 
by Fidelity on about 8 November 2019 according to the date stamp. 
Fidelity wrote back on 11 November 2019 and raised a query about the name of one of the 
executors. It asked for further confirmation that the person who had signed the relevant 
section was an executor with a similar name. 
The estates representative contacted Fidelity on 29 November 2019 and said it was aware 
of the issue with the name mismatch but asked for the transfer instruction to be paused as 
the executors were rethinking their instructions. 
The estate then wrote to Fidelity on 28 January 2020 and gave instructions for the ISA to be 
sold. It said that the trustees had changed their mind about transferring to the surviving 
spouse. The estate explained that the surviving spouse was one of the trustees but had lost 
capacity. It provided medical evidence in support and asked Fidelity to confirm it was happy 
to proceed with the signatures of the three remaining trustees. The estate also asked Fidelity 
to provide the relevant form to sell the late Mrs Hs investment. 
Fidelity wrote to the estate on 30 January 2020 enclosing the relevant form for selling the 
investment and noting the health issue relating to the surviving spouse. It said that this could 
delay dealing because of restrictions placed on the account and referred to the provision of a 
power of attorney, or one of the alternatives which it set out, by the estate. 
The estate completed the form instructing Fidelity to sell the ISA on 26 February 2020 which 
was received by Fidelity on 28 February 2020. Its covering letter explained that as one of the 
trustees lacked capacity, that individual couldnt sign the form. So, it had been signed by the 
remaining three trustees.
On 2 March 2020 Fidelity wrote to the estate indicating that it required a power of attorney or 
alternative as referred to in its previous letter.   
The estate replied in a letter dated 4 March (and received on 6 March) stating its position 
that a Power of Attorney (POA) wasnt required by Scottish Law.
Fidelity responded on 6 March 2020 and reiterated its request for a POA. 
The estate then sent a letter on 11 March (received on 12 March) explaining that under 
Scottish Law an executor was also a trustee and that Scottish Law allowed a majority of 
trustees to sign a form such as the instruction to sell the investment.
Fidelity sought advice and having confirmed that was the case, it processed the instruction 
with the ISA being sold on 20 March 2020.    
The executors of the estate complained to Fidelity in June 2020 about the delay in 
processing its instructions. 
Fidelity upheld the estates complaint in part. It said it wasnt made aware of the rules under 
Scottish Law, with regards to incapacitated executors, until 4 March 2020. Fidelity 
acknowledged it should have asked for further guidance when it received that letter. But 
unfortunately, it didnt do so until it received a further letter from the estate dated 11 March 
2020. 
Fidelity looked at what the outcome would have been, if it had asked for guidance at that 
earlier stage, and concluded that the delay hadnt caused any financial loss because the 
value of the ISA would have been lower on the relevant, earlier, date. 
Fidelity didnt agree that it couldve paid out the proceeds of the ISA before that date. It said 
firstly it required the certificate of confirmation of the death in order to carry out any 
instructions, which wasnt received until September 2019. 
Fidelity said it also required a properly completed instruction from the estate. It said the form 
for the initial instruction to transfer had been returned on two occasions because of 
discrepancies.  Then the transfer of ownership instruction had been paused and 
subsequently cancelled because the executors had decided to sell the investment instead of 
transferring it. So, it said it wasnt responsible for those delays.  
Fidelity apologised and paid £100 for the inconvenience caused by the delay in not seeking 
guidance on the earlier date of 6 March 2020.      
The estate didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
He said that Fidelity had required an original certified copy of the death certificate from the 
estate in line with its terms and conditions and that document had been provided in 
September 2019. 
The investigator noted that transfer instructions had then been sent to Fidelity but as the 
declaration wasnt signed Fidelity was unable to process them. He noted that it was the 
estates responsibility to ensure the relevant form was completed properly and didnt think 
Fidelity had caused the delay.  He said a second issue was then identified with the transfer form which needed to be 
rectified. The investigator didnt think Fidelity had caused that second delay but felt if that 
issue had been picked up earlier, Fidelity could have mitigated the delay.
The investigator noted that the transfer instruction had been paused and changed to an 
instruction to sell the investment, with the relevant form being provided to Fidelity in 
February 2020. 
The investigator acknowledged what had been said about the value of the investment 
reducing during this time. He said that it was right that the investments remained in the 
market until Fidelity was able to successfully process an instruction made by, or on behalf of 
the executors. 
He also noted that the estate was provided with the guide for executors and administrators 
which explained Fidelitys requirements for processing the investment and confirmed the 
monies would remain invested until a valid sell or transfer instruction was received. 
The investigator took into account the correspondence between the parties with regards to 
the incapacity of one of the executors. He agreed that Fidelity should have sought guidance 
on this issue at an earlier point of 6 March 2020 which would have resulted in the investment 
being sold on 16 March. He noted that the value of the investments on that date was lower 
than the value on the actual date of sale, so he didnt consider there had been any financial 
loss. He thought the £100 compensation paid by Fidelity for the delay of five business days 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
The estate didnt agree with the investigator and reiterated that Fidelity had caused delays 
due to the way it had processed the instructions and its lack of knowledge regarding Scottish 
Law. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint was referred to me for review.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider Fidelity had a responsibility, as the provider of the stocks and shares ISA owned 
by the late Mrs H, to ensure that the proceeds were paid out correctly to the correct person 
or entity, and any relevant supporting documentation was supplied.  
The first requirement was evidence confirming the death of the plan holder, Mrs H, and the 
authority of the executors to act on behalf of the estate. This was set out in the terms and 
conditions at 15.4 which states:
15.4 What we do if you die
a)If you die your ISA becomes a 'continuing account of a deceased investor'. To retain this 
tax exempt status no payment can be made into the ISA. Its status as a continuing ISA 
remains until either the administration of the estate is complete, the ISA is closed, or 
three years have passed since death - whichever is sooner.
b)After your death, any income we receive will be held as Cash within your ISA unless you 
had elected to have income reinvested. Any outstanding instalments under a Phased 
Investment Option will be invested as a single lump sum and we will stop all regular 
saving (if you have a Regular Savings Plan).
c)We will hold your Investments until we receive the sealed office copy of the grant of 
representation and instructions from your personal representative(s).
The relevant document was received by Fidelity in September 2019. 
Discrepancies within transfer of ownership formFidelity then received a form from the estate in October 2019 with instructions to transfer the 
ownership of the ISA to Mrs Hs spouse. But unfortunately, one of the sections of the form 
wasnt signed. So, Fidelity wasnt able to process that instruction. 
I consider that was reasonable in the circumstances as Fidelity had to ensure it had a 
correctly completed form. I am satisfied that was a safeguard to ensure that the instructions 
being given were legitimate. 
Unfortunately, Fidelity didnt pick up on a second discrepancy within the form, which was the 
name of one of executors, that didnt exactly match the name on the certificate confirming 
the death. I am satisfied that it was reasonable for Fidelity to raise this to ensure that the 
correct person, with legal authority, was providing the instructions. And I consider there was 
a difference between the names. 
I think it would have been easier for everyone involved if both discrepancies had been raised 
on the first occasion, but I dont think on balance that it would have changed the outcome, 
for reasons which I will set out later in this decision. 
I have to take into account that it was the responsibility of the estate, which was represented, 
to complete the instruction form correctly. I note that Fidelity responded within three days of 
receiving the second copy of the form, so I think it acted promptly once it spotted the second 
error. And so, I think if everything else had remained the same, the instructions would have 
in all likelihood been processed shortly after further evidence had been supplied by the 
estate. 
But that wasnt the case, as matters then changed - the estate asked for the process to be 
paused and it eventually cancelled the transfer of ownership instruction. This occurred less 
than a month after the second copy of the form was submitted. It appears from the medical 
evidence that the relevant date for the purposes of the medical certificate relating to the 
capacity of Mrs Hs spouse was 14 January 2020, which was less than three months after 
the first form was returned. And given the medical evidence, and the nature of the difficulty, I 
think it is more likely that not that if both discrepancies had been raised on the first occasion, 
a change in instructions would have occurred in any event, while the estate was in the 
process of rectifying both discrepancies. 
In any event, even if I am not right about that , I note that if the transfer had gone through the 
estate would have been left in the position of the investment being owned by Mrs Hs spouse 
who was without capacity. So, I think it is more likely than not that there would have then 
been some delay in trying to sell the investment.  And in fact, the estate decided not to 
pursue this course exactly because of the issue around the capacity of Mrs Hs spouse. 
So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude in the circumstances, that if 
those discrepancies had been raised earlier, the sale of the investment would have occurred 
before it did. And in any event, as I have said, I consider the estate had a responsibility to 
complete the form correctly.
In addition, I think there was an intervening event and I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to determine this case based on an outcome which the estate decided it didnt 
want, shortly after it had given that instruction.    
Instruction to sell investment  
The estate says that Fidelity should have been aware that Scottish Law didnt require the 
signature of all executors where one of those executors didnt have capacity. So, it says 
Fidelity should have accepted the instruction received on 28 February 2020 and shouldnt 
have required a Power of Attorney from the estate.
I think there was an early indication that the estate of the late Mrs H was being dealt with 
under Scottish Law, as the confirmation document provided in September 2019 was issued 
by a Scottish court. However, given Fidelitys obligations to ensure the payment was paid to the correct person or entity, I dont think that Fidelity was obliged to make that assumption or 
pre-empt this point before it was clearly raised. In addition, the terms of the contract  made it 
clear it was governed and construed in accordance with English Law. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Fidelity to proceed on the basis of its normal requirements. 
Those requirements were set out in the guide for executors and administrators which was 
provided to the estate with the letters of 19 December 2018 and 9 September 2019. 
It said:
Selling investments
If a beneficiary decides that they would like the money from the investments they have 
inherited, you can instruct us to sell them. Either send us your instructions in a letter signed 
by all the executors or complete the relevant form for the type of account you are dealing 
with.
And section 5 of the relevant form Selling in the event of the death of a Fidelity investor 
stated that it required the signature of all the Executors/Administrators. 
So, I think Fidelity put the estate on notice that it required an instruction signed by all the 
executors. As the estate didnt agree that this requirement was necessary in Scottish Law, 
then I think it was, or should have been aware, there was a potential issue. And I consider 
this issue could have been raised in clearer terms when the form was submitted on 26 
February 2020. 
I also note that Fidelity responded promptly when it received the completed form on 28 
February, and it raised the issue around its requirement of a power of attorney where one 
executor was unable to sign the instruction form.
I dont consider it is fair to simply conclude that Fidelity should have been aware that 
Scottish Law had different requirements. I think the estate should have spelled this out 
clearly, by informing Fidelity that the estate was being distributed according to Scottish Law 
and Scottish Law only required a majority of the executors to authorise the sale where one 
executor (or trustee) lacked capacity.  As it was, this was first raised clearly on 4 March 2020 
and communicated to Fidelity on 6 March 2020. 
Response to 4 March 2020 letter
Fidelity has accepted it should have sought guidance once it received the response on 6 
March 2020. If it had done so, it says the ISA would have been sold on 16 March. That 
means it would have taken a week to seek and receive clarification from 6 to 13 March. And 
as 13 March was a Friday, the next business day was Monday 16 March 2020. That is the 
date Fidelity say the sale would have taken place had it acted more promptly to seek 
guidance. 
I have considered firstly whether it was reasonable for Fidelity to seek further guidance to 
clarify whether it could accept the signature of the majority of the executors. Given the 
amount of money involved wasnt insignificant, I dont think it was unreasonable for Fidelity 
to do so, with the aim of ensuring it was acting correctly in making the payment. 
I have also considered whether the timeframe Fidelity has put forward is a fair and 
reasonable one in the circumstances. One week, is how long it actually took Fidelity to 
obtain guidance in this case. Although it accepts it didnt seek guidance as early as it should 
have done. 
Given any adviser would have to be provided with the relevant information to consider I think 
this would in all likelihood take a number of days. And, while I think it was possible to have 
obtained guidance more quickly, I also have to think about what was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And so, I consider 16 March 2020 to be a fair and reasonable point for 
determining any loss and as Fidelity has explained, the value on that date was lower than 
the proceeds paid to the estate following the sale on 20 March 2020.         I think that the delay in seeking guidance did cause some inconvenience and I consider the 
£100 offered is fair and reasonable compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the complaint brought by the estate of the late Mrs H against 
Financial Administration Services Limited (trading as Fidelity) is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman