DRN-2291140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their property insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited as it cancelled their policy but didnt tell them, they were then uninsured when their 
home was damaged by a water leak.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B lived at property A, they insured it with Lloyds. In 2011 Mr and Mrs B 
changed their correspondence address with their bank and this generated a report to the 
insurer. It seems Lloyds, as the insurer, felt unable to just amend the correspondence 
address, rather it felt it needed to know more information. So Lloyds wrote to Mr and Mrs B 
 but, as it couldnt change the address, its letter was not addressed to the correspondence 
address Mr and Mrs B had given the bank.
Lloyds says that, regardless, Mr and Mrs B must have received at least one letter because 
Mrs B did call it and confirmed that they were still living at the insured property  but Mrs B 
couldnt pass the security questions so, Lloyds says, its representative told her to go into 
the bank branch instead. Lloyds said as it didnt receive any further contact it cancelled the 
policy as of December 2011.
In 2018 Mr B called Lloyds to make a claim as a water leak had damaged the insured 
property. Lloyds explained there was no active policy. At first it thought it had been 
cancelled due to non-payment, then it explained it had been cancelled when it had received 
no contact from Mr and Mrs B in 2011.
In March 2018 Lloyds reviewed what had happened and issued a final response. It thought 
it probably should have handled things differently in 2011. It told Mr and Mrs B that it would 
pay them £150 compensation. But it noted they had left themselves uninsured for six years, 
so felt they should bear some responsibility for that. It wasnt minded to reinstate their cover 
or consider their claim.
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs B complained to this service. Whilst they had only referred their 
complaint to us long after the six-month deadline set out in Lloyds 2018 letter, it gave us 
consent to consider their complaint. But it advised that, due to a system change in 2012, it 
couldnt show what correspondence was sent in 2011, but it did provide some examples of 
the types of letters it was able to send to policyholders at that time.
Our investigator noted that Lloyds had accepted some errors had occurred and considered 
backdating cover as a result. He felt Lloyds shouldnt have cancelled the policy and said it 
should consider Mr and Mrs Bs claim, taking any outstanding premiums from any 
settlement. He said if settlement is made for work Mr and Mrs B have completed, interest* 
on those costs should be paid too from the date they were incurred until settlement is 
made.
Mr and Mrs B accepted the findings. Lloyds said it disagreed with them. It said it had 
acknowledged making some minor administrative errors in 2011 but it felt it was likely that 
Mr and Mrs B had received one if not all of its letters and Mrs B had known she needed to 
act as she called Lloyds but then failed to go into the bank as advised or call it again. 
Lloyds said it is standard industry practice to backdate cover when a policy accidentally 
lapses and this is discovered within a few months. It said it would be unfair to apply that 
pragmatic approach to a situation where years of cover have been missed.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision. I felt, like the 
investigator, that the complaint should be upheld. But I also felt that some aditional redress 
was requried. Namely that Lloyds needed to reinstate the policy and remove the record of 
the cancellation from its own and any industry databases.
Mr and Mrs B said they were pleased by my decision. Lloyds acknowledged receipt of my 
findings but provided no further comment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Having done so, and whilst Ive considered Lloyds objections in this respect, Im not 
minded to move away from the findings reached by our investigator. But I note that our 
investigator didnt suggest Lloyds should reinstate the policy or remove the record of its 
cancellation from its own and any industry databases. Im satisfied Lloyds is at fault here, 
that Lloyds should act as suggested by our investigator but also that it should reinstate the 
cover (it cant consider the claim otherwise) and remove the cancellation record. So Im 
issuing a provisional decision.
It is far from clear what happened in 2011. Lloyds has set out what it believes occurred  
but hasnt provided any contemporaneous evidence from the time to evidence that. And the 
example letters it has provided state that cover is being cancelled because details (of 
varying types) havent been provided. That doesnt seem to fit with Lloyds other statement 
that up to six letters warning of an intent to cancel, before cancellation actually took place, 
were sent. Its possible that Lloyds did enough in a slightly unusual situation to inform
Mr and Mrs B of what it needed to know and its intent if this detail wasnt received  but its 
far from clear.
But interestingly, Lloyds file notes show that as part of its investigation it discovered that 
Mrs B had called it in 2011 and advised there was no change to the property address. But 
because she didnt pass the security questions nothing was actioned and the cancellation 
was progressed. If Mrs B did get in touch, and whilst I understand the importance of data 
security, I cant say that ignoring that information and doing nothing was the right thing for 
Lloyds to do. Not when doing nothing caused a significant impact on the policy ie its 
cancellation.
I have some sympathy with Lloyds concern that Mr and Mrs B didnt notice the absence of 
the policy in the subsequent years, that the problem was only identified when a claim was 
made. But policyholders dont always pay much attention to their paperwork and bank 
accounts. If this was a case of Mr and Mrs B just having been careless and, for example, 
accidentally letting cover lapse at renewal, that would mean their error left them in the 
situation of not being covered. But that is not the case here  here the initial error, as Ive 
explained above, was Lloyds. Because Im satisfied that this situation exists because of a 
failure by Lloyds, I think its only reasonable that Lloyds makes things right.As this has all come to light because Mr and Mrs B have suffered a loss, which they then 
found they were uninsured for, making things right, in my view involves Lloyds handling the 
claim. But for Lloyds to consider a claim there has to be a policy for it to consider the claim 
against. Its also the case that a long period without cover can make it more difficult for a 
policyholder to find cover in the future. Therefore, and particularly as the cover shouldnt 
have been cancelled in the first place, the cover needs reinstating.
But there is a record of the policy being cancelled. It stands to reason that, as Lloyds needs 
to reinstate the cover, it will also need to remove the record of the cancellation. This is 
particularly the case as Ive found its act of cancellation was, in the circumstances, unfair.
Lloyds has paid £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. Im not minded 
to make it pay anything more.
As Mr and Mrs B are happy with my provisional findings, and Lloyds hasnt raised any 
objections for me to consider, Ive no need to add to or change any of them. They are now 
the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
Lloyds error caused Mr and Mrs B to be uninsured when they suffered a loss and needed 
to make a claim. I think its fair to say the cover should be reinstated from the cancellation 
date and the claim considered, with Lloyds being allowed to deduct any backdated premium 
from the claim settlement. Mr and Mrs B may have done some work, if they have Lloyds 
should pay interest* on the costs theyve incurred from the date they incurred them until 
settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs B, it should tell them how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to provide the 
resolution set out above (putting things right).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman