DRN-2380631
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the amount of compensation The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
has offered to settle his complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out alongside his credit card.
What happened
Mr D took out a PPI policy alongside a credit card in 1996. The PPI premium was paid by 
adding it to the account balance each month, so interest was charged on it when there was a 
balance on the account. 
Mr D complained to RBS that the PPI had been mis-sold. RBS agreed to uphold his 
complaint and offered him £164.11 in compensation. Mr D wasnt happy with the offer as he 
thought it should be higher, so he brought his complaint to this service.
RBS had based its offer on some actual data it held for the account from June 2001 and also 
estimated the costs prior to this date where it had no data. Mr D provided some information 
about a balance transfer he felt showed his balance was higher than the estimates in the 
calculation indicated.  RBS agreed to review its calculation in light of this information from 
Mr D and then said the compensation should be £742.78.
Mr D said this was still incorrect and that he had some old statements and documents that 
would show his balance was higher than the estimated figures. He provided some credit 
card cheque stubs and old credit card statements, to show his spending and more accurate 
data about the account.
RBS agreed to review its calculations again, taking into account the information provided by 
Mr D and it then offered compensation of £2,209.67.
Mr D remained unhappy and pointed out that the credit card cheque amounts had been used 
as payments to his account rather than spending on the account. RBS agreed there had 
been an error and did a further recalculation. This resulted in an amount of £2,178.11 being 
indicated as the correct amount of compensation. But RBS said it would honour the higher 
amount offered of £2,209.67.
Mr D was still unhappy as he couldnt understand how the adjustments made would result in 
a lower amount. He also said his circumstances during the period without data had not been 
taken into account and he wouldnt expect to see large sums paid off the balance as RBS 
calculations had indicated.   
Our adjudicator said what RBS had offered was fair. Mr D remained unhappy and asked for 
an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS has agreed to uphold Mr Ds s complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Therefore, in 
this decision I am not looking at how the PPI came to be sold, I am only looking at what is 
fair compensation to settle this complaint. 
When Mr D first brought his complaint to this service, he indicated his concern about the 
amount of compensation RBS had offered (which was £164.11), was because RBS had 
refused to take into account the balance on the account must have been higher than RBS 
had estimated for the time it had no data. Mr D sent evidence to show that in March 2000 he 
had opened a new credit card and undertaken a balance transfer from his RBS card 
account. This all suggested the balance on the RBS card was at least £3,900 which was 
higher than RBS had estimated.
When presented with this evidence RBS agreed it would use the data to show an increased 
balance in March 2000 and then it based its assumptions about the balance on the account, 
and the PPI charged, on a reducing basis going backwards. This resulted in an increased 
offer for the PPI of £742.78.
Mr D remained unhappy with this offer as he said it was less than he had received for other 
mis-sold PPI compensation paid on other credit cards he held. He requested and was 
provided with a copy of the calculation RBS had undertaken.
This second calculation showed that the balance had been increased in April 2000 to £3,900 
and this figure had then been used as the balance, reducing it backwards, to the date the 
credit card opened in 1996. The PPI premiums, on these estimated balances, can also be 
seen to be reducing. 
Mr D said this calculation indicated he had built up a large balance fairly quickly before 
March 2000 which would not have happened, and he would not have paid it off quickly. He 
felt it was more likely there would have been a significant balance on the account prior to 
2000 for a number of reasons relating to his personal circumstances and he would not have 
been able to pay it off quickly. 
Mr D then provided some of his old credit card statements, from between December 1997 
and November 1999 and also some credit card cheque stubs. These were sent to RBS who 
again used this new actual data from these statements to revise its calculated amount of 
compensation. This resulted in an increased offer of compensation of £2,209.67.
As RBS now knew the actual balance, and PPI premiums paid, for March, July and 
November 1999, this calculation included these figures and the estimates of unknown data 
was then calculated around these figures also. This reflected Mr Ds view that the balance 
on the account had been higher leading up to April 2000 when the balance transfer to 
another credit card took place.  
Mr D has said he would not have been able to pay off this accumulated £3,900 balance in 
2000 quickly due to his circumstances. But that amount was transferred to another credit 
card, so was cleared off his RBS card account in one payment. Its possible a small balance 
may have been left on the RBS account to be paid off after paying the £3,900. And the 
calculation estimates undertaken by RBS reflects the balance wasnt fully cleared until June 
2000, which seems reasonable.
Mr D also then provided some additional credit card statements and again RBS used these 
to input into its calculation and produce a new amount of compensation. However, this 
resulted in a lower amount of compensation of £2,178.11, when this more accurate information was included. But RBS said it would honour the higher amount already offered 
and paid of £2,209.67.
When checking the later calculations Mr D pointed out that RBS had used the amounts from 
the credit card stubs as if these were payments by cheque to reduce his credit card balance. 
This was clearly an error by RBS, which it acknowledged. These cheques were for use with 
the credit card account and were quite common in the 1980s and 1990s. So, these cheques 
actually increased the balance on the account, rather than reducing it.
RBS did correct this error, but this resulted in an amount of £2,190.99 compensation being 
shown as due. This again being less than the offer paid of £2,209.67. 
The overall effect that this amendment for the credit card cheques made was negligible as 
the amount shown as spent on the account had in the main before 2001 been assumed and 
unless the spending on the credit card cheque was higher than the estimated spend and 
balance then the estimated amounts were not affected. 
Also, as the credit card cheques were not payments to the account to reduce the balance, as 
initially applied, then less compensatory interest was due. This is because if Mr D paid less 
off the balance he owed, which included the PPI on the account, then less was paid at the 
time by him for the PPI and so he was out of pocket for a smaller amount.
The cheque payments made very slight increases to the balance on the account, and so the 
PPI premiums may have been slightly more, as was the card rate interest. But overall the 
amount of compensatory interest for being out of pocket was reduced and this amount, 
being removed from the calculation, was higher than the extra PPI and card rate interest 
caused to be added to the calculation. 
Businesses have over a number of years developed methods of calculating compensation 
for mis-sold PPI with credit cards. This takes the approach of restructuring the account to 
show what the account would have looked like if the PPI were removed from it. Each 
business has developed a calculator to adjust the balance by removing the PPI premiums 
and the interest that was cause by the premiums being in the account. This shows how 
much extra a consumer has paid for the PPI in the account. The calculators also work out 
when a consumer may have been out of pocket for the costs of the PPI and calculates 
simple interest on these amounts as additional compensation.
Where there are periods that no accurate data is held for then the businesses have 
developed approaches to estimate what may have been paid for the PPI. When RBS first did 
its calculation on this case it made assumptions for the whole period when it didnt have data 
 that is before June 2001. As Mr D has, over time, provided more evidence RBS has 
adjusted its calculations to ensure the accurate data is used where available. This has 
resulted in various calculations and compensation amounts being indicated. 
The approach taken by RBS in its calculators has been accepted by this service as being 
fair. I have looked at the calculations undertaken by RBS in this complaint and can see it has 
used the approach I would expect, and whenever more accurate new data and information 
has been provided by Mr D, RBS has reviewed its calculation. Whenever there is no data 
available a business will estimate the possible costs of PPI charged to an account for the 
unknown periods. And when actual evidence is provided, it will update its calculation. Mr D 
was unable to provide all his evidence at the start of his complaint but whenever new 
evidence and data was provided by him, RBS has taken this into account and updated its 
calculations. So, I think what it has paid to Mr D is fair compensation.Mr D has also said that RBS has not calculated the compensation in the same way as other 
businesses he had accounts and PPI with, and this has resulted in lower compensation. 
Different businesses do take different approaches, but all are assessed and overall 
approved as taking a fair approach. And what RBS has done, and the calculator it has used, 
has provided a fair estimate of the costs of the PPI and the compensation due to Mr D.
Also, Mr D may have used other accounts in different ways with his spending, so it is 
impossible to compare one credit card calculation directly with another. We have to consider 
each case on the evidence presented for that particular account and PPI policy. 
Overall in this case I think the final calculation undertaken by RBS, incorporating all the 
evidence presented at various times, has reached a fair amount of compensation. This is 
slightly less than RBS offered and actually paid to Mr D in August 2020. But RBS has agreed 
to honour the higher offer, which I think is the right thing to do. Whilst I may have not 
covered in detail every point Mr D has raised, I hope my explanations has helped reassure 
Mr D that the calculation and offer is fair.
Mr D has also said he thinks he should get some compensation for the delays that occurred 
in RBS dealing with his complaint and settlement being reached in this complaint. 
Complaints do take time to deal with in normal circumstances. In this case Mr D originally 
submitted his complaint in July 2019. This was just before the PPI deadline for complaints 
and businesses, and this service, had large volumes of complaints to deal with for several 
months after July 2010. So regrettably there were some delays for all complainants. 
In addition, the current pandemic has caused businesses to have to change their ways of 
working and again this has caused further delays.
Overall, Im not persuaded that the delays were solely the fault of RBS in this case. Mr D 
himself has indicated he had to change his ways of working and asked for more time to find 
and submit his evidence, which is understandable. So, I dont think it would be fair to award 
any additional compensation for the length of time it has taken for this complaint to be 
resolved, as this has been caused by a number of reasons, often outside the control of the 
parties.  
In summary I am satisfied that the calculations undertaken by RBS, that have been provided 
to Mr D, are fair. And that the compensation offered and paid by RBS is therefore fair and 
reasonable in al the circumstances. So, I am not upholding this complaint that any more 
compensation is due. 
 
My final decision
I think the compensation RBS Bank PLC has calculated and paid to Mr D for the mis-sold 
PPI is fair and I am not upholding this complaint that any more compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman