DRN-2764621
The complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him. 
What happened
Mr R was provided with four loans by Mr Lender between October 2014 and August 2016. 
The details are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £200.00 4 06/10/2014 27/02/2015
2 £100.00 1 24/05/2016 30/06/2016
3 £700.00 6 30/06/2016 31/08/2016
4 £650.00 6 31/08/2016 outstanding 
Mr R says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided and that 
he had a poor credit score and several other payday loans at the time. He says the issues 
with his debts have had a seriously detrimental effect on his mental health. 
Mr Lender issued a final response letter to Mr R saying that checks were carried out in line 
with the regulatory guidelines. It says that affordability and credit checks were carried out 
alongside reviews of Mr Rs borrowing history and based on these the loans were affordable. 
While it didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint it offered as a gesture of goodwill to recall Mr Rs 
account and write off the outstanding balance.
Mr R didnt accept Mr Lenders offer and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say it 
was unfair that loans 1 to 3 were provided but thought that further checks should have taken 
place before loan 4. He said that had these happened, Mr Lender would have realised that 
Mr R was struggling to manage his money and was gambling excessively. He thought loan 4 
wasnt sustainably affordable. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It noted that loan 4 was only the third 
loan in the lending chain and was for a lower amount that Mr R had previously borrowed and 
repaid. It said Mr R was asked the reasons for the loan and hed said it was for a holiday and 
that he was asked about gambling and confirmed the money wouldnt be spent on gambling. 
Mr Lender said it was proportionate at this stage in the lending relationship to rely on the 
information Mr R had provided. It noted the comment about Mr Rs gambling but said that 
this would have only become clear if bank statements had been provided and it wasnt 
proportionate to ask for these at that time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R took out the first loan in October 2014 and repaid it in February 2015. He then didnt 
take out another loan until May 2016. Given the gap in Mr Rs borrowing I find it reasonable 
to accept that the loans fall into two lending chains with the first chain including loan 1 and 
the second chain including loans 2 to 4.
Before loan 1 was provided information about Mr Rs income and expenses was gathered. 
He declared a monthly income of £1,100 and expenses totalling £480. The highest 
repayment under the loan was £120. Given the size of the repayments compared to Mr Rs 
income and given this was the first loan Mr R was provided by Mr Lender, I find these checks were proportionate. As the checks didnt raise concerns about the affordability of the 
loan I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr R was provided with loan 2 in May 2016. This was the first loan of the second lending 
chain. It was for £100 with £130 repayable the following month. Mr R declared a monthly 
income of £1,300 and expenses of £510. The information recorded Mr R as living at home at 
the time and Mr Lender says a credit check carried out didnt raise concerns. Having 
considered the size of the loan and repayment compared with Mr Rs income I think the 
checks were proportionate and as these suggested the loan was affordable for Mr R I think it 
reasonable it was provided.
Loan 3 (second in the second lending chain) was for a much higher amount, £700 and was 
taken out the same day the previous loan was repaid. This could raise concerns that Mr R 
wasnt able to repay his previous loan without borrowing more, however as this was only the 
second loan in the lending chain, I do not find I can say that this pattern had been 
established at that time. While the loan was for a higher amount it was repayable over a 
longer term, six months, with the highest repayment amount being £275. At this time Mr R 
disclosed that he was paying £50 a month towards other short term loans. While this amount 
(along with his other expenses) didnt suggest the loan was unaffordable, I think the 
disclosure of other short term loans suggested he may have been struggling to manage his 
money. While I think there were issues beginning to show as this was only the second loan 
in the lending chain I do not think I can say Mr Lender was wrong to provide this loan.
Loan 3 was repaid early but loan 4 was taken out on the same day. I note Mr Lenders 
comment that loan 4 was for a smaller amount than loan 3, but it was only slightly less and 
was for an amount higher than Mr R repaid at that time on loan 3. Taking out new borrowing 
on the day previous borrowing is repaid (even if repaid early) should raise concerns about 
sustainability as it could suggest that the new borrowing is required in order to repay the 
previous loan. As this had now happened on two occasions I think this should have raised 
concerns. The highest repayment amount accounted for around 20% of Mr Rs declared 
income. The loan was repayable over six months and while the repayment amounts 
decreased Mr Lender needed to carry out adequate checks to ensure Mr R could make his 
repayments over the full term. Mr R disclosed that he was making repayments to other short 
term lenders and include the same amount as had been included in the previous loan 
application suggesting that his use of short term loans wasnt reducing. Given the 
combination of issues noted above I think that Mr Lender should have undertaken further 
checks to ensure that the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Mr Lender has said that requiring bank statements at this stage in the lending relationship 
wasnt proportionate. I note this comment, but I think further evidence should have been 
gathered to ensure that Mr Lender had a clear understanding of Mr Rs financial position. 
Bank statements could have been part of this process and had these been gathered, 
Mr Lender would have seen that Mr R was spending excessively on gambling. 
As I find that further checks should have been undertaken before loan 4 was provided and 
that had these happened, they would have raised concerns about how Mr R was managing 
his money and his spending on gambling, I do not find that loan 4 should have been 
considered sustainably affordable. Because of this I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 
4. 
Putting things right
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debt back then it should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following result.Based on the information provided, Mr R has repaid more than the capital amount he 
borrowed for loan 4. If this is the case, all payments made should be treated as if 
there were repayments of the capital and any overpayments should be refunded to 
Mr R along with 8% simple interest* on the individual payments calculated from the 
date of the overpayment to the date the complaint is settled. 
Any information recorded on Mr Rs credit file regarding loan 4 should be removed.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. You should give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr R should 
take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman