DRN-3534263
The complaint
Mr W complains about the advice given by KBFS Financial Limited (KBFS) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ws employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In August 2017 scheme members were told that, if the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) was approved (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring 
mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in 
respect of a DB pension scheme) they would have a choice - either move into a new scheme 
(BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF.
Mr W was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so in August 2017 he contacted his existing financial adviser for 
advice. Because they didnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to advise on DB 
pension transfers, they referred Mr W to KBFS.
Mr Rs existing financial adviser completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Rs 
circumstances and objectives, which KBFS reviewed with Mr R during a telephone meeting. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr W was 48; he was single but had a long-term 
partner; he had one dependent child; he jointly owned his own home which had an 
outstanding mortgage of around £25,000 due to be repaid in six years time; he had savings 
of around £30,000; and he wanted to semi retire at 58 by working part-time until his early 
60s. KBFS also carried out an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
On 26 October 2017 KBFS advised Mr W to transfer his pension benefits into a personal 
pension and invest the proceeds in an investment fund which KBFS deemed matched 
Mr Ws attitude to risk. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were: 
to enable Mr W to protect the full value of his pension fund in the event of his death and to 
be able to pass it on to his family; to provide the option of flexible income from age 55 
without any reduction in benefits; and to allow Mr W more control over where his pension 
was invested  Mr W didnt want to enter the PPF.
Mr W accepted the recommendation and some time afterwards, around £360,000 was 
transferred to his new personal pension.
Mr W complained in 2021 to KBFS about the suitability of the transfer advice using the 
services of a representative. Mr W said he believes the advice was flawed and has lost out 
as a result.
KBFS didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In summary it said it was satisfied the pension 
transfer was appropriate for Mr W at the time primarily because it enabled him to meet his 
objective of freeing his pension planning from his employer to provide greater flexibility and 
choice as to how and when to take the benefits. It said Mr Ws DB scheme didnt provide 
flexible benefits and so it would stop Mr W from being able to retire early. It said the transfer 
also met Mr Ws priority to be able to pass on the benefits of his pension to his partner in the 
event of his death, which the DB scheme wouldnt allow because he wasnt married.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr W referred his complaint to our Service. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required KBFS to pay compensation. In summary they said the 
transfer wasnt in Mr Ws best interests. They said the transfer wasnt financially viable 
because of the high critical yield  they said its likely Mr W wouldnt have been able to even 
match his DB benefits in the personal pension if he was invested in line with a balanced risk 
strategy. And they said this was based on a retirement age of 65. But they said, given Mr W 
indicated he intended to retire at 58, they wouldve expected KBFS to have produced 
analysis based on a retirement age of 58. They also said there were no other compelling 
reasons to justify the transfer as being suitable: there wasnt a genuine need for Mr W to 
have control over his fund; they didnt think flexibility in terms of Mr W accessing his benefits 
earlier than age 65 could only be achieved by transferring; and death benefits shouldnt have 
been prioritised over Mr Ws income needs in retirement. They said lump sum death benefits 
couldve been provided by term assurance, rather than a whole of life policy KBFS quoted 
for. They said this wouldve been affordable and wouldve satisfied Mr Ws objective without 
compromising his guaranteed benefits. They said Mr W should have been advised to opt into 
the BSPS2.
KBFS disagreed. In summary it said it was important to remember that, at the time there was 
a lot of uncertainty surrounding the pension fund and what might happen. They said at the 
time, the only guarantee was either transfer to the PPF or transfer out  the BSPS2 was not 
guaranteed to go ahead. They said Mr W was not married and so under the scheme his 
partner would not receive half of the deferred pension. They said because of this, a more 
accurate reflection of the benefits available to Mr W in the TVAS was the hurdle rate. They 
disagreed with the investigator that a decreasing term assurance policy was a suitable 
replacement to transferring the pension to achieve things. Mr W wanted to retire early and 
with no way of knowing what his DC pension fund value would be  he wasnt sure hed still 
be paying into the scheme given the uncertainty - he wanted flexible access to his pension to 
meet his ambition of buying a campervan and travelling whilst young enough to do so. In 
response to the investigators point about providing analysis for a retirement age of 58, they 
said unfortunately the scheme did not provide an early retirement factor to age 58, so 55 
was used to give an accurate comparison.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, the complaint was 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of KBFS actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, KBFS should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ws 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability 
KBFS carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Ws pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Ws existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the written advice in late October 2017, Mr W 
didnt have the option to remain in the BSPS. So basing the analysis on the existing scheme 
was somewhat redundant and in my view wasnt helpful to Mr W.
KBFS has said that at the time of the advice there was no guarantee the BSPS2 would go 
ahead. But by the time KBPS issued its suitability letter, Mr W wouldve received his 
Time to Choose information with details about the scheme - the BSPS2 wouldve offered 
the same income benefits but the annual increases wouldve been lower. I accept the 
BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead. But in my view, all of the communications sent out 
by the scheme trustees were very optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be 
met. So given this, I think it was reasonable for KBFS to have used the benefits available to 
Mr W through the BSPS2 in its analysis and advice so that he was able to make a properly 
informed decision.The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr W was 48 at the time of the advice it was recorded in the fact-find that he wanted to retire 
at 58 with a view to working part-time until his early 60s. The critical yields required to match 
Mr Ws benefits at ages 55 and 65 were set out in the TVAS report of 10 October 2017 and 
were 8.01% assuming Mr W took a full pension at age 65 and 19.06% assuming he took a 
full pension at age 55. The critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPF 
were 4.99% assuming Mr W took a full pension at age 65 and 4.55% assuming he took a 
cash lump sum and a reduced pension. At age 55, they were 10.02% and 9.11% 
respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr W remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided even if that meant waiting for the 
details to be known. The lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased 
the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those 
reflecting the PPF benefits.
I can see KBFS has said the reason it didnt provide analysis based on Mr W retiring at age 
58 was because the scheme didnt provide an early retirement factor to age 58. But this 
information was provided in the Time to Choose information Mr W wouldve most likely 
received prior to KBFS providing its formal written advice. So I think it could and shouldve 
provided analysis based on a retirement age of 58. I think this wouldve been more 
meaningful for Mr W given this is what KBFS advice was based on.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 3.3% per year for six years to retirement (age 55), 3.7% for nine years to retirement 
(age 58) and 4.3% for 16 years to retirement (age 65.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Ws 
balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little 
point in Mr W giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 55 (closest to Mr Ws recorded 
intended retirement age) was 9.11%, which was based on Mr W taking a cash lump sum and 
a reduced pension through the PPF. It was 10.02% based on him taking a full pension. 
The critical yield if Mr W took a full pension at 55 through the existing BSPS was 19.06%  
no figure was provided for a reduced pension basis. So, based on Mr W taking a full pension 
at age 55 through the BSPS2, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between 
19.06% and 10.02%, and likely closer to 19.06%. Based on a retirement age of 58, I think 
the relevant critical yield wouldve likely been less than 19.06% (age 55) but higher than 
8.01% (age 65.) These rates was significantly higher than the discount rate and above the 
regulators upper projection rate.So, given this, I think it was clear that Mr W was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement, as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. I dont think the position was any different if the 
scheme moved to the PPF.
I can see that KBFS has questioned the relevance or importance of the critical yield in this 
case because Mr W was single  the critical yield was based on providing a spouses 
pension which was irrelevant to Mr W as his partner was not entitled to it. It says the hurdle 
rate was a better comparison.
But I dont think the importance of the critical yield figure should be downplayed here. I still 
consider it gives a good indication of the value of benefits Mr W was considering giving up. 
Its also the case that the regulator required KBFS to provide it and so deems it a necessary 
and important part of the decision-making process. So KBFS needed to provide an analysis 
based on the critical yield and I think it is a relevant consideration here.
I accept Mr W was single at the time and the critical yield figure included the spouses 
pension benefit the DB scheme provided. But reference to the hurdle rate, while ignoring the 
spouses pension, also ignores any guarantees in terms of increases in payment. So Im not 
persuaded it is a more appropriate comparison here. In any event, the TVAS recorded that 
the hurdle rate based on a retirement age of 55 was 5.1% - so Im not persuaded reference 
to this rate demonstrates the financial viability of the transfer in this case or that it was in 
Mr Ws best interest to transfer out of the scheme. 
Id add here that I have some concerns about how KBFS assessed Mr Ws attitude to risk as 
balanced. The questions in the attitude to risk questionnaire do not, in my view, readily 
demonstrate how the resulting profile was arrived at. But given Mr Ws investment 
inexperience, and his answer to what I consider was a key question asked of him at question 
10: I am willing to bear some risk and chance for loss in an effort to achieve higher returns, 
but prefer a significant portion of my portfolio to be invested in cautious assets. I think a 
cautious approach to risk was more suitable here. That said, because Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr W, 
which I will go on to explain my further reasons why, it follows that I dont need to consider 
the suitability of the investment recommendation. 
So based on financial viability alone a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Ws best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as KBFS has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income need
KBFS recommended the transfer because Mr W wanted the option of flexible income and 
wanted to access his benefits at age 55 without any reduction.
While Im not persuaded that Mr W knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in
retirement, in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to
achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr W was 48 at the time of the advice, and while his intended retirement was still around 10 
years away, its clear from the advice paperwork that hed given his retirement some 
thought. The fact-find recorded that Mr W wanted to semi-retire at 58, have access to funds 
at this point while working part-time until his early 60s. It also recorded that Mr W would like to be able to take a job closer to home to avoid his current lengthy commute. Id add here 
that the suitability letter, in my view, paints a slightly confused picture of Mr Ws retirement 
age objective. It says that Mr W wanted to retire as soon as possible and as I referred to 
above, to have a flexible income to enable him to retire at 55. But it then refers to him 
wanting to take money from his pension at age 55/58. Its not clear therefore whether 
Mr Ws plan to retire at 58 was as formed as the fact-find completed by his existing adviser 
might suggest or whether KBFS hadnt fully grasped or understood his objective. But in any 
event, I disagree with KBFS that Mr W couldnt retire early if he remained in the DB scheme 
because it didnt provide flexible benefits. I think Mr W couldve achieved things by staying in 
the DB scheme. Ill explain why.
Whether at age 55 or 58, I think its reasonable to assume Mr W was looking to reduce his 
hours and work part-time. As I said above, Mr W was considering working outside of his 
current sector when the time came and closer to home. But based on what KBFS 
documented in the suitability report that Mr W ...could reduce your work schedule to part-
time which would mean less 15 hour days and less time spent working in hazardous 
conditions this suggests Mr W hadnt ruled out considering reducing his hours in his current 
job. 
Mr Ws full-time basic annual income at the time, without overtime, was £35,000. Mr Ws 
recorded annual income need in retirement was around £22,000. So if Mr W worked three 
days a week, based on his current salary, its possible that his income would broadly be met 
by his part-time earnings (around £21,000 assuming 3/5ths of his basic full-time income.) 
But I can see from KBFS handwritten telephone note following its initial contact with Mr W 
that his partner also worked. KBFS appears to have ignored her earnings. But I I think it is 
reasonable to take them into account given I think Mr Ws stated income need was based on 
a household or joint need  not on an individual basis. So I think any shortfall in this scenario 
could likely be made up from Mr Ws partners income  Im not persuaded it was certain to 
be the case that Mr W would need access to his pension benefits at this stage to help 
achieve things.
But if Mr W chose to reduce his hours further and work just two days a week for example, 
this would likely reduce his income to around £14,000 a year leaving a deficit of around 
£8,000. But ignoring Mr Ws partners income, Mr W was contributing to his workplace DC 
pension scheme - as was his employer  giving a combined pension contribution rate of 
20%. It had a current value of £3,500. So with at least 10 years contributions ahead, not 
accounting for investment growth, salary increases or increases in contribution rates, this 
had the potential to be worth in excess of £70,000 by age 58 - accounting for growth, likely 
substantially more.
Furthermore Mr W already had £30,000 in savings, which he was adding to at the rate of 
between £500 - £700 a month. Once his mortgage was repaid after six years, it was 
recorded that he could add a further £250 a month to this. So by age 58 Mr W could have 
total savings in excess of £100,000. But even allowing for some capital expenditure over this 
period, Mr Ws savings would likely still amount to a significant amount and likely above 
£70,000.
So I think Mr W wouldve had two sources from which he could top up his part-time earnings 
or take lump sums from to provide him with the flexibility to meet his semi-retirement 
objective. Mr W could then take his DB scheme benefits once he wanted to stop working 
altogether  recorded as being in his early 60s. At this point, according to KBFS, Mr Ws 
existing DB scheme income would be somewhere between £15,994 (at age 55) and £22,849 
(at age 65) assuming he took a full pension  so slightly less under the BSPS2. But Mr W 
would still likely have funds in both his DC scheme and savings to supplement his income 
until his state pension became payable.Its recorded that Mr W wanted to buy a campervan and go travelling, so he might need 
access to a cash lump sum to achieve things. KBFS didnt ascertain how much Mr W might 
need to meet this objective  but given Mr Ws two not insignificant existing sources of funds 
he could draw on for his purpose, I still think he couldve likely also met this objective by 
remaining in his DB scheme. 
I dont think the position was any different in the alternative scenario where Mr W chose to 
leave his current employer at 58 and work part-time in a different job closer to home - I still 
think he couldve achieved things by remaining in the DB scheme. Mr W could choose to 
either take his DB scheme benefits at 58 and supplement his income through part-time work. 
Or, if his part-time work earned him enough, Mr W might be able to use his DC scheme 
and/or his savings and defer taking his DB scheme benefits to achieve a higher starting 
income when the time came. I think Mr W would still have sufficient funds available to make 
up any difference in his income until receipt of his state pension.
So it strikes me that Mr W already had the flexibility to achieve his retirement objectives  he 
didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a personal pension 
arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr W did in fact have a greater 
need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve been explored 
closer to his intended retirement age. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained 
the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. I think KBFS couldve 
explained this more clearly to Mr W.  
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr W wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And
while the income Mr W would receive was lower than the pension hed be entitled to under 
the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it wouldve made a difference to 
the recommendation. As Ive explained in detail above, Mr W wouldve likely had other 
means to draw on flexibly until his state pension became payable.
So overall, I think Mr W couldve likely met his objectives and income needs in retirement  
through the BSPS2 or the PPF and I think he already had the flexibility to achieve his goals. 
So I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his pension to have 
additional flexibility, that Im not persuaded he needed.
Death benefits
One of the primary reasons KBFS recommended the transfer was to enable Mr W to pass on 
what remained of his pension fund to his partner in the event of his death. Because Mr W 
was single, his partner wasnt entitled to the DB schemes spouses pension.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr W. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr W might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr W about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  it is not a legacy planning 
tool. I dont think KBFS shouldve encouraged Mr W to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
I accept Mr W was single and he wanted to provide for his family. But Mr W already had 
lump sum death benefits available. He had death-in-service benefit, which he couldve 
nominated his partner to be the recipient of  if he hadnt already done so. He was also 
contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme, which again, he couldve nominated his partner as beneficiary of.
But, if Mr W genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse/daughter, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I 
think KBFS shouldve instead properly explored life insurance. I appreciate KBFS has 
referred to quotes for a whole of life policy with a sum assured of £600,000 - this was 
discounted by Mr W because of the cost (the lowest quote was just over £400 a month.) 
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr W.
It appears the quote was based on the capital value of the schemes death benefits 
assuming Mr W died immediately - so essentially assuming that he would pass away on day 
one following the transfer. But that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr W wanted to leave whatever 
remained of his pension to his family, which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life 
and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr W 
how much he would ideally like to leave to his partner, after taking into account the above 
existing benefits, and this couldve been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, 
which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. And given Mr Ws monthly disposable 
income, likely affordable too. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr W. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Mr W, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and he was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. 
There were lots of negative sentiment circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that 
Mr W was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his 
employer, his negative perception of the PPF and his concerns about the BSPS2. But it was 
KBFS obligation to give Mr W an objective picture, taking the emotion out of the equation 
and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr W through 
the BSPS2 into account. I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Ws concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that KBFS shouldve 
reassured Mr W that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or 
had been led to believe. Importantly Mr W still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. And I still think the income available to Mr W through the PPF wouldve still 
provided a solid base, which his other means could supplement to meet his overall income 
need at retirement. 
Crucially he was also unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the 
increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not 
subject to any investment risk. Mr W might not have been able to later transfer out of the 
PPF  but given what I said earlier on about Mr W already having the flexibility to achieve his 
objectives, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Ws concerns about his DB scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.Summary
I accept that Mr W was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer and the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control 
and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have 
sounded like attractive features to Mr W. But KBFS wasnt there to just transact what Mr W 
might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr W 
needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr W already had flexibility to retire early or take a 
phased retirement, so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme on the 
basis that his DB scheme didnt provide flexibility in how and when he took his benefits. And 
the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ws best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension at this time when he had the opportunity of opting into the 
BSPS2.
So, I think KBFS shouldve advised Mr W not to transfer out of the scheme and to opt into 
the BSPS2.
As I said earlier on, KBFS believes the BSPS2 wasnt an option at the time. And as I also 
said, I appreciate the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. But I think 
everything pointed to it likely going ahead, so this ought to have been the position KBFS  
adopted  I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. And while Mr M indicated he 
wanted to retire at 58, he was also considering working part-time until his early 60s which 
couldve been still with his current employer. So, I don't think that it would've been in his best 
interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the 
PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And 
by opting into the BSPS2, Mr W wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme 
nearer to his retirement age - if his needs demanded it. The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr W would've gone ahead anyway, against KBFSs 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr W wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against KBFSs advice if things had happened as they should 
have and theyd recommended he opt into the BSPS2. I say this because, while as Ive 
already said, Mr W was likely motivated to transfer when he approached KBFS, on balance, 
I still think Mr W wouldve listened to and followed its advice. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mr W was an experienced investor, so I dont think he possessed the requisite skill, 
knowledge or confidence to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex pension 
matters. 
Mr Ws pension accounted for all of his private retirement provision at the time and in my 
view, his attitude to risk was cautious. So, if KBFS had provided him with clear advice 
against transferring out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ws concerns about his employer or the scheme were so great 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. So if KBFS had explained that Mr W could likely meet all of his objectives 
without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I 
dont think Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if KBFS had given 
suitable advice that he not do so and that he should opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think KBFS should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr W. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
KBFS  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr W. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr Ws retirement provision is of great importance to him given its significance in his overall 
retirement income provision, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So 
I think an award of £200 is fair in all the circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given. 
KBFS must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
KBFS should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr W and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr W has not yet retired, and he has no immediate plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, KBFS should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,if Mr W accepts KBFS offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, KBFS may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
KBFS should also pay Mr W £200 for the distress and inconvenience the matter has caused.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require KBFS Financial Limited 
to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
KBFS Financial Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on KBFS Financial 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr W can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman