DRN-3050925
The complaint
 BHP, a micro-enterprise business represented by Mr C, complained about Barclays Bank 
UK PLC. Mr C was unhappy because Barclays:
- moved the business from his personal relationship manager to a direct relationship 
management team; and 
- refused to extend free business banking by a year. Mr C said the area relationship 
manager had agreed this because his business had been on hold as a result of the 
Covid pandemic.
What happened
 BHP opened a business account with Barclays on 20 May 2019. Mr C said he chose 
Barclays because it offered him two years free banking, which was important to a cash-
based business, and because it offered a relationship manager.
In January 2021, Mr C had a discussion with his relationship managers line manager, the 
area manager.  He said the Covid pandemic had meant that theyd barely traded for the 
second year. The area manager verbally agreed to extend the initial free banking by an extra 
year. 
On 17 February 2021, Barclays sent a letter saying that BHPs free banking was due to end 
on 22 May, when charges would start. Not long afterwards, Barclays sent another letter 
which said that BHPs account was being transferred to its direct relationship management 
team, instead of the relationship manager.
Mr C complained. He wanted BHPs account to stay with the existing relationship manager, 
and the extension to free banking which he believed she had agreed.
Barclays said that BHPs account had been migrated to a direct relationship management 
team. It said this was a bank business decision, so there had been no bank error.  Barclays 
also said:
Prior to your migration you were in talks with [area managers name]  about extending your 
free banking for an additional 12 months. Unfortunately as the account has now migrated to 
our Direct Relationship Team the decision to extend this ultimately lies with them. I can 
confirm that the decision has been made not to extend this further.  I am sorry for any 
inconvenience this may cause.
Barclays credited BHPs account with £100 to acknowledge poor service and potential mis-
advice in relation to the possible free banking extension.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and asked this service to help. He explained that the impact on its 
business of not having the free banking extension would be dramatic, because it was about 
to start opening up its business again, and the cost to the business of the Covid pandemic 
had been horrendous over the previous 18 months. Mr C said the cost would get worse and 
worse as the business was cash-based, which would mean high bank charges for paying in 
cash. 
Mr C also provided copies of text messages between the area manager and himself. Mr Cs 
text said that the complaints team had said it was going to email the area manager direct 
about staying with local representation, and an extension of free banking. The area 
managers reply said:
Ive emailed her back no worries. I said we had agreed it already and they need to look to 
honour it. Cant guarantee it but we can see.
Barclays told our investigator that any requests for free banking have to be submitted to its 
pricing team. It recognised that Mr C felt that if hed stayed with a personal relationship 
manager, the request would have been approved  but Barclays said his wasnt the case. It 
said that requests were all reviewed by the same pricing team, regardless of whether theyre 
made by a personal relationship manager or a direct relationship manager.
Our investigator didnt uphold BHPs complaint. He said hed seen evidence from Barclays 
internal procedures that only the pricing team could authorise free banking. And hed also 
seen an email which Mr Cs former relationship area manager had sent within Barclays, 
which had said shed agreed to refer the request to the pricing team but hadnt agreed to 
free banking.
The investigator considered that Barclays had made an error  either the area manager had 
told Mr C that the banking extension had been agreed when it hadnt, or it hadnt been clear. 
But he said he didnt think this had led to a financial loss for BHP because Barclays had 
issued its final response letter on 13 April, but charges didnt start until 22 May. The 
investigator thought this was a reasonable time to switch accounts if BHP were unhappy with 
the introduction of charges.
BHP didnt agree. Mr C said that when the area manager had approached him (not the other 
way round) about opening a Barclays business account. In early 2019, hed been 
guaranteed an initial period of 2 years free banking, and then an annual review. He said that 
when hed contacted the area manager in January 2021 about extending the free banking, 
shed assured him this wouldnt be an issue. Mr C hadnt seen the need to ask for this in 
writing. After Barclays mid-February letter to say BHPs free banking would end, the area 
manager then sent the text hes forwarded to us (which Ive quoted above). 
Mr C said it was ridiculous to say the area manager didnt have authority to agree this. She 
was a senior employee, whod been with Barclays for a long time. Mr C said her requests 
always went through the pricing team without issues  and he knew of other nearby 
businesses which had had this free banking for several years. Mr C said he couldnt prove 
this without compromising those firms banking relationship. 
Mr C, on behalf of BHP, asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Moving from a personal relationship manager to a direct relationship management teamIn my provisional decision, I recognised that having a personal relationship manager was 
one reason why BHP chose to open its account with Barclays  and that it would have 
preferred to stay with a personal relationship manager and area manager, whom it knew. But 
I saw nothing to indicate that there had been any promise or guarantee that this structure 
would continue indefinitely. Banks do reorganise their businesses, and are entitled to take 
business decisions about the way they organise their operations. 
Barclays said that it explained to Mr C during a phone call in March 2021 that these changes 
would affect over 30,000 customers. It also explained to our investigator that in fact the 
move was intended to improve the service provided. The direct relationship manager team 
works longer hours than the branch-based personal relationship managers. And personal 
relationship managers spend most of their day in meetings, so they can be difficult to 
contact, whereas the direct relationship management team is a phone-based team to 
provide service and support.
I found that Barclays was entitled to decide to move BHPs account from a personal 
relationship manager to its direct relationship management team. I could also see that in 
practical terms, there would be advantages to BHP in terms of ease of communicating with 
Barclays. This would especially be in the longer term, because although Mr C got on well 
with the relationship manager and area manager, no individual employee could be 
guaranteed to stay in a post indefinitely. 
I also bore in mind Barclays evidence, which I accepted, which said that pricing decisions 
would always need to be referred to its pricing team, regardless of whether those referrals 
came from a personal relationship manager or the direct relationship management team. So 
BHP was neither more or less likely to have a free banking extension from the new direct 
relationship management team. Regardless of what the area manager told Mr C verbally, I 
considered it was more likely than not that even if BHPs account hadnt been transferred to 
direct management, ultimately it would still have been the pricing team which had the last 
word and BHPs request for an extension would have been turned down. 
Although I was sympathetic to BHPs reluctance to change from an individual Mr C knew 
personally, I considered that Barclays was entitled to make the change it did here. I thought 
that by doing so, it was still treating BHP fairly as a customer in the individual circumstances.
There are two elements to Barclays refusal to extend the free banking period: the issue of 
misrepresentation by the area manager, and the decision itself. I considered them 
separately.
Refusal to extend free banking period  what the area manager promised
In relation to misrepresentation, I accepted Mr Cs evidence that the area manager did tell 
him verbally in January 2021 that extending the free banking wouldnt be a problem. This 
was borne out by the later text which she sent him after Barclays had notified BHP that the 
free banking would end in May 2021. Certainly the area managers text belatedly says cant 
guarantee it but it does specifically say that we had already agreed it and they need to look 
to honour it. 
The tone of this was very different from the same area managers 28 May 2021 internal 
email which said free banking was never agreed  the account is in Direct and it was up to 
them to refer on to Pricing desk when the customer moved on to them. The statement that 
pricing had been agreed meant that we had agreed to send it on as a request only.  I 
considered this internal email was significantly different from what BHP reasonably believed 
had been agreed.As Ive set out above, I accepted Barclays evidence that all requests for free banking 
extensions had to go through Barclays pricing team. So regardless of what the area 
manager had told Mr C verbally, I considered that the pricing team would have overturned 
her verbal promise. Mr C said he knows of other extensions to free banking which the area 
manager organised for other customers, but I explained that hed appreciate that I couldnt 
comment on that, only on the circumstances of his case.
I found that the area manager led Mr C to understand that an extension to the free banking 
wouldnt be a problem and was in her gift  when it wasnt. Barclays recognised this 
misinformation in awarding BHP £100 compensation. Although Barclays recognised the 
problem, I considered that £100 was too low for what was effectively a promise by the area 
manager, whom BHP believed to have the authority to back up what shed said. I considered 
£250 more realistically reflected the disappointment, and loss of expectation, which resulted 
from the area manager having promised something which wasnt within her authority and 
which she wasnt able to deliver.
Refusal to extend free banking period  what Barclays decided 
In terms of Barclays decision to refuse an extension to free banking, banks can take their 
own commercial decisions, and this service wouldnt normally intervene in this. 
In my provisional decision, I recognised that the decision seems harsh in the context of the 
Covid pandemic. BHPs business was primarily cash-based, selling its products at outlets 
and fairs which would have been closed or operating at a lower capacity, for most of the 
second year of BHPs free banking period. And as a cash business, business banking costs 
are more expensive because of the higher charges which a cash-based business incurs, 
compared to an electronic-based one. I hadnt seen any accounts which show evidence of 
financial hardship  compared to pre-Covid years of trading, for instance. But ultimately, any 
extension to free banking would have been discretionary, and for Barclays to decide. 
So it was hard for BHP to have lost the opportunity to maximise this benefit during its second 
year. But looking at what happened here  Barclays considered the application to extend the 
free banking period as it would for any other customer. It ultimately declined the application, 
as its entitled to. That wasnt the decision BHP wanted, but equally, it was a decision 
Barclays was able to make in line with the terms of the account here. I explained that it 
wasnt open to me to order Barclays to extend BHPs free banking for a further year, even 
taking into account the Covid pandemics effect on its business.
So my provisional decision was that, subject to comments by the parties, I intended to 
uphold this decision in part, and to order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay BHP a further £150 
compensation, making £250 in all. This would be for the loss of expectation and 
inconvenience caused by Barclays area managers misrepresentation that she had agreed a 
further year of free banking, when it wasnt within her authority to do so.
Responses to my provisional decision
BHP wasnt happy about my provisional decision. It said: 
We have been thrown under a bus in this instance and, as expected, all the support is 
with the corporate businesses with no consideration to the small guys who always have to 
bow, scrape and suffer. Morally and ethically it is all wrong. 
BHP also said that it makes no difference to you but it had just received an email about 
increased bank charges. It said under the management of a relationship manager it would 
never have happened in that way. It said there would have been a personal discussion and while the outcome would have been the same, it would have been accomplished in a more 
satisfactory manner. And any increase to its costs in present circumstances wasnt right, and 
it had only been a matter of months since the last increase.
Barclays said it acknowledged and accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr C, for BHP, remains very unhappy with the outcome of this complaint. 
And Im sorry about that. But this service does act impartially, as a fair and free alternative to 
the courts. We take decisions by considering all the evidence, and its not correct that we 
only support corporate business without considering a consumers point of view. My 
provisional decision - which increased the compensation for BHP - was in line with this 
impartiality.
I cant comment on the recent increase in charges which Barclays notified to BHP. Thats not 
because of any bias, but simply that the rules that apply to this service set out that 
consumers have to have raised complaints with the bank first. So I dont have the legal 
power to comment on the recent increase in charges. 
Having reconsidered all the available evidence, I consider that the conclusions in my 
provisional decision were fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this decision in part, and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay BHP a further £150 compensation, making £250 in all. This is for the loss of expectation 
and inconvenience caused by Barclays area managers misrepresentation that she had 
agreed a further year of free banking, when it wasnt within her authority to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman