DRN-3607456
The Complaint
This complaint concerns a claim against Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) under the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to two credit card transactions made by Mr H.
The claim, which is the subject of this complaint, is Mr Hs, because it relates to a credit card 
in his sole name  which is why the complaint is now only in his name. But as the 
transactions in question relate to contracts entered into by both Mr H and his wife, Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs H throughout much of this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs H purchased membership of a holiday club from Provider A on 22 November 
2012 (the First Purchase) and Provider B on 20 March 2013 (the Second Purchase). The 
purchases were £4,995 and £2,000 respectively. And in return, Mr and Mrs H were attributed 
points that entitled them to holidays.
Mr and Mrs H helped to finance the purchases using a credit card in Mr Hs name. And 
according to extracts from two credit card statements, his card was used to pay £1,000 and 
£487.12 in relation to the First and Second Purchases respectively.
Unhappy with what had happened after the purchases in question, Mr and Mrs H wrote to 
Lloyds via a professional representative (PR) on 6 March 2018 to complain and request a 
return on their now useless investment (the Letter of Complaint).
In summary, the Letter of Complaint said that Mr and Mrs H had used the product but were 
now worried that Provider A had been taken over by another company well known for asset 
stripping and even more worried because they had learnt that Provider A had made all of its 
sales staff redundant. The Letter also said that, when Mr and Mrs H contacted Provider A to 
book a holiday, they never could because they were repeatedly told that there wasnt any 
accommodation available. However, whenever they used the internet and a third-party 
website, they found that the holiday dates they [wanted] freely available. So, it was argued 
that they had paid thousands of pounds for something that wasnt available to them as
members.
Lloyds treated the Letter of Complaint as a claim under Section 75 of the CCA. And it 
concluded, after its investigation, that there wasnt any evidence of a misrepresentation or 
breach of contract.
So, Mr and Mrs H referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  using PR as 
their representative. Their Complaint Form repeated much of what the Letter of Complaint 
had to say. However, as a complaint hadnt been made to Lloyds about its answer to Mr Hs 
CCA claim, an adjudicator asked PR to complain to Lloyds first.
Lloyds issued PR with its final response on 16 January 2019. And in summary, it agreed with 
its answer to the CCA claim and rejected the complaint.
In December 2020, Lloyds suggested that the Financial Ombudsman Service didnt have
jurisdiction to consider the First Purchase because there had been more than six years
between the date of that Purchase and the date the complaint was made.
An adjudicator emailed Lloyds in January 2021 to explain that, when a complaint is made
about the outcome of a Section 75 claim, the event complained about for the purpose of the
Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction was its answer to the claim.
The complaint was then passed to an investigator for an assessment. And having looked at
everything on file, he thought the Financial Ombudsman Service had jurisdiction but wasnt
persuaded that there was a reason to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the investigators assessment. They didnt give any particular
reasons for disagreeing. But the complaint was passed to me for the purpose of an
ombudsmans decision anyway.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 22 June 2022. As Lloyds no longer seemed to 
question whether the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider the merits of 
this complaint insofar as they relate to the First Purchase, I didnt think it was necessary to 
deal with jurisdiction. So, I focused my provisional findings on the merits. And in summary, 
I rejected the complaint because I wasnt persuaded that Lloyds had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by turning down Mr Hs CCA claim.
Neither side had anything to add in response to my PD. And as the deadline for responses 
has now been and gone, I have considered the complaint for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And with all of that being said, I still dont think the complaint should be upheld  which 
I realise will continue to be disappointing for Mr and Mrs H.
Lloyds still doesnt dispute that Mr H entered into a contract with Providers A and B for 
services financed by a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. And based on the 
information Ive seen, I still havent seen anything persuasive to suggest Section 75 wouldnt 
apply to the First and Second Purchases.
However, as I said in my PD, this complaint seems to relate almost entirely to the difficulty 
Mr and Mrs H say they had booking holidays due to limited availability  which they seem to
have attributed to Provider A rather than Provider B. In fact, the Letter of Complaint says
very little about why Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Provider B. And while that might be
because PR considered Provider B a marketing agent of Provider A on the basis that the
points it provided Mr and Mrs H with happened to share the same name as Provider A, 
I still cant see anything particularly persuasive to suggest that the Second Purchase was 
simply an upgrade on the First.
Whats more, in neither the Letter of Complaint nor Complaint Form was it said that there
had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract under Section 75 of the CCA  nor can 
I see an allegation that the relationship between Mr H and Lloyds was rendered unfair
because of its own acts and/or omissions or those of Providers A and/or B. And as that 
hasnt been clarified in response to my PD, it still isnt entirely clear what type of claim had 
been made by PR on behalf of Mr H and, in turn, whether it related to Provider B as well as 
Provider A  on whom the Letter of Complaint focused.Nonetheless, as Ive said before, Lloyds treated the Letter of Complaint as a Section 75 
claim. And as it was said in the Letter of Complaint that Mr and Mrs H were consistently told 
by Provider A that there wasnt any accommodation available whenever they tried to book a 
holiday when they say they could find the accommodation in question via a third-party 
website, the closest claim that the Letter came to making remains, in my view, for a breach 
of contract.
But, as I said in my PD, even if that was the claim being made by PR on behalf of Mr H, 
I cant ignore the fact that the same Letter suggests that Mr and Mrs H had used the product 
they purchased from Provider A. The terms and conditions attached to the purchase 
agreement between Mr and Mrs H and Provider A also stipulate that all of the 
accommodation was subject to availability. And while Mr and Mrs H say that there was 
always availability on a third-party website whenever they tested the claims of Provider A 
that there wasnt any availability, they still havent been specific about the criteria they used 
during their searches  nor have they provided any supporting evidence that would reliably 
corroborate the suggestion that Provider A wasnt living up to its end of the bargain by telling 
them that there wasnt any availability when, on the basis of their own like-for-like searches, 
there was.
Overall, therefore, given the information available to me, Im still not persuaded that Lloyds 
acted unfairly or unreasonably when it turned down Mr Hs claim.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman