DRN-3199912
The complaint and what happened
Miss M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed a direct debit to be set up on her bank 
account, that wasnt authorised by her.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
Miss M was contacted by a mobile phone network provider, letting her know she was 
due a new phone. They knew her account number and other details. Unbeknownst to 
her, they were fraudsters. During this process it appears they took out a new contract 
and set up a new direct debit to pay for that contract. 
Miss M realised what had happened and contacted HSBC, who cancelled the direct 
debit immediately. She complained about the setting up of the direct debit and about 
how HSBC had handled the matter. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint as the 
mandate instruction had been electronic from a legitimate originator. But it did offer 
£50 for the service failings. 
Our investigator was satisfied HSBC didnt need to do anything further and explained 
to Miss M that a copy of the mandate couldnt be provided as it had been electronic. 
Miss M has asked for the matter to be reviewed, she still wants to see a copy of a 
signed mandate, particularly as the network provider has told her it didnt authorise a 
mandate. She is also unhappy that security measures she put in place to be 
contacted before a new mandate is set up havent been followed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure both parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
HSBC has explained the direct debit instruction came via AUDDIS  that is, 
electronically  and it was from the same originator as the mobile network provider. 
As that is a legitimate party, I see no reason why it ought to have questioned that 
instruction when received or have suspicions about it.  
HSBC acted quickly when told it wasnt legitimate and Im pleased to see Miss M 
didnt suffer a financial loss at the hands of fraudsters. 
I understand Miss M would like to see a copy of a signed mandate. But it isnt 
possible to provide something that doesnt exist. As this was an electronic instruction, 
there is no signed mandate, indeed, there is no mandate at all per se; just an 
electronic instruction to set up a payment. Im afraid Miss Ms continued request for a 
copy of the mandate is unlikely to elicit a different response. 
Miss M has been directed to the network provider for a copy of the instruction. She 
has told us it says it didnt authorise an instruction. That may well be the case given 
this appears to have all been done by fraudsters; that it didnt authorise an instruction 
doesnt mean it didnt necessarily originate from it. Or it may be that the originator 
information was fabricated by the fraudsters. But this is speculation on my part; if 
Miss M wants more details about this, shell need to contact the network provider for 
more information, but the reality is where fraudsters are involved some details may 
never be known with any degree of certainty. 
Miss M has told us that provisions she put in place to stop new direct debits being set 
up hasnt worked, as one was set up recently without her being contacted. The bank 
has told us that hasnt happened  but even if it has, its new issue which Miss M will 
need to complain about to the bank in the first instance if she isnt happy. And it has 
no bearing on whether or not HSBC did anything wrong when receiving the 
instruction at the heart of this dispute.
HSBC has offered Miss M £50 for its poor customer service. I havent seen anything 
to persuade me the impact of its poor service warrants a higher award. 
I do understand why Miss M feels strongly about this matter. But Im not persuaded HSBC 
did anything wrong when receiving the direct debit instruction. I therefore wont be upholding 
this complaint or asking it to pay additional compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has already fairly 
resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Miss M £50 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman