DRN-3968625
The complaint
Mr S complains Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) took around £248 from his account, and it had 
no basis on which to apply an arrestment order for it to do so. 
What happened
In November 2019, BoS received an arrestment order from a company who are Sheriff 
Officers  I will call them Company W going ahead. The order said that by virtue of a 
Summary Warrant granted under the application of a local council  who I will not name 
expressly here - a maximum sum of around £1,597 is to be arrested by BoS from Mr S. 
BoS then moved around £248 from Mr S account into one of its holding accounts. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S complained. BoS did not uphold Mr S complaint. In summary it said 
that when a court issues an order for arrestment, its obliged to comply. It added that the 
sheriff officer was Company W, and the pursuer was the local council. 
Unhappy with BoSs answer, Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators then looked into Mr S complaint. They didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
In short, some of the key points they made were: 
- BoS acted on a legal form of debt collection which is enforceable by the sheriffs 
office  and this wouldve been agreed by the courts 
- Once BoS received the schedule of arrestment in execution, they were obliged to 
comply with it. BoS applied the order correctly and removed the correct amount of 
money from Mr S account 
- If Mr S disagrees with the arrestment of funds order he will need to contact either a 
solicitor, the Sheriff Officer, the creditor or the Scottish Courts and Tribunal Service 
Mr S did not agree with what our Investigator said.  In short, he says there is no debt as 
credit agreements and financial instruments are monetised, and as legal and equitable rights 
are assigned to agents, there cannot be action against the beneficiary. He also points to 
there being no obligation to make payments to any council  and that no court in Scotland 
can make such an arrestment order. 
He also says a council doesnt have the power to conduct its own hearings. 
As Mr S doesnt agree, I will now decide this matter.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S, 
so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so mainly by using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything Mr S and BoS have said 
before reaching my decision. 
Its important to note, my decision focuses on BoS actions in regard to Mr S current 
account. It is not my role to determine the legal validity and basis of any rules and 
regulations  but I will of course take into account any that are relevant here. 
So that means my decision will consider whether I think BoS has acted in line with any 
obligations placed upon it, and that its acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
BoS have given me a copy of the schedule of arrestment in execution order that it was sent 
by Company W. Having done some investigation, Im satisfied that Company W are a firm of 
Messenger-at-Arms and Sheriff Officers. Their role, broadly speaking, is to provide a range 
of debt recovery, enforcement and investigative services in Scotland. 
Having looked at the order, Im satisfied that its a legal form of debt collection which is 
enforceable by the sheriffs office  in this case Company W. Given the debt this order 
relates to, it is my understanding that a Council has some autonomy to issue such an order 
without the courts direct involvement. 
So taken together, Im satisfied that this was order BoS had an obligation to comply with. 
Having seen Mr S statements for November 2019, Im also satisfied BoS applied the order 
correctly. That means I dont think BoS have done anything wrong  nor that it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. 
Given the basis of much of Mr S arguments relate to the legal basis of this action, he may 
want to consider seeking independent legal. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman