DRN-3610059
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain HSBC UK Bank Plc provided them with incorrect information when 
they were looking to make a lump sum reduction to their mortgage; and didnt action their 
instructions to cancel future overpayments.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D contacted HSBC in July 2021 to make a lump sum reduction of £15,000 to 
their mortgage. They say they also asked to cancel the overpayments theyd been making 
due to a change in their circumstances. 
HSBC has said Mr and Mrs D were initially provided with incorrect information during a call 
about the lump sum reduction; but this was corrected when the call was transferred to 
another colleague. It has said that two months direct debits including the overpayments 
were incorrectly collected. HSBC offered to return the overpayments to Mr and Mrs D and 
pay £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and considered HSBCs offer to put things right was 
fair. He said HSBC had acknowledged the errors it had made, and had looked to put Mr and 
Mrs D back in the financial position they would have been in had the errors not occurred (he 
noted that Mr and Mrs D hadnt accepted the return of the overpayment amounts as they 
didnt want their mortgage balance to increase). He said he felt £150 was a fair offer for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. In summary, they said they were put under a lot of additional 
pressure because of HSBCs errors at a time that was already stressful due to their personal 
and financial circumstances.
I recently contacted both parties setting out why I considered HSBCs offer to refund the two 
overpayments incorrectly collected  and increase Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage balance to 
reflect this refund  was fair. But I considered its offer of £150 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused because of the errors should be increased to £300.
I said this because:
HSBC was aware of the change in Mr and Mrs Ds personal and financial circumstances 
which had been the reason to cancel the overpayments and reduce their monthly 
commitments;
HSBC took two further months worth of overpayments before Mr and Mrs D made it 
aware of the error and it looked to resolve the issue; and
Mr and Mrs D made HSBC aware of the impact the error had on them, at a time that they 
had said was already very stressful for them.
HSBC agreed to offer £300. Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with what Id proposed. In summary, 
they said:
HSBCs representatives gave wrong and misleading information and no information has 
been given about training for staff  and that one HSBC representative had said to Mr 
and Mrs D that this wasnt necessary; and
£300 doesnt fairly reflect the error of HSBC continuing to take two months worth of 
overpayments and the distress and inconvenience this caused them at an already 
stressful time.
Mr and Mrs D also provided further details of Mr Ds recent health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings I recently informed both 
parties of. 
HSBC has said that although Mr and Mrs D were provided with incorrect information during 
the call in July 2021, this was corrected when the call was transferred to a colleague. As 
such, I consider the wrong information was corrected quickly. So, while I accept this would 
have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs D, they havent been disadvantaged by the incorrect 
information. 
HSBC confirmed within its final response that the call had been listened to and feedback had 
been provided to that individual. It also confirmed all representatives are provided with 
extensive training and undergo ongoing coaching. So, I consider HSBC has taken 
appropriate action in line with what I would expect it to do here. 
HSBCs offer to refund the overpayments incorrectly collected would put Mr and Mrs D back 
in the position they would have been in had the error not occurred; ensuring no financial 
loss. Mr and Mrs D have declined this offer as theyve said they dont want their mortgage 
balance to increase; and as such they are now benefiting from lower interest payments as a 
result. Im satisfied HSBC has fairly looked to ensure Mr and Mrs D havent suffered a 
financial loss as a result of the error.
Ive gone on to consider the non-financial loss Mr and Mrs D say theyve suffered. Ive 
carefully considered the testimony theyve provided throughout the complaint, including in 
response to my recent correspondence. I want to assure Mr and Mrs D that Im in no way 
playing down what they have gone through because of this error. I accept this made an 
already stressful time worse and Ive taken that into account when making my decision.
However, HSBC wasnt responsible for Mr and Mrs Ds already difficult financial situation; or 
Mr Ds health. It wasnt until two months worth of overpayments were collected before Mr 
and Mrs D contacted HSBC to make them aware of the error. I consider it likely had they 
made HSBC aware of the error after the first overpayment had been incorrectly taken, it 
would have resolved the situation at that time without a further overpayment being collected.
So, while I accept the error worsened Mr and Mrs Ds situation, and that they had other 
priorities to contend with; they notified HSBC when they became aware of the error and it 
looked to put things right as soon as it was made aware, mitigating the impact this caused. 
Im therefore satisfied that a total award of £300 fairly reflects the increased impact and 
distress and inconvenience this error caused Mr and Mrs D.Putting things right
HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs D £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its 
error caused.  
HSBC has confirmed its offer to refund the overpayments is still available to Mr and Mrs D 
should they now wish to accept it. If they would, they should contact HSBC directly to 
arrange this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my recent correspondence, Im upholding Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc and it should pay them £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience theyve been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman