DRN-3115287
The complaint
Mrs Q complains about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with and settled 
a claim on her car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Q was involved in an accident in her car with a third party, so she claimed on her policy. 
Mrs Q said the third party had turned onto the road she was on too fast and had hit Mrs Q, 
who was stationary. Mrs Q also provided details of a witness to RSA.  
RSA looked into the claim and tried to hold the third party at fault for the accident. The third 
party said Mrs Q was pulling out of the road they were turning into and their cars collided. 
RSA reviewed the witness statement but as they hadnt actually seen the accident didnt 
think it was one they could rely on if it went to court. Because of this RSA agreed to settle 
the claim on a without prejudice 50/50 basis. Mrs Q didnt think that was fair and complained, 
as she didnt receive a response Mrs Q referred her complaint here. 
RSA sent its file on the complaint and didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said as the 
third party hadnt seen the accident and Mrs Q and the third partys version of events 
differed, it didnt think it would be a claim it could win if it went to court.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt find RSA had done anything wrong. He 
found that RSA had considered both sides of what happened, and that RSAs legal opinion 
was this wasnt one it could win if it went to court. Mrs Q disagreed, she said RSAs 
management of the claim hadnt been good enough. 
As Mrs Q disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Qs policy, like most policies we see, give RSA the right to 
take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make a 
decision Mrs Q disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third 
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether RSA made a reasonable decision in doing 
this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
In Mrs Qs case RSA obtained Mrs Qs side of events along with the witness details. Mrs Q 
said she was stationary in a side road when the third party turned right into the side road, 
driving too fast, and crashed into Mrs Q. 
The third party said Mrs Q was pulling out of the side road as they went to turn into it when 
their cars collided. The witness statement said they didnt see the accident but saw the third 
partys car driving just before the accident. 
From RSAs claim notes I can see it initially tried to defend the claim and hold the third party 
fully liable for the accident. However, as the third party disputed this, and Mrs Qs witness 
didnt see the accident, RSA didnt think this was one it would be able to win if it went to 
court. Because of this it said the best possible outcome would be to settle the claim on a 
50/50 basis. As RSA tried to hold the third party fully liable and took into account both 
parties side of the event, along with the witness statement and its legal opinion. Im satisfied 
RSA has made a fair and reasonable decision in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered Mrs Qs point about RSAs handling of the claim. From the claim notes I 
can see RSA let Mrs Q know it thought the best possible outcome would be a 50/50 
settlement around a month after the claim. When RSA deals with a claim it needs to do so 
promptly, and Im satisfied this is a reasonable time in this case. I can also see though that 
Mrs Q made attempts to contact RSA, after it informed her about the settlement of the claim, 
to raise a complaint but RSA didnt respond. While I appreciate this would be frustrating and 
is disappointing to see, Im not able to consider complaint handling. And as RSAs failings 
are in relation to its complaint handling its not one Im able to award for.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman