DRN-3981200
The complaint
Mr C complains about Assurant General Insurances Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under his gadget insurance after he lost his mobile phone.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr C had gadget insurance underwritten by Assurant. He made a claim in July 2022 after his 
mobile phone was either lost or stolen.
Mr C says he bought the phone in June 2022 and used it only for taking photographs or 
videos. He didnt make calls or texts or use data on his phone.
The policy was taken out on 19 July 2022. Mr C says the phone was lost or stolen on 20 July 
and that was reported to the Police on 21 July. The claim was made on 27 July.
Assurant declined the claim. They said they had nothing to substantiate that the phone has 
been in Mr Cs possession at any point after hed taken out the policy.
Mr C wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Assurant. When they maintained their 
position, Mr C brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought 
Assurant hadnt given Mr C a fair chance to produce any evidence that the phone was in his 
possession after he bought the policy.
On that basis he asked Assurant to re-consider the claim, taking into account any further 
evidence Mr C might be able to produce. And he asked Assurant to pay Mr C £100 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Assurant disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. They think the claim 
was handled correctly and in a timely manner. And they dont agree with the proposed 
compensation, which they say is for issues Mr C didnt include in his original complaint to 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs policy says that when a policyholder makes a claim, theyre expected to provide proof 
of ownership of the lost or damaged item, such as a till or on-line receipt.
Mr C should have no difficulty providing that given that he bought the phone in June 2022. 
But Assurant havent asked him for that because it wouldnt prove that Mr C had the phone 
in his possession when he bought the policy (in July 2022, the month after he bought the 
phone).
The policy is clear that it will only cover loss or damage thats happened since the policy was 
taken out. And it goes on to say:
If your gadget is a mobile phone we may ask for evidence or contact the network 
directly in order to verify that the mobile phone was being used after the start date of 
this policy. If we are unable to validate the mobile phone was being used we may 
decline your claim.
Clearly, Assurant have that clause in their policy because otherwise, they would be open to 
unscrupulous individuals only taking out a policy after their gadget has already been lost, 
stolen or damaged.
I dont think theres anything unfair or unreasonable about that policy term. And its stated 
clearly and given due prominence in the policy documentation.
In all the circumstances, I also have no problem with Assurant asking Mr C in this case to 
provide proof that he had the phone after he bought the policy. And its clear Mr C hasnt as 
yet provided any such evidence.
The issue I do have with Assurants actions in this case is that they havent asked Mr C to 
provide any such evidence, or indeed listened to anything Mr C has had to say about how he 
might prove that he was in possession of the phone when  and after  he bought the policy.
In other words, theyve assumed that the only possible way to evidence possession of the 
phone after the policys inception is through records of usage provided by the network 
provider.
Clearly, Mr C isnt going to be able to produce that evidence because he says he uses the 
phone only to take photographs and videos.
Looking at the policy term quoted above, I note that Assurant say they may ask for evidence 
or contact the network (my emphasis). Which suggests they think there may be other 
evidence which might prove possession at the relevant time as well as  and separately from 
 evidence from the network provider.
It also says that Assurant may (again, my emphasis) decline a claim if they arent able to 
validate that the mobile phone was being used. Which presumably leaves them some 
discretion to make a decision based on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In my view, when they receive a claim and have concerns about the possession of the 
gadget in question, Assurant (having explained they will need proof of possession) should 
invite the policyholder to produce any evidence or information which might support the claim. 
They should then take that and any other available evidence or information into account 
when making a decision about the claim.
That didnt happen in this case. In fact, when Assurant contacted Mr C, they were adamant 
that they needed usage records from the network provider, or the claim would be declined. 
And it was clear there wouldnt be any such records given what Mr C said about his use of 
the phone.
Assurant didnt give Mr C any real chance to state his case or allow him to think about or 
discuss other ways to prove the phone was in his possession.Assurant did go into great detail with Mr C about the circumstances surrounding the loss of 
the phone. Even questioning him, in a very direct manner, about what shops he went to the 
following day and how he paid for the items he bought there  facts which appear on the 
face of it, entirely irrelevant to the claim in hand.
At times, in those conversations, the manner of Assurants employee was blunt and 
dismissive, if not rude. And, as a consequence, I dont think Mr C had any idea at all that he 
might be able to provide other evidence to support his claim  and/or that any such evidence 
would be taken properly into account.
Putting things right
Given the nature of the conversations between Assurant and Mr C - and Assurants clear 
assumption that the only evidence that might be of any use would be usage records from the 
network provider  Im satisfied Assurant havent properly and fairly considered Mr Cs claim.
And so, I agree with our investigator that Assurant now need to give Mr C an opportunity to 
provide any evidence or information he has which might suggest the phone was indeed in 
his possession at the alleged time of the loss.
It is entirely possible that Mr C will not be able to provide anything to substantiate his claim. 
And that Assurant will, in all the circumstances, decline it. But if so, they will have come to 
that conclusion via a route that is fair to Mr C and which takes all the available evidence into 
account.
I also agree that Mr C wasnt treated fairly and reasonably in the communications with 
Assurant, particularly the phone calls about the claim. That must have been frustrating, 
annoying and upsetting for Mr C. And I agree that £100 is fair compensation for Mr Cs 
trouble and upset.
Assurant have said they dont think we can make an award for alleged failings in customer 
service because Mr C didnt complain to them about those issues and so would need to 
raise a new complaint with them - and give them the chance to resolve it  before he brings 
that to us.
I dont agree with that view. I think its a very reductive way to look a Mr Cs complaint. He 
complained about the decision to decline the claim, but its wrong, in my opinion, to say that 
means he didnt express concerns about the way he was treated whilst the claim was being 
considered. 
Taking a more complete view of it, Mr Cs concerns were about the means of getting to the 
decision to decline the claim as well as the actual decision itself. And the decision was 
reached, at least in part, on the basis of the conversations with Mr C. 
So, Im satisfied that we can look at the way Mr C was treated in those conversations and 
communications as part of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited must:
give Mr C an opportunity to provide any further information or evidence he thinks may 
support his claim; thenre-consider the claim in light of any further evidence provided by Mr C; and
pay Mr C £100 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman