DRN-3129939
The complaint
Miss L has complained that TM Advances Limited was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
In December 2018 Miss L applied online for a loan from TM for £3,000. The loan was taken 
out over 40 months with an APR of 149.1% and her monthly repayments were £249 making 
the total repayable at the end of the term £9,960. 
Miss L complained that TM hadnt properly checked the loan was affordable for her. 
TM didnt agree that it hadnt carried out proper checks. It said it had carried out two credit 
searches and verified her income. It thought the purpose of the loan, her credit profile and 
her explanation at the time of her application that she wanted to consolidate her loans were 
all reasonable.
Miss L referred her complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ls complaint and thought TM shouldnt have lent the loan. As 
TM disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions 
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ls complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did TM complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss L would 
be able to repay loan in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did TM act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required TM to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so TM had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for TM to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
With regard to the first question Miss L told TM her net monthly income was £2,760. She 
owned her home outright, so she didnt have to pay a mortgage or rent. She said she paid 
£350 a month to a relative for a car loan and £486 on other credit commitments. That meant 
after living costs of £1,146 she had a disposable monthly income of £778.
However one credit search carried out by TM showed there was a high risk of Miss L 
having repayment problems and that she had a very high level of indebtedness. It also 
showed that she was near the limit on one credit card and very near to the limit on two 
more, all of which had been taken out in 2018. Shed taken out a loan in May 2018 with a 
balance of £3,634 and one in October 2018 with a balance of £1,500. Another credit search 
showed that Miss L had 14 active credit accounts and 7 of them had been opened in the 6 
months before she applied to TM for a loan. This indicates to me that Miss Ls financial 
situation was probably deteriorating at this stage.
In the light of this I think TM should have been concerned about Miss Ls need for credit. It 
seems to have accepted at face value that she would have a monthly disposable income of 
£778 when the pattern of her borrowing showed that she was having difficulty managing her 
money. I think the credit checks might reasonably have cast some doubt on the accuracy of 
the information provided by Miss L.Simply performing credit checks isnt necessarily enough. A lender needs to take proper 
account of what those checks show. Miss L was entering into a relatively long loan 
agreement of 40 months and over that period shed be required to pay £9,960. So, I think it 
would have been reasonable and proportionate here for TM to ask for more information 
about Miss Ls financial situation and to verify her actual monthly expenditure. It could have 
done this by, for example, requesting bank statements from Miss L and by asking her for 
more information about her existing credit commitments. As I cant see it did this, I dont 
think the checks TM carried out before providing Miss L with her loan were reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But that in itself doesn't mean that Miss Ls complaint should succeed. I also need to be 
persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown TM that she 
couldn't sustainably afford the loan. Miss L has provided some bank statements from around 
the time she applied for the loan. Im not suggesting here that these are the checks that TM 
should necessarily have done. But I think looking at these gives a very good indication of 
Miss Ls financial situation around the time she applied for the loan from TM.
Ive reviewed Miss Ls bank statements in the two month period before she applied for the 
loan. I can see in both months she received amounts exceeding in total her salary from 
various lenders and also her payments in respect of credit commitments exceeded her 
salary. In short they paint a picture of someone in deep financial trouble. So if TM had made 
further checks, I think it would have discovered that Miss L was spending way beyond her 
means and had been for some time and that further credit was likely to make her situation 
worse.
In summary, if TM had carried out the further checks that I think were needed for this loan, I 
think it ought reasonably to have realised that Miss Ls financial problems were not going to 
be improved by it making this loan. And it would have probably seen that there was a 
significant risk that Miss L wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay the loan. So I dont 
think that TM treated Miss L fairly when it agreed to lend to her as it was likely that giving her 
more credit would simply add to her indebtedness.
Ive also thought about whether TM acted unfairly in some other way and I havent seen any 
evidence that it did. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think TM should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan,
treat any payments made by Miss L as payments towards the capital amount of 
£3,000,
if Miss L has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to 
her with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement,
but if theres still an outstanding balance, TM should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Miss L.
remove any adverse information about the loan from Miss Ls credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TM to take off tax from this interest. TM must give Miss L a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. TM Advances Limited should 
put things right for Miss L as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman