DRN-2135208
The complaint
Ms H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This policy was added to the account in 1997, when Ms H applied for her store card in the 
store. It covered her in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Hs case. Ive also read carefully through Ms Hs 
correspondence alongside the file as a whole, and I appreciate her taking the time to set out 
her concerns. With that said, Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is most relevant. 
So if I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to notice it or take it 
on board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Having considered the case, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Hs store card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It offered 
her the choice to take or turn down PPI, with a box which could be ticked if she wanted it, or 
which could be left blank if she didnt want it. The box was ticked, and Ms H signed the form 
to confirm what was on it. The PPI was not a condition of the lending.
I understand that Ms H feels strongly that the box for PPI was ticked without her permission. 
It would have been a very serious failing for AXA to have misled Ms H into having PPI in 
such a way. But I have no evidence which shows that the box was ticked without Ms Hs 
consent. Ive not seen any wider problems with AXAs sales process from the time  indeed, 
from what Ive seen, the normal process was to offer customers a choice about buying PPI 
and to only add it if the customer actively chose it. And Ive not seen anything which makes 
me think that this sale differed substantially from the normal process, nor anything which 
makes me think that this agreement was tampered with. I also need to bear in mind that it 
would be quite unsurprising for someone not to remember buying the policy  this sale was 
particularly long ago and buying insurance is not often memorable. So considering the 
evidence I have and the balance of probabilities, I think its most likely that Ms H was given a 
choice about buying PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can completely 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
AXA didnt give Ms H tailored advice about buying PPI  this was a non-advised sales 
process. That means AXA didnt have to ask about her circumstances or check that the 
policy was right for her. AXA did have to give Ms H enough information about the policy, so 
that she could decide for herself whether the policy was right for her.
It is possible that the information AXA gave Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind, based on my assessment of her circumstances at the time.
Here, it looks to me like Ms H chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this 
type of cover at the time. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances, it looks like she was 
eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. The PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of Ms Hs sick pay and offered her more comprehensive cover. And 
while I appreciate that her family may have been happy to help out, there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed  and in any case, this policy meant she 
wouldnt have to ask her family to pay her store card for her if she fell on difficult times. I also 
appreciate that Ms H was young and healthy at the time, but accidents, illnesses and 
redundancies can and do happen, even to people who are otherwise young and healthy. So 
the policy could have been useful for Ms H in case something went wrong. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it 
out at the time  though I accept Ms H may disagree with me on this point.
Ms H mentioned that a different company mis-sold her a PPI policy, and I understand why 
she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even if 
one given PPI policy was mis-sold, it doesnt necessarily mean that a different one was, too. 
We look at each case on its own merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found this 
particular policy to have been mis-sold.
Lastly, I understand Ms H is unhappy with the way her complaint was handled. Im afraid 
I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  for 
example, the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and 
of itself. Ill also mention that in this decision I can only look at what AXA did as the insurer, 
and not at what the lender did. So while Im sorry to hear that Ms H found the complaints 
process so stressful, I cant consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale 
of her PPI.My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman