DRN-3076684
The complaint
 Mrs F complains that Advantage Finance Ltd refused to let her reject a faulty car and when 
it did do so it didnt reimburse her for incidental costs.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to the parties so I will give a brief summary. Mrs 
F acquired a car in October 2018. It was elderly and had covered some 76,33 miles. It cost 
£3,999 all of which was funded by a hire purchase agreement. This was repayable by 34 
monthly payments of £163.54 and one of £338.54.
The car proved to be faulty and ceased running in early June 2019 with some 82,000 miles 
on the clock. An initial independent report concluded the faults had not been present at the 
point of sale, but a second report came to a different conclusion. This second report took 
place after Mrs F brought her complaint to this service.
Advantage accepted the second report and the agreement was unwound and the car was 
returned. It suggested that Mrs F pay for nine months use of the car as her mileage was 
equivalent to nine months of the national average for car use. I gather Mrs F indicated she 
accepted this, but she continued to pursue her complaint with this service. She submitted 
two receipts for car hire which she said she had incurred due to the car not being useable.
Our investigator said he thought Advantage should pay for the car hire, but it disagreed so 
the matter has been referred to me.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I said it was agreed that the car was faulty at the point of sale and for the avoidance of doubt 
I could confirm I considered Mrs F was entitled to reject it. The only remaining issue was the 
matter of redress.
I agreed that Mrs F should make some contribution for the use she had of the car. She had 
the use of car from 27 October 2018 until early June 2019. This meant she had use of it for 
eight months. During this time, she covered some 5,658 miles. I didnt consider apportioning 
the mileage covered by reference to a national average to be a reasonable way of identifying 
what contribution she should make. I thought it better that she pay the monthly instalments 
for the months she was able to use the car. As such I believed she should be liable for eight 
monthly payments of £163.54.
She had also suffered trouble and upset of having to deal with a faulty car which lasted for 
only some eight months. I considered she was entitled to compensation for that and I 
considered £150 to be fair.
When it failed she was left without access to transport and had to hire a car which I 
considered to be an incidental cost arising from the faulty car and I said that this should also 
be covered by Advantage. She had little time to prepare for organising transport and I 
thought it was reasonable to conclude this cost was a direct result of the car breaking down. 
The documentation I had for that cost is an estimate and I would like to see that actual sum 
paid by Mrs F.
However, I didnt consider the cost of the car hire in October 2019 to be reimbursable by 
Advantage. Mrs F had sufficient time to source alternative transport and I believed she 
acquired replacement car not long after this. I also presumed she paid for the second 
independent inspection and this service takes the view that the business should pay for such 
costs where the complaint is successful. I said that subject to a receipt being provided this 
cost should be borne by Advantage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mrs F accepted my provisional decision and Advantage said that it had already paid 
compensation of £150. It asked for copies of the receipts for the car hire and Mrs Fs bank 
details.
It seems that both parties have accepted my provisional decision. Advantage retain only 
eight months worth of payments and return any paid beyond that. I believe that means she 
is entitled to the return of a months payment. I consider the total compensation should be 
£150 and the car hire costs as set out in my provisional decision should be paid by 
Advantage subject to receiving a copy of the paid invoice.
Putting things right
 Advantage should amend its redress as set out below. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Advantage Finance Ltd to retain 
eight months payments only and it should also cover the cost of the first car hire subject to it 
being given evidence of payment. I consider compensation for trouble and upset is payable 
of £150 in total. I gather this has already been paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman