DRN-4501754
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the settlement hes been given by Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) 
following the theft of his motorbike.
What happened
Mr G insured his motorbike with Ageas. During a trip abroad, Mr Gs motorbike was stolen, 
so he made a claim to Ageas.
Ageas accepted the claim and initially offered a settlement of £11,781. As Mr G was 
unhappy with this, they increased the settlement to £13,500 (before excess deduction). 
Mr G says the settlement should be around £16,000. As he remained unhappy with the 
settlement paid by Ageas, he approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He was 
satisfied Ageas settlement offer was reasonable, so he didnt recommend they do anything 
further.
Mr G didnt agree so the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr G, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Gs policy says that in the event of a claim, the most Ageas will pay is up to the market 
value. This is defined in the policy as:
Market Value
The cost of replacing your motorcycle with a motorcycle of the same make, model, 
specification, age, mileage and condition as your motorcycle was immediately before 
the loss or damage you are claiming for.
Ageas determined the market value of Mr Gs motorbike using valuations obtained through 
an industry trade guide  Glasss - and this gave a valuation of £11,781.
Mr G was unhappy with this, as he didnt think this was enough based on his motorbike and 
the options it had. Ageas revisited things, including speaking to a manufacturer dealer of 
these types of bikes. Following the discussion with the dealer, Ageas increased the 
settlement offer to £13,500. This has been paid to Mr G, minus the excess deduction.
Mr G disputes the valuation is fair and thinks this should be around £16,000.
When investigating Mr Gs complaint, our investigator checked other available trade guides 
and obtained a further valuation from Percayso. This produced a valuation of £12,768, so 
lower than the amount already paid by Ageas. 
Deciding the market value of a vehicle isnt an exact science. Usually in cases this service 
considers about motor valuation disputes, as a starting point, wed take into account what 
the different industry trade guides say the market valuation is. Wed also take into account 
any other available information, such as expert or specialist reports or opinions, adverts and 
any other information available.
Mr G has provided various adverts of bikes available for sale online at a higher value than 
hes been given. However, these are for the newer version/model of Mr Gs bike. The newer 
version has a higher availability than Mr Gs exact model, so hes been able to obtain more 
examples. But as they are for the newer version, I dont find these adverts persuasive in 
demonstrating the valuation Ageas has offered is unfair for Mr Gs model of motorbike. 
Having carried out an online search from well-known online vehicle sales agents, I havent 
seen any evidence to support the valuation for Mr Gs vehicle should be in the region of 
£16,000. And Mr G hasnt provided any evidence, such as adverts of his model of bike, 
which show the value should be in the range of £16,000 either.
However, like I say, we usually check the market trade guides as a starting point, along with 
adverts. But neither of these support that Ageas valuation is unfair. But in addition to this, 
Ageas consulted a manufacturer dealer of these bikes, and theyve confirmed that the 
valuation placed on the bike is reasonable, including the extras, based on their experience of 
selling these bikes. Given they are a manufacturer dealer, I find their views and conclusions 
on the market value persuasive.
They also highlighted that Mr Gs bike model has been superseded by a newer model (which 
is the model in many of the adverts Mr G provided), and there is a newer version coming 
soon too. So, this will impact on the price of Mr Gs specific model of motorbike.
Ive considered the additional information and points Mr G has provided, but this isnt 
sufficient to persuade me the valuation reached by Ageas was unfair or unreasonable. With 
the above in mind, I wont be directing Ageas to increase the settlement amount.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman