DRN-1396370
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold 
her a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001 
when she applied for a credit card.
What happened
Mrs M complained to this Service. She bought a PPI policy in 2001 by completing a postal 
application form. She says she wasnt told it was optional and she didnt need it; she says 
she was told during a meeting at an office that she needed PPI to get the credit card 
application approved. She says she didnt need PPI as she had good employee benefits 
and savings. She concludes the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs M disagreed 
with our adjudicator's view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
Mrs M added more recently the she bought the PPI through a telephone sale  
the credit agreement was sent in the post later for her to sign.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs M's case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs M's complaint. I know this will 
be a disappointing result, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Barclays made it clear the policy was an optional product. Mrs M 
first said the PPI was sold during a meeting, then she more recently said the PPI was sold 
during a telephone call and the credit agreement was sent to her to sign. But in this case, 
Barclays produced a copy of Mrs M's credit card application. It was sent to her home 
address and it invited her to sign the form and return it to Barclays. So in the absence of 
any other persuasive evidence, I think this PPI was sold on the postal application form.
I can see there was a section on the form headed Barclaycard Payment Protection with a 
tick box next to the statement: Yes, please can I apply for Barclaycard Payment 
Protection. 
I can see Mrs M signed the credit card application and ticked the box for PPI. She entered 
her personal details and I noted she accepted another offer on the form. So I think she 
completed the form diligently by choosing the products she wanted. I think her signature 
means Barclays probably made it clear enough that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to 
remember this.
I noted Mrs M was eligible to buy PPI. The policy wasn't recommended so Barclays had to 
make sure Mrs M received enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so 
she could make an informed decision.
Its possible the information given to Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should
have been. But as I think she chose to take it out, it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong 
because she told Barclays she had no savings and employee benefits. So I think the PPI 
could have been useful if she wasnt able to work or had lost her job. 
Barclays should also have pointed out the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). I don't know how it did this, but it does not appear that Mrs M was affected 
by the main exclusions. So - even if shed been given a full list of the exclusions - I 
dont think it would have put her off from buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional and 
Mrs M was probably given enough information to make an informed decision. So I am 
not going to uphold this complaint.
All of this means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs 
M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she said about her 
employee benefits and savings. But Mrs M didnt tell us exactly how much she had in 
savings and Barclays said she told them she had no savings at the time of the sale. So 
I think the PPI would probably have been of value to her; and I think the PPI could have 
lasted for longer than and in addition to her employee benefits, so these points dont 
change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M. 
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman