DRN-1870610
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Mapre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. have declined her claim for the cost of medical treatment despite the further medical 
evidence she has provided.
 What happened
Mrs M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy with Mapfre in July 2017 to cover her 
for a trip to Spain in September 2017. When she bought the policy she declared a number of 
medical conditions and cover was confirmed for these.
While in Spain she was taken ill and admitted to hospital with shortness of breath and 
arrhythmia. She was diagnosed as suffering from an atrial flutter, heart failure with 
pulmonary oedema and required re-stenosis of her previous aortic valve replacement. Mrs 
M had surgery in Spain and submitted a claim to Mapfre to cover the cost of her treatment. 
Mapfre declined her claim as they said Mrs M had failed to disclose a history of angina and 
ischaemic heart disease (IHD). And had she disclosed these further medical conditions they 
said they wouldn't have been able to provide her with cover.
Mrs M complained to Mapfre as she said she wasn't aware she had angina or IHD, and she 
said she'd declared all the medical conditions she knew she suffered from. Mapfre  
said information provided by her medical records showed she'd been referred for 
investigations of episodes of chest pain in 2013, and she'd been taking regular prescribed 
medication for IHD and angina since July 2015. 
Mapfre requested further information from Mrs M's GP, who wrote to them in September 
2017 saying the medication she'd been prescribed was consistent with IHD. He also said 
that as far as he was aware she should have been aware of her diagnosis, as it had been 
mentioned many times over the years. Her symptoms were thought to be consistent with 
angina; she was unable to tolerate an exercise tolerance test, and although the stress echo 
was reassuring there didn't appear to be any suggestion she didn't suffer from IHD. He also 
said she'd attended an IHD review in July 2017, which was just two months before she 
purchased her policy.
Mapfre didn't uphold Mrs M's complaint as they maintained she'd provided an incomplete 
medical history, and had a full history been provided they wouldn't have provided cover.
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service in 2018 when it was partially upheld. Our 
investigator said then that Mrs M should have declared that she had angina, but she didn't 
think the failure to do this was deliberate, as she'd declared a number of other medical 
conditions. She was satisfied that had this condition been declared Mapfre wouldn't have 
insured Mrs M, so they were entitled to cancel the policy from the beginning. And as 
no cover was in place Mapfre could decline the claim. But she said Mapfre should refund the 
premiums Mrs M had paid and pay appropriate interest. Mrs M wasn't happy with our 
investigator's opinion as she says she's never had angina.In 2019 Mrs M provided further medical evidence which she said showed she'd never 
suffered from angina or IHD. Mapfre considered this further evidence but maintained their 
decision to decline her claim.
Our investigator considered Mrs M's complaint again in light of the further medical 
evidence. She said that when Mrs M submitted her claim Mapfre requested information from 
her GP which showed she had a history of angina. Mrs M had now provided a letter from a 
Consultant Cardiologist, dated early 2019, which says there's no evidence to support a 
diagnosis of angina, and that testing had failed to show any evidence of ischaemia. 
She looked at the information Mrs M gave when taking out the policy. And said in addition to 
being asked 'Have you ever had angina and/or a heart attack', she was also asked 'Have 
you ever been told that the arteries in your heart are blocked or narrowed'. Mrs M had 
answered 'no' to both these questions.
While the letter from the cardiologist said she hadn't suffered from angina or IHD, the letter 
from Mrs M's GP dated 18 February 2019 said that in 2003 she was found to have 25% to 
50% narrowing of one of the arteries to her heart. And according to her GP records Mrs M 
had experienced chest pain due to reduced blood flow to her heart. Our investigator said 
that even if it was Mrs M's understanding that this wasn't due to angina, she still hadn't told 
Mapfre about the narrowed artery. And had this been declared Mapfre wouldn't have offered 
Mrs M cover. So she was satisfied Mrs M hadn't answered all the questions she was asked 
when taking out the policy correctly, and her view remained that Mapfre were entitled to 
cancel the policy and not pay the claim. 
Mrs M didn't accept our investigator's opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mapfre cancelled Mrs M's policy as they said she hadn't declared a number of her medical 
conditions, angina and IHD, and if she had they wouldn't have provided cover.
Mrs M has now provided evidence from a cardiologist which says she was wrongly 
diagnosed with angina, and there was no evidence that she suffered from IHD. He says that 
several investigations had shown that Mrs M's symptoms were due to valvular heart disease. 
And that her hospital admission in Spain wasn't related to coronary artery disease. 
I need to consider what impact this further medical evidence has on Mapfre's decision to 
cancel Mrs M's policy and decline her claim. And also what Mrs M should have known about 
her medical condition when she purchased her policy.
The information provided by Mrs M's GP Practice has been inconsistent, so I'm not surprised 
there's been some confusion about her understanding of her condition. In September 2017 
her GP told Mapfre that Mrs M had been treated for angina and IHD, and he felt she should 
have been aware of her diagnosis. 
But then, in June 2018, a different GP from the same Practice said 'prior to having the aortic 
valve replacement done, she presented with possible anginal symptoms but these improved 
following the surgery. She has also been seen by the cardiologists regarding palpations, but 
investigations for these were normal.'  And 'I understand that she has had a lot of possible 
anginal symptoms, but investigations for these have shown no inducible ischaemia, and I not aware that she has ever been told that she has had angina.'
In the same letter the GP goes on to say ' she did have minor disease in her left anterior 
descending coronary artery at the time of her aortic valve replacement in 2003.'
The cardiologist Mrs M saw in early 2019 is clear in his opinion, that she was wrongly 
diagnosed with angina and coronary artery disease, and that subsequent investigations had 
shown the cause of her symptoms to be valvular heart disease.
And in February 2019 one of the GP's at Mrs M's surgery wrote to her saying he was quite 
happy to be corrected, by the superior knowledge of a consultant cardiologist, regarding her 
diagnosis. He says he provided information to Mapfre based on her medical records. And he 
accepts that her symptoms were due to aortic valve disease, and not the 'relatively trivial 
LAD (Left anterior descending coronary artery) disease.
Based on what Mrs M's understood about her health, at the time she purchased her policy in 
2017, I accept it was reasonable for her to declare that she hadn't suffered from angina. But 
her medical records show that in 2003 she has significant aortic stenosis and 25% stenosis 
in her left descending artery. One of the questions Mrs M was asked when she took out her 
policy was 'Have you ever been told that the arteries to your heart are blocked or 
narrowed?'. She answered 'no' to this question. And while the cardiologist in early 2019 said 
she'd been wrongly diagnosed with coronary artery disease, I think in 2017 she had been 
told she's suffered from this, so she should have answered 'yes' to this question.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, CIDRA, says that 
when entering into a contract of insurance the consumer has a duty to take reasonable care 
not to make any misrepresentations. And that an insurer can avoid a policy if there's been a 
misrepresentation by the consumer, and they can show that without that misrepresentation 
they wouldn't have entered into the insurance contract. CIDRA presumes, unless shown to 
the contrary, that the consumer knew a matter about which the insurer asked a clear and 
specific question was relevant to the insurer.
We asked Mapfre to confirm whether they'd have offered Mrs M cover if she'd declared she 
didn't suffer from angina, but had been told she suffered from coronary artery disease. Their 
underwriters have confirmed they still wouldn't have been able to offer Mrs M cover. 
I don't think Mrs M deliberately failed to declare that she'd been told she had coronary artery 
disease, as she declared a number of other conditions. But based on her medical history at 
the time she took out the policy, this should have been declared. And I'm satisfied that if it 
had been, Mapfre wouldn't have been able to offer her cover. And I'm afraid this isn't 
changed by the different diagnosis provided by a cardiologist in 2019. 
So I don't think Mapfre did anything wrong in cancelling her policy and declining her claim, 
despite the further medical evidence she's provided, and I won't be asking them to do 
anything.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that I don't uphold Mrs M's complaint 
against Mapre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Patricia O'LearyOmbudsman