DRN-2750245
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) applied when a mortgage he 
had with National Westminster Bank Plc was repaid.
What happened
In 2016 Mr M took out a mortgage with NatWest to buy a property. Attached to the mortgage 
was an interest rate product that fixed the rate until 30 September 2018. An ERC was 
payable if Mr M paid the mortgage off before the end of the product term. The mortgage offer 
explained that if Mr M moved house the mortgage product might be able to be ported to a 
new mortgage, but it was subject to any application meeting lending criteria at the time of the 
move and the type of mortgage in place. 
In 2018 Mr M attached a new interest rate product to the mortgage and increased his 
borrowing. This fixed the interest rate until the end of December 2020. The mortgage offers 
sent to him in both July 2018 and November 2018 detailed that an ERC would be payable in 
the event of the mortgage being fully or partially repaid before the end date of the product. 
The ERC was detailed as 2% of the outstanding balance before 31 December 2019 and 1% 
thereafter until 31 December 2020.
However, there was an error in processing the new product and it wasnt attached to the 
existing mortgage when the old rate expired. NatWest acknowledged the error and applied 
the product to the mortgage. The additional interest Mr M paid because of the delay was 
refunded. This administrative error didnt alter the expiry date of the interest rate product.
In 2019 Mr M decided to move home. He applied to NatWest for a new mortgage and to port 
the interest rate product. The application was declined. Mr M was aware he would have to 
pay the ERC if he went ahead with the move and chose to do so. The mortgage was repaid 
in November 2019. He believes the ERC was higher than it should have been because, had 
the product been applied at the end of September 2018 as it should have been, he believes 
he would have been in the second year of the rate by the time he moved and would have 
only paid a 1% ERC.
Mr M complained.  NatWest responded to Mr Ms complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said that 
in July 2018 it had recommended the new interest rate product to Mr M, which would be 
applied to his existing borrowing when the then current product expired and the new 
borrowing when the advance was made. NatWest explained that its range of products have 
fixed expiry dates, which dont change, no matter when the rate is applied. The expiry date 
of the product Mr M wanted for his mortgage was 31 December 2020 and he was informed 
of this in July 2018 when he applied for it. As the mortgage was repaid before 31 December 
2019, a 2% ERC was payable.
Mr M didnt accept NatWests response and referred the complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. This was 
because he was satisfied that Mr M knew of and accepted the end dates before the product 
was applied to the mortgage. 
Mr M didnt accept the investigators conclusion. He said NatWest had told him the interest 
rate product would be backdated so he wouldnt be at a disadvantage. 
Mr Ms further comment didnt change the investigators conclusion and so the complaint has 
been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest acknowledged that an administrative error occurred in 2018 with Mr Ms mortgage, 
in that the new interest rate product wasnt attached to the existing borrowing when the old 
product ran out in September 2018. It appropriately compensated Mr M for the extra interest 
hed paid because of this error. 
Mr M appears to be under the impression that the end of the product date is dependent on 
the date it is applied to the mortgage. As NatWest explained, the product would have had 
the same end date, no matter when it was applied to the mortgage. This is evidenced by the 
fact that the first mortgage offer Mr M accepted in July 2018 detailed the end date of the 
product as December 2020. It also confirmed that the ERC of 2% would apply until the end 
of December 2019. This was repeated in the November 2018 offer.
As such, I dont consider Mr M was disadvantaged by the delay in attaching the interest rate 
product to the mortgage in 2018 as it would always have had the same end date. As the 
date for the ERC to reduce to 1% was always going to be after the date Mr M paid his 
mortgage off, I cant find that NatWest did anything wrong when it charged the ERC at 2%.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
21 October 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman