DRN-2963303
The complaint
Mr A complains about the charges BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMWFS) asked 
him to pay when he returned a car after ending a financial agreement.
What happened
Mr A entered into a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS for a new car in September 2018. 
In June 2020 Mr A voluntarily terminated the agreement and handed the car back. Mr A says 
hes unhappy with the end of contract charges that were applied after he returned the car. 
Mr A told us:
When he returned the car, he paid around £6,000 to voluntary terminate the hire 
purchase agreement;
A short time later he received a further invoice for £3,925.45 and an allegation that 
hed tampered with the mileage and degraded the cars resale value at auction;
he says the car was faulty and probably caused any issue that BMWFS has found 
with the vehicle;
it was inspected by a third party and a Vehicle Condition Report was prepared;
BMWFS rejected Mr As complaint. It said it had diagnostic evidence indicating a mileage 
discrepancy; lengthy periods of time when the odometer mileage deviates sharply from the 
mileage confirmed by the cars GPS data. It says the odometer had been tampered with and 
the car was displaying a false, reduced mileage.
BMWFS went on to explain that Mr A had breached the conditions of his agreement when he 
admitted hed used the car for travel agency work. And it said that although the GPS, 
measuring distance between GPS positions as the crow flies, had shown the car being 
driven consistently over the period of the finance agreement, the odometer had been 
manipulated to show significant periods of almost non-existent use; for example, October 
2018 to May 2019.
BMWFS said that before it could sell the car, it had to replace the affected parts and make 
repairs totalling £325.45. And the value of the car was devalued by £3,600 when it sold it at 
auction because of its inaccurate mileage  it couldnt sell it with verified mileage.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that when he signed the agreement, Mr A agreed that if he did not return the 
vehicle in good repair and condition, (you will pay) the sum required to compensate (BMW) 
for this. And he was satisfied that the charge made by BMWFS because it had to repair the 
vehicle and then couldnt sell it with verified mileage was fair and reasonable.
Mr A disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Everyone accepts that the mileage on the odometer doesnt reflect the actual mileage 
driven. Mr A says there was a fault with it and BMWFS say they have evidence that the 
mileage has been artificially lowered.
I dont need to make a decision about what caused the odometer mileage to differ so 
significantly from the actual mileage driven. This is because under the terms and conditions 
of the hire purchase agreement, it was Mr As responsibility to keep the vehicle in good 
repair and condition. It also set out that Mr A would be responsible for any damage or 
deterioration of the vehicle which is in excess of fair wear and tear.
And although it is expected that when a car is handed back it will show some signs of use, 
this was a brand-new car when Mr A acquired it. And I havent seen any evidence from Mr A 
that there was a fault with the odometer when the car was supplied, or that he told BMWFS 
about any problems he was experiencing with it.
Mr A had a duty to keep the car in good condition and because he didnt, BMWFS is allowed 
to recover the costs and losses it experiences because of this.
The hire purchase agreement says,  if the Vehicle  is not returned  in good  repair  and 
condition  (allowing  for fair wear  and tear),  we will charge  you a set cost for each  item of 
damage  we would  have  to repair  to return  the Vehicle  to the state  we expected  it to. 
And it goes  on to say that you  can terminate  this agreement  at any time before  your 
final repayment  falls due...You  will have  to return  the Vehicle  and payif  you do not 
return  the Vehicle  in good  repair  and condition,  the sum required  to compensate  us for 
this.
And in the additional  notes  accompanying  the agreement,  it says  a charge  will be made  
for damage  outside  fair wear  and tear as this results  in additional  depreciation  of the 
vehicle.
BMWFS  says  it cost £325.45  to obtain  an independent  report  and then repair  the vehicle  
and it lost a further  £3,600  when  it sold the car because  it couldnt  verify  the actual  
mileage  driven.  It says  £3,600  was the difference  between  the sales  price  the car 
wouldve  achieved  if the mileage  had been  verifiable   according  to one of the online  car 
valuation  tools   and what  BMWFS  was actually  able to sell the car for. And taking  
everything  into consideration,  I dont  think  this is unreasonable   being  unable  to verify  a 
cars  mileage  would  discourage  potential  purchasers  causing  a resultant  reduction  in the 
cars  sales  value.
Mr A says hes been caused unnecessary upset and worry by BMWFS sending him debt 
recovery letters for the unpaid invoice while he was still disputing the charges. 
I cant say that BMWFS has acted unfairly in seeking payment of the outstanding balance 
even when a dispute is ongoing; this is because there is an outstanding balance and its final 
response letter is clear as to the amount that remains unpaid.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman