DRN-2632178
The complaint
Mrs W and Mr W complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1998 when they applied for a 
joint mortgage.
What happened
Mrs W and Mr W took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. The policy provided 
cover if Mr W couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job. As the policy 
only covered Mr W, I will sometimes only refer to him in this decision, but I will refer to 
Mrs W and Mr W where appropriate.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs W and Mr W didnt agree with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws and Mr Ws complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointment to them, so Ill explain why.
Mrs W and Mr W specifically complained that they didnt consent to PPI being added to 
their mortgage account, so they say it was added without their knowledge. However, I 
have seen the PPI application and the direct debit mandate and can see Mrs W and Mr 
W signed them for the PPI. I can reasonably assume they could have left the forms 
blank. So as they had that choice, I think it was clear the policy was optional. And signing 
the forms was their consent to add it to their account. 
Lloyds recommended the policy to them and Ill also continue on the basis that it was an 
advised sale. For an advised sale, Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs 
Ws and Mr Ws needs. Having looked at their circumstances at the time of the sale, I think 
this policy was suitable for them in 1998 because Mr W was eligible to buy it, he wasnt 
affected by the main things not covered by the policy (the exclusions) and it was affordable 
for them.
I accept Mr W probably had employee benefits if he was off work through accident or 
sickness - similar to the kind the PPI provided. But I think the PPI cover could have paid 
out in addition to his sick pay. So I think they could have found the PPI useful if Mr W 
couldnt work or lost his job. I dont think his employee benefits, or any savings made the 
policy less suitable for them.
For advised sales, Lloyds also had to give Mrs W and Mr W enough information which was 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
I dont know how Lloyds pointed out all the exclusions and limitations. But even if Lloyds 
had made all the information clearer, I think its likely Mrs W and Mr W would have still 
bought the PPI because Mr W wasnt affected by the main ones. 
I also looked at the cost and benefits of the policy. Even if they were not made clear, I 
havent seen anything which makes me think the policy wasnt affordable for Mrs W and 
Mr W. Having decided they chose to have PPI and as I think it provided a useful benefit for 
them  I still think they would have bought it even if the cost and benefits were made 
clearer. So I dont uphold this mis-sale complaint.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the 
PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Lloyds Bank has given me information that shows Mrs Ws and Mr Ws mortgage was taken 
out in 1998 and ended in 2001. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply 
here.
So Lloyds Bank doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mrs W and Mr W paid for the 
PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman