DRN-3794423
The complaint
Miss J complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), irresponsibly granted her an Aqua credit 
card account she says she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss J entered into an agreement with NewDay to have access to credit with an Aqua 
account that was first opened for her in March 2014, with an opening credit limit of £250. 
NewDay first increased Miss Js credit limit in August 2016 to £500 and then again in 
February 2017 to £1,000. Miss J unfortunately got into difficulty with the account. The 
outstanding debt was passed to a third party in October 2017, with the account going into 
default in February 2018. 
NewDay consented to this service looking into Miss Js complaint about the first and second 
credit limit increases, but said the part of the complaint about the account opening had been 
made too late. I have previously issued a jurisdiction decision where I said the complaint  
about the account opening had been made too late. 
NewDay offered to refund her all interest and charges that were added to her account, plus 
interest, from the February 2017 credit limit increase. Our adjudicator said this offer was fair 
but Miss J isnt happy with it. She says she would like to have her debt removed and credit 
file amended to reflect this. 
The complaint has therefore come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDay will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Ive decided that NewDays offer is fair but I would like to explain how Ive made my finding. 
Looking at the first credit limit increase in August 2016, I agree with our adjudicator that it 
would have been proportionate for NewDay to have taken steps to find out more about any 
changes to income and expenditure at this point. But we dont have any details from Miss J 
about her financial circumstances then. So based on the evidence and information available,  
we cant know whether the account had become unaffordable at this point.  
Looking next at the second credit limit increase in February 2017, Miss J had used almost all 
her available credit. And whilst shed made payments towards the card that were above the 
minimum required, I can see shed made a number of late payments and had therefore been 
charged three late payment fees. She also had a note about financial difficulty with credit 
added to her credit file in December 2016. After that, her credit file shows that Miss Js 
overall financial position continued to worsen. 
I therefore agree that by then NewDay ought to have been aware that Miss J may not have 
been in a position to manage her account without getting into financial difficulty and so the 
credit limit increase wasnt affordable. 
It follows that I dont think NewDay should have increased Miss Js credit limit beyond the 
first increase up to £500. 
Having looked at the terms of NewDays offer to refund the interest and charges arising 
following the credit limit increase to £1,000 in February 2017, Im satisfied that this is 
consistent with how wed expect NewDay to compensate Miss J in cases like this. 
I would however expect NewDay to continue to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking 
to assist Miss J in her efforts to find a fair and manageable way to pay back any balance that 
is still owing on her account.
Putting things right  what NewDay needs to do
As NewDay has agreed it shouldnt have increased Miss Js credit limit to £1,000 on 
17 February 2017, I dont think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any 
balances which exceeded that limit. I see that NewDay has already provided a breakdown of 
these sums. 
To be clear about what NewDay needs to do, it needs to :
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £500, being the previous credit limit. 
If after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £1,000 New Day should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss J for the remaining amount. Once 
Miss J has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
17 February 2017 in relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
OR
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss J along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the 
date of settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded 
after 17 February 2017 regarding this account from Miss Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she intends to apply the 
refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
My final decision
Im upholding Miss Js complaint in relation to the second credit limit increase and require 
NewDay Ltd to put things right in the way Ive set out above if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman