DRN-1819635
 
The complaint
Mr J and Ms C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) alongside a mortgage.
What happened
Mr J and Ms C applied for a joint mortgage and alongside that PPI. Bank of Scotland sold 
them a PPI policy in 1995, covering Mr J only for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr J and      
  Ms C didnt agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
They said, in summary:
they thought PPI came with the mortgage and werent aware it was optional;
it wouldve been better for them if the policy had been in Ms Cs name, rather than  
 Mr Js. But Bank of Scotland told them that the highest earner had to be covered, so 
thats why they took the policy in his name only;
Bank of Scotland shouldve told them they could buy the PPI elsewhere, that they 
had other options, like they had with mortgage lenders;
the adviser didnt tailor the benefits to meet their needs; and
the timing of the sale of PPI was dubious as by that time they were quite far down the 
line, with their mortgage agreed.
 
What Ive decided- and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr J and Ms Cs case. Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive first considered whether Bank of Scotland gave Mr J and Ms C a choice to buy PPI.    
 Mr J and Ms C have told us that when they applied for the mortgage they were buying their 
first property. 
Mr J and Ms C said they werent made aware that PPI was optional. However, Ive looked at 
their mortgage application and the other paperwork from the time of sale. Ive seen their 
mortgage offer dated July 1994, theres no mention on there of them needing to take PPI. 
Looking at all the paperwork available, it is clear from that, that PPI is an optional extra. 
Indeed, I think what Mr J and Ms C have said supports this, because they said they were quite far down the line, with their mortgage agreed, by the time they were sold PPI. So, I 
think it wouldve been clear that taking PPI was not a condition of getting the mortgage. 
Overall, I think it likely that Mr J and Ms C were told they didnt have to have PPI, but 
decided to take it out. I can understand why they may not remember it that way now after so 
much time.
Bank of Scotland accepts it recommended the policy to Mr J and Ms C. So that means it had 
the added responsibility of advising them on whether the policy was right for them. It also 
had to give them enough clear and fair information about the PPI so that they could make a 
decision for themselves about whether it was right for them and they wanted to buy it.
Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think the PPI was suitable for Mr J and  
 Ms C. In reaching this decision, Ive taken into account Ms Cs circumstances too, as this 
was a joint mortgage. Ill explain why I think the policy was suitable. 
Mr J was eligible to take out the PPI, given his circumstances. Probably Ms C 
wouldve been eligible too. However, when considering suitability, my role  is not to 
consider whether the policy wouldve been suitable for Ms C, or to assess whether it 
couldve been set up in a different way. My role,  is  to decide if the policy was 
suitable for Mr J to cover their mortgage repayments.
Mr J said he wouldve been eligible to get six months worth of full pay and six 
months worth of pay at half pay, if he was off work sick. He said he wouldve also 
been eligible to get redundancy pay. But this policy would pay benefits in addition to 
any sick or redundancy pay Mr J received from work and for up to 12 months per 
successful claim. The PPI protected a mortgage  their home was at risk if they 
couldnt make the repayments  so I think the cover could have been useful if hed 
needed to claim. Having PPI wouldve allowed them to use Mr Js work benefits and 
Ms Cs income to meet their other household expenses if Mr J wasnt working.
They said they had around £7,000 in savings at the time of sale. Given that they had 
not decided to reduce their mortgage borrowing by using these savings, I think it 
likely that it was important to them to hold on to them. Also, I cant see that these 
other means made the policy unsuitable.
Mr J doesnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions or limitations of 
the policy either  so I cant see that having more information about what the policy 
didnt cover wouldve put them off taking out the insurance.
The policy was paid by a monthly premium. It cost £14.97 per month for £250 per 
month of cover. It couldve been cancelled at any time if Mr J and Ms C no longer 
decided they wanted it.
 
So, I dont think the policy set up as it was in Mr Js name only, was unsuitable for their 
circumstances. But, I have gone on to consider whether Bank of Scotland gave them clear 
and fair information about the PPI so that they could make an informed choice.
It's possible that Bank of Scotland could've given them clearer information about the costs 
and the benefits of the policy. So, I've looked to see whether Mr J and Ms C have lost out 
because of any shortcomings here.
I dont think that Bank of Scotland was under any obligation to tell them there were other PPI 
providers they could buy insurance through. This was an optional product and as Ive said, I 
think Bank of Scotland made that clear. So, in the same way that Mr J and Ms C went about 
identifying the best mortgage lender for them, they couldve researched the market about 
PPI.Ive thought carefully about what Mr J and Ms C have said about the policy covering Mr J 
only. They said that it wouldve been far better for Ms C to be covered as she was only 
eligible to get sick pay for 20 days if out of work. I cant know what was discussed at the 
time, but, given how long ago this sale was, I need to be conscious that memories can and 
do fade over time. Also, I cant expect either Bank of Scotland, or Mr J and Ms C, to have all 
the paperwork from the time of sale. For example, I havent seen any paperwork recording 
the discussion between the adviser and Mr J and Ms C about the benefit split. So, I dont 
think I have enough to fairly conclude that Bank of Scotland actively mis-informed Mr J and 
Ms C about the cover and that they wouldve done something different and taken the policy 
out in a different way if given clearer information. Nor have I seen anything to show that Mr J 
and Ms C have lost out because of how the cover was split.
Overall, taking everything into account, I dont think Mr J and Ms C wouldve been put off 
deciding to buy the PPI if Bank of Scotland had given them clearer information. I say this 
because the policy appeared suitable for their needs, it was affordable, they seemed to want 
the cover, and it was protecting probably their largest asset,  their first home together. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold Mr J and Ms C this policy. 
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J 
and Ms C. But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J and        
Ms C because:
     When the policy was sold, Bank of Scotland expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr J and Ms C 
about that. Because Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr J and Ms C, that was unfair.
     To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr J and Ms C.
But Bank of Scotland Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr J and Ms C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman