DRN-3199107
The complaint
Mr T complains about Nationwide Building Society and their involvement in a fraudulent call 
he received. Mr T is also unhappy with how long it took for him to receive a replacement 
card.
What happened
Mr T held a current account with Nationwide. On 4 November 2020, Mr T says he received 
two calls from an agent stating they were from Nationwide. On one of these calls, Mr T says 
the number dialling him showed as a number belonging to Nationwide. Mr T says the agent 
asked for Mr T to use his long card number in his personal card reader. And when Mr T 
challenged the agent on why this was necessary, the agent became abusive and made 
threats to him and his family.
So, Mr T contacted Nationwide to discuss this. Nationwides agent explained there were no 
records of any calls being made to Mr T and that the calls hed received were fraudulent. 
They advised Mr T to contact the police due to the nature of these calls. Mr T spoke to 
Nationwide again on 5 and 6 November, questioning how the agent on the fraudulent calls 
held so much personal information of his and suggested a member of staff and Nationwide 
may have made these calls. Nationwide disputed this. Mr T remained unhappy, so he made 
a complaint.
Mr T thought Nationwide were to blame for the fraudulent calls as the agent on the phone 
had access to information Mr T thought only Nationwide wouldve held. So, he wanted to be 
compensated for the upset these calls had caused him.
Nationwide responded and didnt agree. They explained the number Mr T said he was called 
from was an inbound line only. And that when customers called this line, they were referred 
to the new number Nationwide used as theyd stopped using 0800 numbers altogether. And 
they explained theyd reviewed their internal systems and could find no record of any calls or 
contact made to Mr T on 4 November. So, they were satisfied the calls were fraudulent. 
They thought their agents had handled Mr Ts calls fairly when advising him to contact the 
policy and explained they were willing to liaise with the police on any investigation.
But Nationwide did recognise theyd failed to send out a new debit card to Mr T as agreed on 
7 November and paid Mr T £25 to recognise the upset this caused. Mr T didnt think the £25 
was enough to recognise the upset hed been caused and so, he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied that the calls 
made to Mr T were fraudulent and not made by Nationwide. So, he didnt think it as fair to 
hold Nationwide responsible for these calls or the upset they caused Mr T. And he thought 
the £25 Nationwide offered Mr T to recognise the delay in sending a replacement card was 
fair, considering Mr T had other cards available to him at the time. So, he didnt think 
Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Mr T didnt agree. He didnt think the £25 Nationwide paid was enough to recognise the 
seriousness of the situation. He thought a replacement card shouldve been sent as a priority 
due to the upset hed been caused by the calls and the threatening nature of these. 
Especially as the calls hed received had come from a number associated to Nationwide. As 
Mr T didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr T. I recognise the worry Mr 
T wouldve been caused when he realised hed been called fraudulently and that the people 
making this call had access to personal information. And I appreciate this wouldve been 
made worse by the threatening nature of the calls when Mr T challenged the agent making 
them. I can also understand why Mr T would question the involvement of Nationwide as he 
said one of the calls appeared to be from a number associated with Nationwide. Due to the 
above, I understand why Mr T cancelled his card at the time and requested a new one to be 
sent. And I do understand the frustration hed have felt when this card was delayed.
But for me to say Nationwide should offer something more than the £25 theyve already paid 
Mr T, Id need to be satisfied this offer fails to adequately recognise any errors Nationwide 
made and the impact of these. So, Id need to be satisfied Nationwide were responsible for 
the fraudulent calls Mr T received. Or, that Mr T was impacted by the delay of his card being 
received to the extent that the £25 isnt a fair offer of compensation. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Ive first thought about the calls Mr T received and whether Nationwide should be held 
responsible for these. Mr T thinks the agent he spoke to on the calls had access to 
information only Nationwide wouldve had. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest Nationwide 
has suffered a data breach, or that any data breach resulted from an error they made. So, 
without this, I dont think I can fairly say Nationwide are responsible for the information the 
fraudulent callers had to hand.
I recognise Mr T says one of the calls showed as an 0800 number associated with 
Nationwide and I can appreciate the confusion this wouldve caused. But Nationwide have 
confirmed they no longer use this number and this came into effect in May 2020, before Mr T 
received the call. And even so, Nationwide say this number was never used for outbound 
calls. 
I called the number Mr T provided and, as Nationwide suggested, it provided an automated 
message directing customers to the correct number Nationwide use. And Nationwide have 
provided me with screenshots of their system which show no calls were made to Mr T on 4 
November. So, on the balance of probability, I think its most likely Nationwide didnt make 
these calls and they were made fraudulently.
The Office of Communications, the regulator of telecommunications, have articles available 
on their website which warn consumers of something called number spoofing where 
fraudulent callers mask the number they are calling from, using another number to try and 
legitimise the calls theyre making. This satisfies me that the fraudulent calls Mr T received couldve been made from other numbers, even though they showed as a Nationwide 
number. And because of the above, I dont think its fair to hold Nationwide responsible for 
these calls or the threats that were made on them.
So, Ive then thought about the offer Nationwide have made to recognise the delay in 
sending Mr T a replacement card. Its not in dispute there was a delay and Nationwide have 
accepted this delay was caused by their error, with the agent not requesting a replacement 
card when they should have. So, I dont intend to discuss the error itself any further.
What is in dispute is the offer Nationwide have made. Mr T doesnt think this offer is enough 
to recognise the upset hes been caused.
But although I recognise Mr T was threatened on the calls and the worry this wouldve 
created, as Ive already explained I dont think Nationwide were responsible for this. So, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to say the upset these threats caused should be 
considered when deciding what a fair offer should be.
Instead, I think the compensation should consider the impact Mr T was caused by not having 
a valid debit card to use for an extended period of time. And Im aware Mr T had other cards 
available during the time he was without one, so he had access to money and as far as Im 
aware, hasnt suffered any form of financial loss because of this. But I think Mr T could still 
expect to receive the debit card within a reasonable amount of time and its already accepted 
he didnt. I think this wouldve caused some inconvenience as Id expect Mr T to have been 
frustrated by the length of time it took. Because of this, I think the £25 Nationwide have 
offered is a fair one and in line with the award I wouldve directed had it not already been 
made. So, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt address 
the upset and worry he was caused by the threats made to him on the phone during the 
fraudulent calls. But I can only ask Nationwide to compensate Mr T for the events and 
actions they were responsible for. Im aware Mr T has spoken to the police about this and 
Nationwide have agreed to work this them in any investigation that may take place. I think 
this is a reasonable response from Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman