DRN-2511469
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed his account and recorded a Credit 
Industry Fraud Awareness System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He feels the marker 
should be removed.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr R received a payment of £2,400 into his savings account. On the same 
day, the funds from the payment and most of the balance of Mr Rs savings account were 
transferred to his current account. These funds were then withdrawn in two cash withdrawals 
of £1,950 and £300, and a card payment for £390 the following day.
Shortly afterwards, Barclays was contacted by another bank saying the original payment of 
£2,400 was fraudulent funds. It investigated and ultimately decided to close Mr Rs accounts 
and record a CIFAS marker against his name.
Mr R said hed lost his card but wasnt involved in any type of crime and had been the victim 
of fraud. He wasnt happy with Barclays response and so brought his complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked at the complaint and thought Barclays had enough 
evidence to record the CIFAS marker. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Barclays had enough evidence to record the CIFAS marker against 
Mr R. Ill explain why below.
The marker Barclays has filed with CIFAS is intended to record that theres been a
misuse of facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to 
record a marker like this, Barclays isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr R 
is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Mr Rs account or fraudulent funds have entered
Mr Rs account, and were either moved on or retained. And secondly, the bank will need to
have strong evidence to show that Mr R was deliberately dishonest in receiving the
fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment.
This can include allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker should not be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show deliberate complicity.
Barclays has sent us details of the information it received from the other bank about the 
fraud and where the funds for the payment of £2,400 had come from. And from this, Im 
satisfied the payment into Mr Rs savings account was fraudulent funds.
The funds were then transferred to Mr Rs current account and moved on within 24 hours. 
Barclays has also sent us evidence that the funds were transferred from Mr Rs savings 
account to his current account using his online banking. And that the cash withdrawals and 
card payment were done using Mr Rs card, with no incorrect PIN attempts before either the 
withdrawals or the payment.
Mr R said he lost his card. But I cant see how someone who found or stole his card would 
know his PIN. And given the number of possible combinations, its extremely unlikely 
someone could guess the PIN correctly first time. So I think its likely whoever made the 
cash withdrawals and card payment knew Mr Rs PIN.
And Mr R hasnt given any explanation for how someone else would know his online banking 
log-in details, in order to be able to transfer the funds from his savings account to his current 
account.
I cant see why a fraudster would send fraudulent funds to Mr Rs savings account without 
his knowledge. And I cant see how an unconnected third party would know Mr Rs online 
banking details, have his card and know his PIN.
So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its likely Mr R was complicit in receiving the 
fraudulent funds. And so I think Barclays has met the requirements to record the CIFAS 
marker and I wont be asking it to remove it.
Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs account and Im satisfied they allow 
Barclays to close his accounts immediately in these circumstances. So I think Barclays did 
act reasonably in closing Mr Rs accounts.
Mr R also complained that the full balance of his accounts from before the fraudulent 
payment werent refunded to him when Barclays closed the accounts. But Barclays treats 
the first money paid into an account as the first money then paid out of an account. So any 
money that was in Mr Rs accounts before the original fraudulent payment, was then 
removed from his accounts by the transfers and cash withdrawals. And I think this is 
reasonable. So I dont think Barclays needs to refund anything further to Mr R.
Mr R also mentioned an account opened in his name with Barclays, that he says he didnt 
open. But this account never had any funds paid into or out of it. So Mr R hasnt suffered a 
loss as a result of it. And I dont think this account means Mr R wasnt complicit in receiving 
the fraudulent funds. So it doesnt change my decision on his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman