DRN-1696593
The complaint
The complaint Mr S complains Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 are holding him 
responsible for repaying a loan didnt agree to take out. He wants them to stop asking him to 
repay the loan.
What happened
Mr S has let 118 118 and our service know he has a medical condition which impacts on 
how he thinks, communicates and understands things. 
On 6 June 2019 a loan of £3000 was taken out in Mr Ss name with 118 118. Other loans 
were also taken out in his name with other lenders for different amounts. Mr S says he didnt 
apply for the loan, and he wasnt aware of it until his mother checked his credit report and 
saw multiple credit searches recorded. 
Mr S contacted 118 118 and asked it to investigate the matter as fraud. He said he reported 
what happened to the police. During the course of 118 118s fraud investigation, Mr S 
agreed to take responsibility for the loan. He said the police werent going to pursue an 
investigation, which influenced his decision. In its final response letter, 118 118 offered to 
waive the interest on the loan on this basis. 
Mr S contacted our service and asked us to investigate his complaint. He didnt think he 
should have to pay for the loan. An investigator considered his complaint and disagreed. In 
summary they found: 
- Mr Ss version of what had happened wasnt plausible. He had told other loan providers a 
very different story about the other loans taken out in his name. He said his friend told him 
he could take out a loan for him, and the money would be split between both of them, and he 
didnt need to pay his friend back. 
- Mr S told another lender he didnt know how his friend got his bank account details. But he 
told our service that his friend knew his account details because hed given them to his friend 
in the past. 
- Mr Ss bank confirmed it questioned Mr S about the loans when he went into branch to 
withdraw the money. Mr S had answered he hadnt been able to get a loan with the bank. 
- It was more likely than not that Mr S agreed to the 118 118 loan, whether he or his friend 
applied for the loan. 
Mr S disagreed with the outcome. He says he was already in debt when the loans were 
taken out. 118 118 needed to perform more checks, such as looking at his bank statements 
and pay slips. He repeated he didnt know the loans would be taken out in his name; and not 
enough consideration had been given to how his medical condition affects him. 
Mr S asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Did Mr S know the loans would be taken out? 
Mr S hasnt been consistent in what hes said happened. He told our service and 118 118 he 
didnt know loans would be taken out in his name. He said his friend told him they 
accidentally sent funds to his account, which Mr S then withdrew. He said his friend had his 
account details from helping him arrange car insurance in the past. 
But Mr S told other lenders something very different. He said his friend told him he could 
apply for loans in Mr Ss name, and Mr S wouldnt have to worry about repayments, but he 
would receive commission. Mr S wrote a letter to one lender which said something similar. 
Mr S says his friend told him what to say when he wrote the letter, so it wasnt correct. 
Im satisfied Mr S knew his friend would apply for loans in his name  the evidence strongly 
supports my conclusions. His bank has provided evidence to show it asked him about the 
funds coming from lenders before he withdrew the money, which he didnt dispute at the 
time. Instead he gave answers about what the loans were for, and that he took them out 
because he couldnt take a loan out with the bank. I find this very telling. 
Should Mr S be liable for the loans because of his circumstances? 
118 118 must consider the individual circumstances of its customers when making decisions 
that affect them, particularly when considering the needs of those who are vulnerable. There 
is a wealth of rules and guidelines that establish this. 
Mr S suffers from a medical condition. And from what I understand, one of the symptoms 
someone might have with this condition is difficulty understanding information. But this varies 
greatly between individuals. Mr S says he sometimes has difficulty explaining his needs and 
sometimes has trouble remembering specific things. 
Mr S has provided information detailing his condition. The information reveals his condition 
affects his ability to manage his finances. But Im not satisfied it shows he doesnt 
understand how a loan works, or that he didnt realise 118 118 would think he was meant to 
repay the loan. 
One of the documents Mr S sent is a medical referral completed by his doctor. One of the 
questions on the form was: 
Does the Person have any difficulties or idiosyncrasies in: Imagination/make believe, 
Thinking abstractly, Generalising concepts, Forward planning, Time management and 
organisation. 
This has been answered as no, which indicates Mr S is capable of understanding the 
consequences of taking out a loan and what interest is. Mr Ss credit file also shows he has 
taken loans out in the past. So, I dont think the concept of a loan and how it works is new to 
him. 
But I agree Mr S may not have understood the seriousness of the situation he was putting 
himself in, like someone without his condition would. He may have trusted his friend to repay 
the loans and he didnt think enough about what would happen if his friend didnt keep their promise. This must have been very upsetting for Mr S. I see he is getting help to address 
how what happened made him feel, which is good to hear. 
Affordability 
Mr S says he wouldnt have passed affordability criteria had 118 118 ran further checks. But 
a lender is under a duty to perform proportionate checks. And Im not persuaded 118 118 
needed to verify the financial information they had by checking Mr Ss payslips or bank 
statements. 
Im satisfied there wasnt anything on the application form which ought to have concerned 
118 118, whether or not the information wasnt correct. And the checks 118 118 ran on      
Mr Ss financial standing didnt indicate problems with his other financial commitments or 
that loan was unaffordable. At the time of the check, the other loans taken out in Mr Ss 
name wouldnt have been seen by 118 118. So, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 118 118 
to have taken them into account. 
The evidence points to Mr S agreeing to his friend pretending to be him to take out the loan. 
So, Im not persuaded Mr S wouldnt have agreed to continue with the loan even if 118 118 
had managed to contact him. 
Ive also considered Mr S may have benefitted from some of the money he took out, 
although he says he gave it all to his friend. I say this because he told another lender that he 
would receive some commission from the loan, so its possible he kept some of the cash he 
withdrew. Its hard to conclude he didnt retain some money, given the inconsistencies in 
what hes said. 
On balance, Im persuaded its reasonable for 118 118 to hold Mr S liable for the loan. This 
doesnt, however, mean that 118 118 shouldnt see what they can do to help him more easily 
repay the loan repayment if its unaffordable. 118 118 has an obligation to see how they can 
help customers who are struggling with repayments, and to ensure a fair outcome for a 
vulnerable customer, which Mr S is because of his medical condition. 
Ive reviewed 118 118s records and it agreed a repayment plan with Mr S which was 
affordable.118 118 also decided to remove the interest on the loan to help him further. So, 
Im satisfied 118 118 has acted responsibly, and I wont be asking it to do anything more. I 
also see no default has been reported, which I know Mr S is very concerned about.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman