DRN-3971173
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd voided her pet insurance policies 
and wouldnt pay her claims. My references to Building Block include its agents.
What happened
Mrs W took out a pet insurance policy online for her dog, insured by Building Block. The 
policy started on 8 February 2021 and was renewed on 8 February 2022. The policy terms 
gave cover for a condition for 12 months from the date the condition started.
Mrs W made two claims, the first for her dogs treatment for dermatitis in January 2022 and 
the second for her dogs treatment for swollen abdomen and lethargy from 11 to 23 February 
2022.
Building Block said when Mrs W bought the policy she ticked a box to confirm shed agreed 
to some listed assumptions which included Your pet must not be overweight based on its 
breed type and age but the vet evidence showed Mrs W knew her dog was overweight. So 
Building Block considered Mrs W had made a careless qualifying misrepresentation under 
the relevant legislation, which it said entitled it to void both policies as it wouldnt have 
offered Mrs W the policies if it had known her dog was overweight.
Building Block voided the policies for both 2021/2022 and 2022/2023 so it wouldnt pay 
either claim and it refunded the premiums Mrs W had paid. It apologised to Mrs W for the 
confusion caused by the claim handler acknowledging receipt of the second claim when it 
had already told Mrs W the first claim was declined and the policies had been voided.
Mrs W complained to us. In summary she said:
She hadnt been asked for her dogs weight when she took out the policy.
The treatment claimed for didnt relate to her dogs weight.
Building Blocks poor service caused a lot of confusion with it not being clear about 
what claims it might be assessing when it had told her the policy was void.
She wants Building Block to pay both claims.
She wants Building Block to reinstate the policy starting February 2022 for her to 
cancel so she doesnt have a record of an insurer voiding her policy which would 
make it difficult for her to find alternative insurance. During our investigation Mrs W 
updated us to say shed been able to get alternative insurance for her dog.
Our investigator said he wasnt persuaded Mrs W had made a qualifying misrepresentation 
so Building Block couldnt reasonably void the policies and it should reassess the claims.
Building Block disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision explaining why I was intending to uphold the complaint but with 
a different outcome than our investigator recommended. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Building Block says Mrs W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when during the policy sale process she ticked the box to confirm shed read the 
assumptions and also when the policy automatically renewed.
Ive looked at the evidence Building Block provided about the policy sales process and policy 
documentation Mrs W was sent then and at policy renewal. Ive also looked at Mrs Ws dogs 
vet records and I think she was told her dog was overweight before she bought the policy. 
But I dont think Building Block has shown Mrs W failed to take reasonable care. Ill explain 
why.
Building Block didnt ask Mrs W a question about her dogs weight during the policy sale or 
at any other time. But as Building Block points out, section 2 (3) of CIDRA says:
failure by the consumer to comply with the insurers request to confirm or amend 
particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for the purposes 
of this Act...
I accept there may be some circumstances when a consumer incorrectly confirming a clear 
assumption may be making a misrepresentation. But I dont think thats so in this case.
When buying the policy Mrs W was asked to confirm shed read the assumptions which she 
had to access by clicking on a link. She was shown a long list of 11 assumptions and the 
assumption about her dogs weight was 9th in the list. I think the weight assumption is an 
unusual criteria for policy eligibility and I think it would have been reasonable for the weight 
criteria to have been highlighted more clearly than it was if Building Block wanted to rely on 
that unusual criteria for policy eligibility.
Also, when Mrs W bought the policy she was sent an email with attachments. One of the 
attachments was the Statement of Fact (SoF) which included assumptions for her to check.
Under the heading of Assumptions the SoF said:
Please read the assumptions we have made to give you a quote and make sure you 
have understood these along with the policy wording for your policy.
If any of these assumptions are not correct it could result in a claim not being paid or 
your policy being voided or additional terms.
Theres then a list of assumptions but the weight assumption Building Block relied on to void 
the policy isnt listed. Building Block accepts that the SoF sent to Mrs W when she renewed the policy also didnt include the weight assumption. So the policy sale SoF and renewal 
SoFs gave no prompt for Mrs W to check if she did agree the weight assumption.
I acknowledge the policy renewal covering email sent on 11 January 2022 to Mrs W does list 
the weight assumption. But I dont think thats sufficient for me to say Mrs W failed to take 
reasonable care to notify Building Block that the assumption wasnt correct as the 
assumption is missing from both SoFs she was asked to check.
Building Block also accepts that when Mrs W bought the policy she was sent a policy 
schedule which stated:
Assumptions
I have read and agree with the policy assumptions. No.
Building Block says the answer should have been populated with 'Yes', as it wouldnt have 
been possible for the policy sellers system to generate a policy schedule without Mrs W 
having selected 'I confirm' shed agreed the assumptions in the quotation webpage. But 
Building Block cant show that Mrs W did agree the assumptions as part of the sale process 
and her policy schedule clearly told her that she hadnt agreed the policy assumptions. In 
addition the schedule for the policy which renewed on 8 February 2022 also stated I have 
read and agree with the policy assumptions. No, so that message was reinforced to Mrs W.
In all the circumstances I dont think Building Block has shown that Mrs W failed to take 
reasonable care if she confirmed she agreed the weight assumption during the online policy 
sale process. As I dont think she made a misrepresentation Building Block couldnt rely on 
CIDRA to void the policies and I think it acted unfairly in doing so.
To put things right Building Block needs to put Mrs W back in the position she would have 
been in if it hadnt voided the policies. That means I think Building Block should:
Reinstate both the 2021/22 and 2022/23 policies.
Amend its records and any central databases to make sure any record of the 
avoidance is removed.
Pay both claims less the excesses once Mrs W has repaid the premiums it refunded 
to her.
In cases where I say a policy must be reinstated I would generally say the insurer then has 
to assess a claim in line with the remaining policy terms. But Building Block has already told 
us that if we found that Mrs W hadnt made a misrepresentation it would pay the claims and 
it set out options for its settlement calculations. Mrs Ws calculation of the amount she thinks 
shes owed for the claims differs from the amount in any of Building Blocks calculations. So 
I think its fair to both parties for me set out what I think is a fair settlement of those claims.
On the current evidence I have I think Building Block should pay:
For the treatment for dermatitis which was in the 2021/2022 policy year. The vet fees 
claimable were £178.99, less £50 excess so the claim payment is £128.99. (I note 
Mrs W has given a higher claim figure for her first claim in correspondence but the 
claim form and vet invoice show the vet fees claimable are £178.99).
For the treatment for swollen/lethargy which was in the 2022/2023 policy year. The 
vet fees claimable were £570.49, less £50 excess so the claim payment is £520.49.Total claim payment for the two claims is £128.99 + £520.49 = £649.48
But Mrs W will need to return the 2021/2022 policy premium she was refunded, which was 
£224.56, and the 2022/2023 policy premium which she paid until that policy was voided, 
which I understand was £57.54. So Mrs W needs to repay to Building Block a total of 
£282.10.
I dont agree with Building Blocks suggestions that Mrs W needs to pay the whole 
12 months premium for the 2022/2023 policy. Due to Building Block unfairly voiding the 
policy shes had to pay for alternative insurance for her dog. It wouldnt be fair for me to say 
she has to pay two lots of insurance for the same period and as she has alternative 
insurance Building Block had no risk to insure after it voided the policy unless Mrs W has 
further claims she would have made against Building Blocks policy before she took out the 
alternative policy.
In Mrs Ws response to my provisional decision Id like her to tell me whether she did pay for 
vet treatment or other after the Building Block policy was voided and before she took 
alternative insurance that she wants to claim on the reinstated Building Block policy.
If Mrs W has other claims she wants to make against the reinstated 2022/2023 policy I would 
reconsider whats a fair remedy and its likely I would then think Mrs W would need to pay 
the further premiums until she took out the alternative insurance and Building Block would 
need to assess those other claims. If Mrs W hasnt got further claims I will clarify that 
Building Block needs to reinstate the 2020/2023 policy until the date when it voided the 
policy and it should be recorded that Mrs W cancelled the policy at that date.
To summarise, on the evidence I have I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
Building Block to pay the vet fees in the two claims, less excesses, which is £649.48 less the 
premiums Mrs W needs to refund of £282.10. So Building Block should pay Mrs W £367.38 
in total for the two claims plus interest as Ive set out below.
I understand why Mrs W was confused when the claim handler acknowledged receipt of the 
second claim when it had already told Mrs W the first claim was declined and the policies 
had been voided. But I think Building Blocks apology for that error was reasonable and 
enough.
Responses to my provisional decision
Building Block didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said Id not referred to the vet 
notes showing that Mrs W had twice been told her dog was overweight before the policy 
started and also after she took out the policy. It also said the policy terms stated a dog isnt 
eligible for cover if overweight.
Mrs W said she didnt have anything more she wanted to claim against her Building Block 
policy and she confirmed her dog was now insured through a different insurer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional findings that Id looked at Mrs Ws dogs vet records and I thought 
she was told her dog was overweight before she bought the policy. Seven days after she 
bought the policy the vet notes say Weight Comment: sl overweight, adv to monitor. So to 
restate, I think Mrs W was told her dog was overweight. But Building Block voided the original and renewed policies, and declined the claims, on the 
basis that Mrs W hadnt taken reasonable care to not make a misrepresentation about her 
dogs weight during the policy sale and when the policy automatically renewed. I explained in 
my provisional findings why in all the circumstances I thought Building Block hadnt shown 
that Mrs W failed to take reasonable care, and its response hasnt changed my mind about 
that. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont think Mrs W 
made a misrepresentation about her dogs weight so Building Block couldnt rely on CIDRA 
to void the policies and decline the claims, and I think it acted unfairly in doing so.
Building Block has raised that the policy says a dog isnt eligible for cover if overweight. But 
I dont think it would be fair for Building Block to now want to rely on the weight criteria in the 
list of eligibility in the policy document to decline the claims. As Ive said, I dont think that 
unusual criteria for eligibility for cover was adequately highlighted at the sale of the policy 
and the SoFs sent to Mrs W to check at policy sale and renewal didnt include the weight 
eligibility criteria to highlight that to her.
Im satisfied the fair and reasonable outcome of this complaint is for Building Block to:
Reinstate the 2021/22 policy and reinstate the 2022/23 policy as Ive set out below.
Amend its records and any central databases to make sure any record of the 
avoidance is removed as Ive set out below.
Pay both claims less the excesses once Mrs W has repaid the premiums it refunded 
to her, as Ive set out below.
In my provisional findings I set out what I thought Building Block paying the two claims and  
Mrs W repaying the premiums it had refunded meant in monetary terms. I also explained 
why I thought Building Blocks suggestion that Mrs W should pay the whole years premium 
for the 2022/23 policy wasnt fair. Building Block has made no comment on those issues so 
Ive no reason to change my mind.
Mrs W has confirmed she now has alternative insurance for her dog and she has no other 
claims she wants to make on the Building Block policy. So Building Block needs to reinstate 
the 2020/2023 policy until the date when it voided the policy and it should be recorded that 
Mrs W cancelled the policy at that date.
Given Mrs Ws response, I confirm that Building Block must pay the vet fees in the two 
claims, less excesses, which is £649.48 less the premiums Mrs W needs to refund of 
£282.10. So Building Block should pay Mrs W £367.38 in total for the two claims plus 
interest as Ive set out below.
As I said in my provisional findings, I understand why Mrs W was confused when the claim 
handler acknowledged receipt of the second claim when it had already told Mrs W the first 
claim was declined and the policies had been voided. But I think Building Blocks apology for 
that error was reasonable and enough.
Putting things right
Building Block must reinstate the 2021/22 policy and the 2022/23 policy as set out below, 
amend its records and any central databases to make sure any record of the avoidance is 
removed and pay both claims less the excesses once Mrs W has repaid the premiums it refunded to her. That means it must pay Mrs W a total of £367.38 for her two disputed 
claims referred to in this complaint plus interest as set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd to:
Reinstate the 2021/22 policy, and
Reinstate the 2022/23 policy until the date when Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd 
voided the policy and it should be recorded that Mrs W cancelled the policy at that 
date, and
Amend its records and any central databases to make sure any record of the 
avoidance of those policies is removed, and
Pay Mrs W pay a total of £367.38 for her two disputed claims referred to in this 
complaint plus interest* at 8% simple a year from the dates of the claims to the date 
of settlement.
*If Building Block Insurance PCC Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman