DRN-2374830
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain about the service they received when contacting Santander UK Plc 
about their mortgage. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr and Mrs K contacted Santander to ask if an overpayment on their 
mortgage could be used to pay their recent monthly payment. An advisor at Santander 
looked into the enquiry but advised Mr and Mrs K that they were outside of the time frame to 
make this possible. On the same call the Santander adviser gave Mr and Mrs K the number 
for an additional support team  but Mr and Mrs K decided not to call. 
Mr and Mrs K say they then found out their mortgage account had been put into a payment 
holiday without them agreeing to it. This caused them stress and worry  so they contacted 
Santander again. The advisor at Santander looked into the issue and emailed the relevant 
team to correct its mistake. At this point Mr and Mrs K say they were worried about the 
impact it would have on their credit file. Mr and Mrs K left the call with the assumption the 
issue had been corrected. 
In April 2020 Mr and Mrs K noticed that their mortgage payment hadnt left their account  so 
they again contacted Santander. The advisor at Santander looked into the issue and 
reinstated Mr and Mrs Ks direct debit  this enabled the payment to be taken. At this point 
Mr and Mrs K raised a complaint with Santander. 
Santander looked into the complaint and upheld it. It said mistakes had been made and 
agreed to pay Mr and Mrs K £80 compensation. Around the same time Mr and Mrs K 
received a message via their online banking portal to say their account was still in a payment 
holiday. This point was investigated, and a further payment of compensation made. Bringing 
the total to £155. 
Mr and Mrs K say they are unhappy with the amount of compensation offered, so they 
brought a complaint to our service. They say they should be paid the equivalent of one 
months mortgage payment - around £900.
Our investigated looked into the complaint but found the amount of compensation to be in 
line with what our service would suggest  so he didnt find Santander needed to pay any 
more.
As Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me 
to issue a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive come to the same outcome as the investigator, for largely the same reasons. 
Ill explain why.  
Whats not in dispute here is that mistakes were made by Santander employees when 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Ks account  so I wont be investigating these points again. 
Santander have agreed these mistakes were made and there doesnt appear to be any 
discrepancies over either partys version of events. 
So, my decision will focus on the level of compensation offered and whether I think this is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When a complaint comes to our service and something is found to have gone wrong, we 
look to where possible put the consumer back in the position they would have been had the 
mistake not been made. We would then look to see if the consumer has been 
inconvenienced and award a trouble and upset payment where we find its due. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, Ive found the investigator has done this and I agree with 
the amount of the award.
Its clear Mr and Mrs K have been through a stressful time from the point they called 
Santander to discuss the overpayment, until the final complaint response was issued. 
Having said that I cant see that at any point Mr and Mrs Ks credit report has been impacted, 
and this appears to be the main cause of Mr and Mrs Ks concerns. The mortgage also didnt 
go unpaid leaving any permanent record of an issue on Mr and Mrs mortgage history.
Each time Mr and Mrs K called Santander to notify them of a mistake, the bank acted and 
rectified it. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K said they felt they were lied to, but Im satisfied 
this was more of a mistake  as the investigator has already eluded to. In correcting the 
errors, Santander have put Mr and Mrs K back in the position they would have been had the 
issues not occurred  so I dont find there is a need to do any more here.  
Mr and Mrs K did need to make several calls to get their issues sorted, and I understand the 
period between these calls did cause Mr and Mrs K some worry. But given the timescales 
involved in fixing the issues, Im satisfied Santander looked into and resolved the issue once 
they were made aware of it, and the £155 compensates them fairly for the issues and worry 
this caused. 
It worth highlighting to Mr and Mrs K that the awards made by our service are modest 
compared to other avenues consumers may use to raise a claim against a business  such 
as through the courts.
Given its unlikely there will be any further impact I can see stemming from the mistakes 
Santander made, and Mr and Mrs K are now back in the position they would have been 
before the errors occurred - I wont be asking Santander to do any more in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make any further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman