DRN-3451523
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) 
charged her success fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) complaints brought on 
behalf of her late husband. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs M completed a request for a free online PPI check for accounts relating 
to herself and her late husband. FTR sent Mrs M some paperwork to complete, but she 
didnt return it. She says her daughter helped her pursue the PPI complaints another way.
Mrs M says she didnt hear anything further from FTR until August 2021, when it wrote to her 
about offers from a lender. FTR sent Mrs M invoices for its fees which totalled almost 
£4,000. 
Mrs M phoned FTR who said it had only received notification from the lender about PPI 
compensation, even though it had been paid to her about a year before. Mrs M 
acknowledged that she had received a settlement from the lender and agreed to pay the fee. 
But a few days later, Mrs M called FTR and said she couldnt remember signing any forms 
giving FTR authority to pursue the claim. 
FTR sent Mrs M a copy of a letter of authority (LOA) with an electronic signature at the 
bottom. Mrs M raised a complaint with FTR. She said the signature on the form wasnt hers. 
She said FTR wouldnt have been able to progress a claim for her late husbands PPI 
without a certified copy of his Will and a Grant of Probate. Mrs M said she hadnt signed and 
returned paperwork FTR had sent her following her online enquiry and suggested it had 
submitted the claim without her authorisation. She also raised concerns about the service 
shed received from FTR including how shed been spoken to over the phone.
FTR said that it had received an online enquiry in August 2019 with Mrs Ms details provided 
as the joint applicant. Signatures were provided for both her and Mr M and FTR had acted in 
good faith with the details provided. FTR said Mrs Ms electronic signature was accepted by 
the lender. It hadnt received a request to cancel, so the claim was progressed in line with 
FTRs terms and conditions. FTR acknowledged that Mrs M was dissatisfied with the level of 
service Mrs M had received during a phone call, but it was satisfied the employee she spoke 
to was professional and wasnt threatening towards her. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 April 2022 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered Mrs Ms comments and the additional information shes 
provided Im persuaded to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied, from what Ive seen, that Mrs M completed a free PPI check on FTRs website 
on 19 August 2019. FTR has sent us a screenshot to show the information Mrs M supplied 
at the time. While Mrs M disputes signing for herself or her husband, I think that the 
electronic signatures FTR added to the LOAs were likely to have been provided by her as 
part of the online process. 
The LOA with Mr Ms details and a signature for the Policy Holder doesnt mention that    
Mr M was deceased. Nor does it mention anyone acting as executor for his estate. I dont 
think FTR would have been aware that Mr M was deceased at the time of the application. 
And I acknowledge that FTR submitted the claim to the lender in good faith. 
However, as Mr M died in 2015, a PPI a claim made in August 2019 would need to have 
been made on behalf of the estate of Mr M. And for FTR to be authorised to pursue a PPI 
claim for Mr M it would have needed to provide an LOA to the lender that correctly reflected 
the claim being made. The LOA would need to have shown both Mr Ms name and that of 
the person acting for the estate, in this case Mrs M, as she has grant of probate.
Mrs M has provided evidence to show that she submitted a PPI claim to the lender via a free 
online tool on 22 August 2019. I can also see that she provided documents to show she was 
authorised to pursue the claim on behalf of her late husbands estate to the lender after they 
had requested these directly from her. The lender went on to pay the settlement to Mrs M in 
respect of PPI sold to Mr M in mid-2020. So, I think the lender is likely to have acted in 
response to the submission Mrs M made via the online tool. And, Im satisfied that they 
settled the claim after she supplied the relevant documentation to show she was authorised 
to bring the claim on behalf of the estate of the late Mr M.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for FTR who appear to have carried out the PPI 
check in good faith, without being aware that it was in relation to a deceased consumer. I 
dont think it was likely to have been aware of this until it received a copy of the settlement 
offer letter from the lender in mid-2021. However, as I dont believe that FTR was authorised 
to pursue a PPI claim for Mr M, I dont think its entitled to charge a success fee for it.
I set out what I intended to direct FTR to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs M said she accepted my provisional decision.
FTR said that whilst it didnt agree with my decision, it did accept it. It said it would like it to 
be noted that if it had been provided with truthful information from the outset, it would not 
have proceeded with the claim and it would not have reached the stage it had with our 
service.
FTR also expressed concerns about how my decision might impact the behaviour of other 
clients wishing to make claims on behalf of deceased people. It asked for its comments to be 
forwarded to senior management within our organisation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that FTR is disappointed with the outcome of this complaint. I dont doubt it 
acted in good faith when it carried out the PPI check. I have shared FTRs comments with 
senior management in the Claims Management Ombudsman service as requested. But 
these comments havent made a difference to the conclusions Ive reached. As I dont think 
FTR had authority to pursue the PPI claim on behalf of the late Mr M, I dont think its entitled 
to charge a success fee.
Putting things right
FTR should waive the success fee its charged Mrs M in relation to the claim for PPI sold to 
the late Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Quickly Finance 
Limited, trading as Fast Track Reclaim to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman