DRN-3662495
The Complaint
Mr and Mrs B say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with their claims under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation 
to their purchase of a holiday product on 19 August 2008 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs B purchased a points-based timeshare at the Time of Sale from a timeshare 
provider (the Supplier). And they paid for that purchase using a loan from GE Money (the 
Credit Agreement).
Unhappy with what happened, Mr and Mrs B  using a professional representative (PR)  
made claims in August 2018 under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA for misrepresentation 
and an unfair relationship. There were a number of reasons for the claims. But as those are 
familiar to both sides, it isnt necessary to repeat them here.
GE Money treated the claims as a complaint and issued its final response in November 2020 
rejecting them.
Mr and Mrs B had already referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service by the 
time GE Money issued its final response. So, in January 2022, GE Money provided the 
Service with its file. Much of what it had to say on this complaint remained the same as what 
it said in its final response. But rather than argue that there wasnt right arrangement in place 
to make the relevant CCA claims, it questioned the Financial Ombudsman Services 
jurisdiction  which, as I understand it, is an argument GE Money is no longer making in this 
complaint.
The complaint was then looked at by an investigator who, having considered the information 
available to him, concluded that the claims under Sections 75 and 140A had been made out 
of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
PR disagreed with the investigators view. It accepted that the relationship between 
Mr and Mrs B and GE Money had probably come to an end some time before the claim was 
made. But it thought that time should be extended based on Mr and Mrs Bs date of 
knowledge.
PR argued that, while Mr and Mrs B were aware that they had a legitimate grievance, they 
would not have been aware that they had an actionable claim until they took legal advice in 
late 2017. In particular, they could not have been expected to have known that the length of 
their membership was perpetual, contrary to Spanish law and so unlawful.
PR also argued that, given the facts of this complaint, the unlawfulness of Mr and Mrs Bs 
purchase agreement was concealed by the Supplier as was the fact that they could 
relinquish their membership, at any time, by giving 28 days notice of their intention to do so 
 which extends time under Section 32 of the LA.
The complaint was then passed to a senior investigator who, in response to what PR had to 
say after the investigators assessment, said the following:
s.32 LA states that in cases of fraud, concealment or mistake, the limitation period only 
starts to run from when a claimant discovers the fraud, concealment or mistake (or could 
have discovered it using reasonable diligence). But I cant see that weve been provided with 
any detail about why you consider there was any concealment on GE Moneys part. And I 
havent seen an explanation as to how this applies to Mr and Mrs Bs claim that GE Money 
misrepresented the nature and benefits of the timeshare that would mean s.32 would apply. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I cant see that there was any fraud, concealment or 
mistake.
And I havent seen anything to say that the relevant time limits would likely be extended in 
this case.
Ultimately, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant claims against the supplier 
or GE Money have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information 
available, any claim that might exist against GE Money is likely to have been made outside 
the time limits set out in the Limitation Act. With this in mind, Im inclined to agree with my 
colleagues findings that GE Money does not need to do anything to put things right in this 
complaint.
However, as an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 22 July 2022. And in summary, I found that 
Mr and Mrs Bs claims under Sections 75 and 140A had been made out of time under the 
LA.
GE Money had nothing further to add in response to my PD. But PR disagreed and 
submitted a 46-page document from a barrister called Generic submissions on behalf of 
complainants  the contents of which I wont set out here for practical reasons.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, Ive considered this 
complaint for a Final Decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the Generic submissions on behalf of complainants  which deals with the 
merits of claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA rather than the issue of limitation.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, Ive made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what 
I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
But before I get on to the substance of my findings, I want to repeat what I said about my 
role as an ombudsman in my PD. It isnt to address every single point thats been made to 
date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this 
complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all 
of the submissions from both sides in full, I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that 
have been made, insofar as they relate to this complaint, when doing that.
Was the right arrangement in place to engage Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA?
Under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a 
precondition to the claims made under those provisions. In GE Moneys final response, it 
didnt think there was such an arrangement in place before appearing to drop that argument 
in favour of one on jurisdiction. But as determining whether there was the right arrangement 
in place to engage the provisions in question is relevant to my decision, Ive considered the 
issue anyway.
As I said in my PD, determining whether there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement isnt usually as simple as GE Moneys final response suggests. However, I still 
dont think its necessary to make a formal finding on this point at this stage because, even if 
I did find that there was a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place, for reasons I get on to 
below, I continue to think GE Money has a defence to the claims in question under the LA.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr and Mrs B made a like claim against GE Money under Section 75 of the CCA and the 
limitation period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. As a 
result, they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a 
claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because it was at that time that they 
entered into them based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as the loan 
from GE Money was used to help finance the purchase, it was at the Time of Sale that they 
suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued at the Time of Sale  which means that
Mr and Mrs B had six years from that time to make a claim. But as they didnt do that until
August 2018, their claim is likely to have been late under the LA. And for that reason, I still 
think GE Money had and has a defence to it.
The Section 140A Claim
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr and Mrs B and
GE Money was unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to
consider it provided the Section applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.As I said in my PD, GE Money cant trace Mr and Mrs Bs account because it says that, in 
line with its retention policy, any records in relation to the Credit Agreement are likely to have 
been destroyed because it ended more than six years before this claim was made. As 
Mr and Mrs B havent disputed this in response to my provisional findings, given the 
information available, I still think its more likely than not that the Credit Agreement ended at 
least six years prior to the point at which this claim was made.
With that being the case, Ive considered the provisions under the LA again. As Ive said 
before, it was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] that the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date the credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the 
limitation period is six years, and as this claim was only made in August 2018, I still think 
GE Money is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim as well. And for that reason, 
I see no reason to ask it to do anything further in relation to this claim either.
Grounds to Extend Time
PR argues that, while Mr and Mrs B knew they had a legitimate grievance, they werent
aware that they had an actionable claim until more recently. It also says that the limitation 
period should be extended under Section 32 of the LA because Mr and Mrs B werent aware 
that their membership was perpetual (which it says is illegal under Spanish law) and they 
werent aware that they could relinquish their membership by giving 28 days notice to do so 
as that was also concealed from them.
On my reading of the LA, it provides for time to be extended in certain circumstances rather 
than simply because Mr and Mrs B didnt know that they could make their claims against
GE Money. So, given the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the LA draws the 
same distinction as PR does when it says theres a material difference between the 
discovery of a legitimate grievance and actionable claim.
As for the reasons PR gives for why time should be extended under Section 32 of the LA, it 
still hasnt provided any evidence that reliably corroborates the suggestion that the purchase 
agreement entered into by Mr and Mrs B was governed by Spanish rather than English law. 
So, I still cant see how Spanish law can be applied directly to the question as to whether the 
purchase agreement was/is voidable under English law.
Whats more, Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action 
has been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant [my emphasis]. Yet it remains 
the case that I havent seen anything to persuade me that the Supplier deliberately 
concealed anything about how the purchase agreement complied or didnt comply with the 
relevant law and/or regulations.
The same can also be said of the 28-day notice period that PR says was kept from 
Mr and Mrs B. And as I cant see why, given the allegations fuelling each claim, this 
particular issue prevented them from making the claims earlier, I dont think PRs argument 
helps Mr and Mrs Bs cause.
So, Im still not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended in keeping with 
the provisions of the LA.Conclusion
As Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and Mrs B 
may have against GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the 
information available, thats likely to have been the case. So, given the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think theres anything GE Money has to do to put things right on this 
occasion.
My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman