DRN-3186195
The complaint
Mr J complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance (UKI) has 
provided poor service during his home insurance claim.
What happened
Mr J made two separate claims with UKI under his home insurance policy in April 2020. One 
was for escape of water and the other for accidental damage to a hob when a pan was 
dropped on it.
Both claims were subject to a series of poor communications and delays so Mr J made 
complaints to UKI about the service hed had. Mr J remained unhappy and he brought his 
complaint to this service about the way UKI had calculated and settled his escape of water 
claim. An ombudsman looked at Mr Js complaint in May 2020 and didnt uphold it. She said 
she thought UKI acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions 
and didnt ask it to do anything else or pay any compensation to Mr J. 
The ombudsman also said in her decision that Mr J had only complained about how the 
settlement was calculated and if Mr J wanted to complain about how long it took to resolve 
the claim then he could do so by complaining to UKI.
Mr J had also complained about his hob claim. UKI responded to both complaints about both 
claims together. It agreed that its service had been poor and awarded Mr J £225 
compensation for the poor service hed had on both claims.
Mr J brought his complaint about the delays in his hob claim to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think UKI needed to do anything more. He 
said that he could see that UKIs service had been inconsistent at times and there had been 
periods of inactivity. But he was satisfied that UKIs payment of £225 related to the delays 
and poor service for both claims and was fair given the circumstances of Mr Js complaint.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators view and has asked that an Ombudsman review his 
complaint, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr J that Ive read and considered everything that both he and UKI have 
said when reaching my decision. Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Having read the case file with many emails and messages between Mr J and UKI I can 
understand why the claims process was complex. I can see from the evidence provided by 
UKI that there were lapses in its claims service during both claims. 
UKIs service problems meant that Mr J was without a hob for a lengthy period of time, but I 
can also see that Mr J made decisions at various points of his claim that meant UKI were 
restricted in its ability to settle his claim as quickly as it might. UKI has said that it told Mr J 
about the potential impacts of some of his decisions early on in the claims process. 
Its clear from UKIs final response letter that the compensation was for both claims Mr J had 
made, as it refers to both of your claims and both claims are referenced by number. UKI 
have not provided evidence of how the £225 compensation paid to Mr J was divided 
between the two claims, so I have considered the impact on Mr J caused by him not having 
a working hob for about ten months. 
I can see that Mr J talks about the inconvenience for his family of not having a hob, only 
being able to use limited facilities in their kitchen and having to eat out more often. But I can 
only find this briefly mentioned in his correspondence with UKI so Im not persuaded that Mr 
J found it very frustrating or that its had a significant financial impact on him.
But that doesnt mean UKI shouldnt pay Mr J compensation for his inconvenience so I must 
look at the amount of compensation already paid to Mr J by UKI. The overall amount of 
compensation paid was £225 which is in line with what this service would expect. It follows 
that I think UKIs overall payment of £225 is fair and reasonable and Im not going to ask 
them to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman