DRN-3518066
The complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim he 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system he says were misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In November 2015 Mr B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk 
about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. After Ps 
initial visit Mr B decided he didnt want to go ahead with the purchase. He thought the price, 
£9,000.00, was too high. P contacted Mr B again in December 2015 and offered the system 
for a price of £7,900.00. Mr B then decided to go ahead with the purchase and finance it 
through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In February 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr B to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
Although Mr B would be paying out a monthly amount under the finance agreement, 
this would be covered by the savings and income produced by the system. 
The system would be self-funding and free due to the savings that the system would 
deliver. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr B or 
that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mr B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, including for the following reasons:
P had been subject to disciplinary proceeding as a member of The Renewable 
Energy Consumer Code (RECC), had accepted there had been some breaches of 
the code and resigned as a member of RECC in 2017.
The high court upheld a claim against another finance provider relating to the sale of 
solar panels where they were misrepresented as being self-funding.
Mr B says that, in summary, the sales pitch advised him that the benefits form the 
system will cover the cost, therefore, he would not actually be out of pocket each 
month and once the system is paid off, he would make profit.
The CMC thinks our adjudicator placed too much reliance on the quote and not 
enough on what Mr B said. 
The quote was not provided to Mr B until after the sales presentation and Mr B says 
he was not taken through this or shown the tables or graphs within it, which 
contradict what he was told. So, he was not able to look at this until after the sale had 
been agreed.
In parts of the quote the finance cost is not factored into the calculations about when 
the system will break even.
The amended quote with the lower purchase price for the system is unsigned. 
The CMC says that Ps sales literature and training documents indicate the benefits 
would cover the finance.
The actual benefits provided by Mr Bs system are less than shown in the quote.
The CMC says Mr Bs sole reason for buying the system was as an investment to 
make money. And if hed realised there would be a deficit in the first year and that he 
wouldnt make his money back for 16 years, this would not have been an attractive 
proposition. And he wouldnt have agreed to the purchase. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr B says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
There are two versions of this in Mr Bs case, the original used at the time of the meeting 
and the amended version after the price was reduced. Ive considered these, along with 
Mr Bs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most 
likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. I think it is likely that the original quote was used at the 
sales meeting (since the amended quote was produced later after the agreed price was 
changed), and I explain below what both the original and amended quotes showed. So, Ive 
taken this into account, along with the Mr Bs version of events (including that Mr B says he 
did not see the amended quote before agreeing to the purchase) when considering if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
On balance, Im satisfied that Mr B was told that the cost of the system was £7,900.00. He 
has confirmed that he agreed to the purchase at this price having in effect negotiated a 
discount. The amended quote also sets this out clearly. This is supported by the credit 
agreement which sets out that the cash price of the system was £7,900.00. The monthly 
payment was £85.81. The total amount of credit is £7,900.00 and the total amount payable 
would be £15,445.80.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mr Bs recollections, Im satisfied that he was 
told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote also makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £7,900.00, it would 
cost Mr B more than this as he had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mr B has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments. Ive considered the quote that was provided by P as well as 
the Mr Bs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to decide what is most likely 
to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
The screen shots and figures below are from the amended quote which reflected the lower 
purchase price. The original quote showed slightly different figures which I have also 
included. I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £422.67 (the original quote showed £435.53), which results in an 
average monthly income of £35.22 (£36.29 based on the original quote). As outlined above, 
Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the amended quote set out that there would be a 
monthly loan repayment due. This was shown on the loan agreement as being £85.81 per 
month. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr B was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £191.99 (the original quote had the same figure) 
and, when taking into account the optional extras chosen by Mr B the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £681.33 (the original quote showed £694.19). This is shown 
in a table titled Putting it all together
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mr B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £84.41 (the original quote showed £96.16). For each 
year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. It then 
averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £84.41 
(£96.16 on the original quote), to give an average difference between the monthly return 
from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
Whilst I accept that the table above doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly 
loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits he could expect to receive 
by way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to 
cover the monthly loan repayments. The original quote showed the same, but with an 
average monthly deficit until year 10 rather than year 7.
The quote also includes the following graph, which shows the monthly loan repayments in 
year one against the expected monthly income and savings. I think the graph is clear that 
the monthly payments will be more than the total benefits for most months during the first 
year. The original quote had a similar graph which showed the monthly benefits would not 
exceed the monthly payments for any month in the first year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan repayments. This 
supports my finding above that Mr B wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the loan 
repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mr Bs version of events. However, as Ive found that 
the original quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr B was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mr B that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits that Mr B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
The figures on the original quote were not significantly different, with the total benefit after 20 
years of £23,400.33 rather than 23,059.18
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 16, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote and a similar table in 
the original quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was 
what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently suffered a loss, that would 
amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr B. The MCS certificate and quote sets out that the system is 
expected to produce 2,924 kWh a year.
I have looked at Mr B FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,997 kWh. This is slightly more than estimated by P at the point of sale, so Im 
satisfied that the system is performing as expected.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2021 and the overall increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale. I 
think this explains why Mr B hasnt been receiving the overall benefits he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower. Likewise, the FIT payments have not increased as much as 
anticipated.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr B couldve 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr B entered into the contract.
The CMCs additional comments in response to the adjudicators assessment
The RECC disciplinary hearing and the court decision mentioned by the CMC provide some 
background to issues in this case. However, Mr Bs sale was not a part of those hearings or 
court cases, and they do not in my opinion show there was a systemic issue with Ps sales 
practices at the time of Mr Bs sale. The facts in the court case were also different, where it 
appears the documented information provided about benefits of the system were limited to 
returns in the first year only. So, while I have taken them into account, I think the evidence 
specific to Mr Bs sale is more relevant to my decision. 
Likewise, the training materials and promotional literature referred to is undated. It is unclear 
whether this was in use at the time of Mr Bs sale. While I have taken this into account, I do 
not think it is particularly persuasive one way or another. As well as aspects that may 
support Mr Bs claim, the materials also make clear, for example, the salespersons 
responsibilities under the Act and the RECC. 
I have considered all of Mr Bs comments and recollections when making my decision. 
However, having done so alongside all the available evidence, I have concluded that P did 
not misrepresent the system in the way it has been claimed. I appreciate that Mr B and the 
CMC will be disappointed by this. 
The CMC suggests that Mr B being sent a copy of the quote after the sales meeting in 
November means he did not have time to see or consider this before agreeing to the 
purchase. But, in this case, it appears that Mr B initially took some time after the meeting to 
consider the purchase and initially declined to buy the system. He only agreed to the 
purchase in December after he was offered a lower price. It is unclear if he saw the updated 
quote or was taken through this by a representative of P before agreeing to the purchase -  
Mr B says he was not and that seems plausible given there was not to my knowledge a 
second sales meeting. But I think he was likely taken through the original quote during the 
sales meeting. And this was even more clear that the benefits would not initially cover the 
monthly loan repayments. 
While parts of the quote do mention a pay back time which doesnt factor in the cost of the 
loan, I think that this wouldve been made clear to Mr B. In one part of the quote it clearly 
states that the payback time mentioned is for a cash purchase and will be longer if finance is 
taken. And the tables and graphs mentioned above do include the cost of the loan  in 
particular the one showing there will be on average a monthly deficit for the first eight years. 
SummaryHaving carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman