DRN-3592603
The complaint
G complains that NFU Mutual did not send a loss adjuster out to look at a damaged grain 
store wall, and then declined Gs claim for impact/accidental damage. G wants NFU to pay 
the claim and reimburse G for expenses incurred.
What happened
G operates an agricultural business and owns a grain store barn. This is used to store grain 
between the months of August and March of the following year. The grain is loaded and 
unloaded by industrial vehicles, using scoop buckets. G insured its buildings with NFU 
Mutual.
In May 2021, G submitted two claims to NFU Mutual. One was for storm damage to the grain 
store roof, and the other claim was for damage to the concrete wall, which was bowing 
outwards.
A loss adjuster attended in relation to the storm damage claim in June 2021 and took 
photographs which included the bowing wall. The storm damage claim was subsequently 
settled.
G submitted a quote for repairs to the wall from its building contractor.
NFU Mutual did not send a loss adjuster specifically in relation to the grain store wall claim.
In June 2021, NFU Mutual declined Gs claim for the wall. NFU Mutual stated that the 
damage fell outside of the scope of cover. It said that the builders quote had detailed that the 
damage to the wall had been caused by the pushing and loading of buckets on the JCB, and 
that this had caused the wall to bow. NFU Mutual considered that this was something which 
had happened gradually over time, and so was not covered by the specific perils policy. 
G did not accept this and contacted us.
Our investigator looked into this matter and did not uphold the complaint. He considered that 
NFU Mutual had acted reasonably in its decision to decline the claim without sending a Loss 
Adjuster specifically for the grain store wall. 
G did not accept that view. 
I previously set out my preliminary view in a provisional decision in June 2022. That decision 
has been shared and the parties invited to comment. 
In that decision I set out that I agreed with the investigators view as I did not consider that 
there was evidence of an impact or accidental damage, outside of the buildings normal use. 
I therefore did not think that it had been demonstrated that an insured peril had taken place, 
and so it was reasonable for NFU Mutual to decline the claim. 
G has made submissions in response to that provisional decision. G takes issue with 
comment by NFU Mututals surveyor about the age of cracks which he observed. G says 
that there could not have been water staining around the cracks (which I had understood as 
meaning that the cracks were not new when the surveyor saw them in 2021). G has said that 
if water had penetrated then the grain would have been affected and a claim for lost grain 
would have been made.
G also repeats its belief that the damage occurred in 2020, over the course of the 3 days of 
loading the grain store. G does not consider that this would be damage sustained over time 
and would still be an insured peril. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Gs upset, but the submissions received do not alter my provisional view. 
I accept Gs comments about water not having ingressed through cracks. I do not think that 
this makes a difference, however, as the staining was mentioned to support the surveyors 
view that the cracks were not very recent. 
Gs view is that the cracks appeared in August 2020 so I do not find these details to be 
contradictory, and I remain of the view that the damage occurred in 2020. 
In addition, G contends that the damage was sustained through the loading process. I do not 
disagree, but think that it has not been shown that there was any impact or accidental 
damage beyond the usual use of the building. It appears that the loading process was the 
same as usual, but at that time the wall had deteriorated so that it could no longer sustain 
the horizontal forces for which it was designed. 
I therefore remain of the view that it was reasonable for NFU Mutual to conclude that there 
had not been an insured peril, and so to decline the claim. 
Consequently, I do not uphold the complaint and do not ask NFU Mutual to do anything 
further. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to G, but I hope it clearly explains my reasons for 
reaching it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold Gs complaint 
and do not ask The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman