DRN-2561791
The complaint
Miss M believes Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans (Oakbrook), acted 
irresponsibly by agreeing a loan shed applied for.
What happened
In May 2017 Miss M took out a £2,000 loan with Oakbrook, to be repaid over 24 months with 
repayments of £151.92 a month. The loan was repaid in October 2019.
Miss M complained that Oakbrook didnt act responsibly when approving the loan. She said 
Oakbrook shouldnt have approved the loan because at the time she was in a continuous 
spiral of debt, and reliant on short-term payday loans, because of ongoing health problems 
 shed retired from work due to ill health in May 2012. Oakbrook didnt agree, so Miss M 
brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said Oakbrook carried out a credit check on Miss M, and they considered 
her income and expenditure, when making their lending decision. The investigator said this 
showed that Miss M could afford the loan shed applied for. The investigator also said that, 
although Miss M had said her credit commitments were higher than Oakbrook had 
accounted for, these didnt show on the credit file. And the investigator hadnt seen anything 
to show that Miss M had made Oakbrook aware of these. 
The investigator also said that Miss M said shed retired from work due to ill health and had 
been very ill a few times since. But the investigator hadnt seen that Oakbrook were aware of 
this either. And, she also said that, as she was retired, it was likely that Miss Ms income 
wouldve been consistent, regardless of her health condition at any given time.
Because of this, the investigator said she could only expect Oakbrook to make their decision 
based on the information they had available to them at the time  which they did. So she 
didnt think Oakbrook needed to do anything else.
Miss M didnt agree. Shes sent copies of her credit reports dated 5 January, 23 October and 
28 November 2017, which she says shows the serious, unstable and dire situation my 
current finances were in at that present time which [Oakbrook] would have been able to 
see. Miss M also says that she had a pattern of unstable, unaffordable and repetitive 
borrowing, so she doesnt think that Oakbrook shouldve agreed the loan she applied for. 
And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
I also need to consider whether the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Ive seen the documents Oakbrook checked at the time they approved Miss Ms loans.
On the application form, Miss M declared she was retired, with an annual income of £26,686. 
Oakbrook have explained that they dont have a physical credit report from the time Miss M 
made her application, as they extract the data into an overview report. Which also verifies 
the declared income. But they have provided a copy of the overview report, as well as an up 
to date credit report which shows the information the overview report wouldve been based 
on at the time.
The overview report contains very little data  it shows Miss M had nine active credit 
accounts at the time of application, owed a total of £7,000, and had passed the credit check. 
Because of the limited information on this report, Ive mainly considered the up to date credit 
report, and what it shows was Miss Ms financial position at the time of her application.
The credit report shows that Miss M had three credit cards, three loans and three mortgage 
accounts. But, crucially, although two of the mortgage accounts were active at the time Miss 
M applied for the loan, the credit reference agencies didnt start to report these until January 
2020. So Oakbrook werent aware of them. And I havent seen anything to show me that 
Miss M made Oakbrook aware of them either. 
Two of the credit cards and all of the loans show as having all payments up to date, with no 
historic arrears. One credit card is showing as having late payments in 2015 and 2016, but 
all payments being up to date since September 2016. And the only mortgage showing at the 
time shows historic arrears of up to two payments but being up to date since August 2016.
The credit report also shows that Miss M had used short-term lending in the past but hadnt 
done so since 2016. All of these loans were settled, and all payments were made with no 
historic arrears. Theres nothing to show that Miss M was reliant on short-term payday loans 
at the time she made the application to Oakbrook.
Different lenders have different lending criteria, so I cant say that Oakbrook shouldve 
automatically declined the loan because of the historic arrears, or the use of short-term 
lending in the past. But I would expect them to take this into consideration when making their 
lending decision. And I havent seen anything to show that they didnt.
Ive also looked at the credit report Miss M has provided for 5 January 2017 (the other two 
are dated after she took the loan with Oakbrook, so dont reflect her position at the time the 
loan was taken out). And Ive noted that its from a different provider than Oakbrook use.This shows the three credit cards, including the historic arrears in 2015 and 2016, and 
confirms a total balance outstanding on these cards of £1,529. It also shows two loans (not 
the three Oakbrook were taking into consideration) and it doesnt show any active 
mortgages. Theres also nothing on this credit report to indicate that Miss M was in a debt 
spiral or reliant on short-term lending.
Because of this, Im satisfied that the credit reference details Oakbrook used showed an 
accurate reflection of what credit reference providers were reporting about Miss Ms financial 
situation in early 2017.
Miss M had a monthly income of £1,786. She had loan payments of £677 (although a loan of 
£132 was cleared with the Oakbrook loan) and credit card payments of around £76 (based 
on 5% of the outstanding balance reported at the time). After paying her mortgage (reported 
at £420 a month) and the £152 payment to Oakbrook, this wouldve left Miss M with £461 
(rising to £593 the day after she took this loan, which is when she repaid the existing loan) to 
pay her household bills and other expenses  her disposable income was 26% of what she 
received, rising to 33% when she repaid the loan the day after Oakbrook advanced her the 
money.
Because of this, based on the information Oakbrook had available to them at the time, Im 
satisfied the loan was affordable and Oakbrook didnt act unreasonably by agreeing it.
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Not all lending is reported to all of the credit reference agencies, and Oakbrook could only 
take into consideration the information they were provided with  from the credit reference 
agency they used and from Miss M. And Ive seen they did this.
Miss M has said she retired due to ill health and has had ongoing health problems. But I 
wouldnt expect Oakbrook to decline a loan just because someone was ill. And, as a retired 
person, Miss M was receiving a pension income that would be unaffected by her ongoing 
health problems. So it was reasonable for Oakbrook to base their lending on this income.
And I havent seen anything to make me think Oakbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way.
So I remain satisfied that Oakbrook didnt act unreasonably when approving Miss Ms loan, 
and I wont be asking them to refund any payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Oakbrook Finance 
Limited trading as Likely Loans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman