DRN-4346687
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy because he was led to believe by NewDay Ltd that his account was in 
credit by £192. Mr B spent the funds as he believed he had this to spend but later found out 
that the balance on the account was incorrect as further transactions were debited.
What happened
Mr B opened an Amazon account in November 2021. NewDay ended its partnership with 
Amazon in 2022 and Mr Bs account was migrated to Pulse in September 2022.
Mr B logged in to his account using the app and saw from his available balance that he was 
in credit. He wasnt expecting to be in credit, so he called NewDay and was advised by an 
agent that a back end credit of £250 had been applied to the account although the agent 
didnt know why.
Mr B was under the impression that he had available funds to spend, so he used the money 
to purchase an item.
The next time Mr B logged in to his account using the app he discovered that the credit 
balance had been debited from the account.
Mr B complained to NewDay. He didnt think it had acted fairly in crediting and then debiting 
his account.
NewDay didnt uphold the complaint. It said that transactions and credits to and from Mr Bs 
account could take anywhere from 3  7 days to clear.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that he was persuaded that there had been 
an administration error with regards to Mr Bs account and the information that was available 
to him in respect of the credit balance via the app. The investigator said he didnt think 
NewDay had done enough to put things right and said NewDay should pay £100 
compensation to Mr B for distress and inconvenience. 
NewDay didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator. Ill explain why,
Mr B has told this service that when he spoke to the advisor at NewDay, he was told that a 
credit in respect of a balance transfer had been applied to his account. Mr B says he told 
NewDay that he hadnt requested a balance transfer and he didnt know where it had come 
from. 
Mr B has told this service that a credit of £240 was credited and showed in the app as a 
credit balance. Mr B proceeded to purchase items believing that he was in credit.
Ive reviewed the evidence provided by NewDay. It says that all balances, transactions and 
statements are correct. But Im not persuaded that this is the case. Mr Bs testimony and the 
call recordings persuade me that there was some sort of administration error on Mr Bs 
account, and that this cant be explained by pending transactions. 
I appreciate that the advisor at NewDay took some advice from a colleague and then told Mr 
B that the balance transfer wasnt in relation to Mr Bs account. But Mr Bs account was still 
showing as being in credit on the app according to Mr B, so I understand why he was 
confused.
Taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that NewDay made an 
administration error in relation to a balance transfer being credited to Mr Bs account which 
was meant for a different consumer and was later debited. And although NewDay has now 
acknowledged that Mr B was given incorrect information about his account, I dont think this 
is enough to put things right.
Putting things right
Its clear that Mr B has been caused a significant amount of worry. He spent money that he 
thought was his, only to find that it had been debited again. This has left Mr B feeling 
confused and worried about repaying the account. Taking this into consideration I think its 
fair to ask NewDay to pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr B.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd must pay compensation of £100 
to Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman