DRN-3739835
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc reported missed payments on her credit file, 
even though there was an arrangement to pay in place. She says the reports are, therefore, 
not accurate and should be corrected. 
What happened
Mrs M has a Bank of Scotland credit card account. Throughout 2018 she made payments of 
around £100 a month, slightly more than the minimum required. Her November 2018 
required her to make a minimum payment of £116.21. Mrs M was however unable to make 
that payment and she instead paid £5 about a week before the due date. In the meantime, 
she sought advice from a debt charity, S. 
Mrs S contacted the bank to explain the situation. She said that she was working with S to 
set up a debt management plan. She could make payments of £10.83 a month towards her 
credit card debt of nearly £10,000.
Bank of Scotland said that it would accept the payments on a temporary basis and would 
suspend interest and charges on the account. In its letter responding to the proposals, it said 
that, despite its concession, the terms of the credit card agreement remained in force and 
that Mrs M remained liable to make the full monthly payments. It would transfer the account 
to Recoveries. 
On 4 December 2018 Bank of Scotland sent Mrs M a default notice, requiring her to put right 
the default on the account by paying £111.21 by 22 December 2018. The letter outlined the 
steps which the bank might take if no payment were received by that date, including 
requiring full payment of the account balance. 
Mrs M was unable to clear the arrears as the bank had requested and on 22 December 2018 
it demanded payment in full of more than £9,500.  
Bank of Scotland recorded the default with credit reference agencies. Mrs M said this was 
inaccurate and that it should have reported that there was an arrangement to pay. She 
referred the matter to this service, but our investigator thought that the bank had reported 
what had happened fairly and accurately. Bank of Scotland had agreed to accept the lower 
payments but had explained that the contractual payments remained due. Mrs M did not 
accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When they subscribe to credit reference agencies, lenders such as Bank of Scotland agree 
with those agencies and with other subscribers that they will report information fairly and 
accurately. They owe a duty to their customers only to record fair and accurate information 
as well. That enables other subscribers to rely on the information submitted and ensures that 
customers are treated fairly. 
In this case, Mrs M says that a payment arrangement was in place, and that this is what 
should have been reported. I do not think however that is a true reflection of what had 
happened. Mrs M had, with S, made a payment proposal, based on what she could afford. I 
do not believe however that Bank of Scotland had accepted that proposal. I think it made 
clear in its correspondence that, whilst it would accept the payments offered, it was doing so 
as a temporary concession and that the contractual terms still applied. 
In my view, that was not an unreasonable approach here. An arrangement to pay generally 
refers to a short-term arrangement where the customer is expected to be in a position to 
resume contractual payments. In this case, however, Mrs Ms payment difficulties were likely 
to be long-term. The bank had indicated that, unless arrears were cleared, it was likely the 
account would be passed to its recoveries department. 
I therefore share the investigators view that the information which Bank of Scotland reported 
was fair and accurate. It had not agreed to a payment arrangement and had, I think, 
explained that clearly to Mrs M. In the circumstances, it was reasonable for the bank to 
decline Mrs Ms proposals, other than on a very short-term basis.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mrs Ms complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman