DRN-3869970
The complaint
Mr T complains that he was mis-led by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) which 
resulted in him paying an early repayment charge (ERC) rather than being able to port his 
mortgage product.
What happened
Before April 2021 Mr T had three properties with three mortgages with RBS: a buy to let 
mortgage (Property A), a residential mortgage with a consent to let (Property B) and a 
residential mortgage (Property C). Mr T decided to sell properties A and B to his own limited 
liability companies, raise additional funds on Property C with RBS and let it with a consent to 
let and buy another property to live in partly using the funds generated from the additional 
borrowing on Property C. Mr T had a plan in mind. I understand the basis of the plan  to 
transfer the properties to a company  was to facilitate access to government finance if a 
similar situation arose as with the Coronavirus Pandemic. The next stage was to apply for 
additional finance on Property C and then buy Property D which was a property Mr T had in 
mind to live in.  Mr T got an agreement in principle for further borrowing on Property C and 
checked with RBS as regards the ERC situation on the mortgages. Mr T says that in one of 
the calls with RBS he was told that if I got a new residential mortgage within three months of 
surrendering my last mortgage I would be refunded the ERCs Moreover I was told that I 
could not start this process until I had got an offer accepted on a property I wanted to buy.
Mr T redeemed the mortgages on Properties A and B in April 2021 and paid two ERCs. 
According to RBSs criteria if Mr T had an offer already accepted on another property, say a 
Property D, Mr T would have had had a four-month window to complete the purchase of that 
property - after redeeming one of the other mortgages - and port one of the mortgage 
products. After Mr T sold Properties A and B to his own company, he then applied for further 
borrowing on Property C to allow him to buy Property D. But Mr Ts application for the further 
borrowing was refused as he had failed a credit check although he understood from the 
credit reference agencies that his credit score was excellent. This meant that Mr T couldnt 
get the additional borrowing on Property C, and couldnt buy Property D and, so, couldnt 
port any of his mortgage products to a new mortgage on Property D. I understand Mr T was 
able to get the borrowing elsewhere that he required for Property C some six months later.
Mr T complains that his application shouldnt have been refused, that he was given 
contradictory advice as he was told by RBS that he should have asked to port his personal 
mortgage before he sold the property and not after he had done so, and that RBS should 
have advised him in a way that he would have managed to avoid paying the ERCs.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that RBS 
acted reasonably in refusing the additional borrowing based on Mr T failing its credit checks. 
Further that Mr Ts actions would have occurred regardless as Mr T was looking to relocate. 
Mr T disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ts complaint as formulated in his email of 15 September 2022 is about the poor advice 
he was given on the sequencing of events to ensure that one or both of the ERCs was 
returned to him. Mr T says that he should have been told to keep Property A or B in his 
name until he had found Property D and moved the mortgage over. Mr T understood that 
this could be done up to three months after sale, but RBS gave him confusing advice.
Mr Ts motivation was to transfer two of the properties to his limited company to change the 
business model within which he operated as he lost out on funding during the Coronavirus 
Pandemic, and to buy a house for himself. But he had to pay ERCs which he couldnt 
reclaim and missed out on the house - Property D that he wanted to buy. This seems a 
complex set of arrangements involving residential mortgages, buy to lets, consent to lets 
private individuals and limited companies and ERCs.  
There appears to be three complaints. Firstly, the application for additional borrowing 
shouldnt have been refused. Secondly that Mr T was told that as long as he took out a new 
mortgage within three months of redeeming his mortgage, he could transfer the ERC not that 
he must apply for a new mortgage before he redeemed the old one. Thirdly that RBS didnt 
give him the advice he required in sequencing these transactions to avoid paying the ERCs.
The banks position is that it fairly refused the application for additional borrowing and in 
those circumstances whether Mr T was misinformed or not about the timing of when a port 
could be done, as Mr T couldnt get access to a new mortgage, he wouldnt have been able 
to port in any event. So, if Mr T redeemed the property an ERC would be payable and as 
there was no port, it remained due.
As regards the additional borrowing, it seems that Mr T failed RBSs internal credit score that 
led to a decline. Mr T applied just after he had sold his properties although these sales were 
to his company. Mr T had a good credit rating with the credit reference agencies. But Mr T 
still failed RBSs internal credit scoring system. The difficulty with challenging that is that the 
components of a lenders credit scoring system are commercially sensitive and confidential 
to the company. But a credit scoring system is an element as to how a lender assesses its 
risk and a lender is entitled to use such a system and assess the level of risk it wishes to 
accept and decline those where its internal credit score assesses that it wont accept that 
risk. In this case it resulted in a decline, but the application seems to have been fairly 
processed through its system and, so, I cant uphold that part of the complaint. As Mr T 
failed this application it seems that he no longer proceeded to buy another property with an 
RBS mortgage and therefore the question of porting the mortgage product and redeeming 
the ERC didnt arise.
The other issue is that Mr T says that he was mis-led about RBSs porting policy. Porting is 
about the transfer of a mortgage product from one mortgage to another usually when a 
property is sold, and the mortgage is redeemed, and a new mortgage is taken out on a new 
property.  I note that in his email to us of 12 July 2022 that Mr T says that he wanted to 
move the RBS mortgage onto another purchase I should emphasise that porting doesnt 
involve moving a mortgage over. It requires a new mortgage on a new property and, 
normally, a full mortgage application and then the mortgage product is moved over. 
Porting is usually done when both transactions complete at the same time.  But lenders may 
also facilitate non-simultaneous porting. RBS has a non-simultaneous porting policy. That 
requires the borrower to have an offer accepted on his intended purchase first before 
redeeming the mortgage on his existing property and then, having sold the old property had a period of four months to port his mortgage product across to the mortgage on his new 
property.
Mr T says that RBS misinformed him about this policy in a call in October 2020 about 
porting. It would be useful to hear this call to know what was said. The problem is there is no 
recording of the phone call available or a detailed contact note of what was discussed. Mr T 
says that he acted on his recollection of this conversation which was that he could port if he 
could transfer a mortgage product to another property if it was done within three months of 
the redemption of one of the mortgages. No mention was made, Mr T says, of being required 
to have a new application in place before the old mortgage was redeemed. 
Mr T says he acted on that basis and if I were to uphold this complaint that he was misled, 
that would mean that he should have been allowed to proceed on the basis that the 
information given to him in October was correct. Would this have made any difference? The 
application for further borrowing was refused and Mr T couldnt have pursued his plan to buy 
Property D and transfer a mortgage product in any event. Mr T did eventually get a 
remortgage on Property C with another lender but that took six months to do so and couldnt 
be arranged within the three-month period that Mr T understood that was available for 
porting or the four-month period that appears in RBSs porting policy. In any case Mr T 
would still have had to return to RBS to port and, having been refused the additional 
borrowing there was no guarantee that Mr T would have got a new mortgage from RBS. So, 
even accepting that Mr T may have got incorrect information in the phone call of October 
2020 and that he shouldnt be disadvantaged by that, it seems that he still wouldnt have 
been able to avoid the ERCs.  
Theres also the issue of whether Mr T was in fact told anything incorrect in that phone call in 
October 2020. Im not convinced that was the case. Mr T was recalling parts of a 
conversation that he had several months earlier. Without listening to the conversation, I cant 
definitively tell if Mr T was mis-led. But, from what Mr T says the adviser appears to have 
referred to the relevant aspects of the policy. The sequence of the conversation is important. 
Mr T recalls bits of it and I wouldnt expect him to recall the whole conversation several 
months later. But the whole conversation is significant and its difficult to come to a 
conclusion based on recollections some months later of snippets of a conversation. From the 
information provided, I cant conclusively say that the adviser mis-led Mr T.
Finally, I noted above that this was a complex set of transactions that Mr T embarked on 
from April 2021. The process didnt go as Mr T planned. Mr T feels that RBS is at fault 
because of the advice it gave him in a phone call in October 2020. I would expect RBS to 
respond to Mr T on specific questions he raised about its porting policy related to specific 
transactions, but it didnt hold itself as an adviser to Mr T on the sequencing of his 
transactions. Its unfortunate for Mr T that this sequence didnt go as he had planned but I 
dont consider that to be the fault of RBS. So, for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman