DRN-2877529
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined part 
of her claim for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 Mrs C said she noticed a small area of damp on a bedroom wall. She said 
that after two storms later that month she noticed that the damp had got a lot worse. So she 
reported this to her home insurance provider, Lloyds. 
Mrs C also got a local company to quote for the required external repair work. They 
produced an estimate for the cost of the repair work of just under £4,000 plus VAT.
In late March 2020, Lloyds appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage. After reviewing the 
inspection report, Lloyds partially declined the claim. They declined to cover the external 
damage to the chimney stack. But agreed to cover the internal damage to the bedroom.
Unhappy, Mrs C complained to Lloyds. In their June 2020 final response letter, they partially 
upheld her complaint. They agreed that the service Mrs C had received hadnt been as good 
as she couldve expected. They felt they couldve appointed their surveyors earlier to confirm 
the cause of the damage. So they arranged to pay her £75 compensation. But they 
confirmed that they felt theyd been right to decline to cover the damage to the chimney. 
They said the damage was due to a natural breakdown of the materials and not as a result 
of a one-off storm.
Mrs C didnt agree so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator initially 
upheld the complaint. She didnt feel that Lloyds had provided enough information to show 
that the claim wouldnt be covered under the storm peril. 
Lloyds disagreed with this view and provided further information. They said there was no 
visible storm damage to the chimney. And no mention of storm damage in Mrs Cs builders 
estimate for the repair work. 
Given the additional information, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She felt that 
Lloyds had now provided enough information to evidence that their decline of part of the 
claim was reasonable. So she didnt think Lloyds had treated Mrs C unfairly.
Mrs C didnt agree. She felt that a storm had caused the damage. So this complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. If it was then
insurance policies would be prohibitively expensive. Only damage caused by one of the
insured perils (or, events) listed in the policy  fire, theft, escape of water, storm etc.  is
covered. If a policyholder can show that the damage he or she is claiming for is caused by
one of the policy perils then the insurer must pay the claim unless the insurer can rely one of
the policy exclusions to defeat it. If the insurer wishes to rely on a policy exclusion it is its
responsibility to prove it can be successfully applied to defeat the claim.
Mrs C feels strongly that her chimney was damaged by storm Clara on 8 February 2020 and 
storm Denis on 15th February. But Lloyds didnt think that a storm had caused the damage. 
They said the chimney was damaged through normal wear and tear, which isnt covered 
under the policy.
As our investigator mentioned, when our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are
three questions to consider:
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer to all three of these questions is yes, then a claim should likely succeed.
However, if the answer to any of the questions is no, then its unlikely the claim would be
covered under the storm damage part of the policy.
For 1., theres no dispute that there was a storm in the area around the time of the
loss. So I wont consider this further.
For 2., the surveyor felt that the leak was caused by the natural breakdown of materials. 
Their report noted: there is some deterioration to the flaunching to the chimney which may 
be an area of ingress. There are no displaced tiles or render. The contractor who provided 
the estimate for external repair work for Mrs C gave her two options: remove the chimney 
stack or take it down and rebuild it. But their estimate didnt refer to storm damage. And the 
photos of the roof and chimney dont show other evidence of storm damage. So Lloyds 
concluded that the external damage wasnt consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
Looking at the photos provided by the surveyor, Lloyds said: there is no storm damage to 
the chimney, nothing has been disturbed by the wind and the caps are still in place. Water 
has entered the chimney due to issues caused by everyday weathering rather than entering 
through damage caused by a one-off storm.
Mrs C said that the dampness she noticed in the bedroom wall in early February 2020 got 
considerably worse after the two big storms she experienced later that month. So she felt 
that although there may be some ageing of the chimney, shed always had it maintained and 
didnt agree that it was the main cause of the damage.
Ive seen the photos and I agree with Lloyds that theres no visible storm damage to the 
chimney or the roof. Therefore, although I acknowledge what Mrs C has said about the 
damp getting worse after the storms, I cant conclude that Lloyds acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined her claim for external damage. Ive not seen enough 
evidence that a storm caused the damage to the chimney.  
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the damage wasnt consistent with the 
damage a storm typically causes. And Im not persuaded that Mrs C has shown that the 
damage to the chimney was caused by a storm, or any other policy peril. The damage 
appears to have been caused by wear and tear to the chimney, which isnt covered under Mrs Cs policy. So I dont consider that Lloyds did anything wrong when they declined to 
cover the cost of the chimney repairs.
I know this decision will disappoint Mrs C. But I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman