DRN-3774999
The complaint
Miss O is complaining that Clydesdale Bank Plc (t/a Virgin Money) hasnt refunded an 
amount she paid on her Virgin credit card to rent a villa.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss O paid to rent a villa on a Spanish island through an online property rental  
company  who I shall refer to as A  to visit in May 2020. She paid £1,157.49 to rent the 
property and she paid for it on her Virgin credit card. She also bought flights to and from the 
island and she bought and paid for these separately. 
Unfortunately, due to the impact of Covid-19, her flights were cancelled. She later contacted
A to request a refund of the amount she paid, but was unsuccessful. So she contacted Virgin 
to request a refund. Virgin processed a chargeback claim against A, but A defended the 
claim as it said Miss O didnt ask for a refund until after the booking was due to take place. 
And it said she wasnt entitled to a refund in these circumstances.
Following this, Virgin wrote to Miss O to say it was unable to pursue the chargeback claim 
any further. It also said, she wasnt able to raise a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (Section 75) because it said A was only acting as an agent for the rental 
provider. Miss O didnt think this was fair so referred her complaint to this Service.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
Miss O is complaining about the way Virgin handled a dispute over a payment she made to 
A for a holiday rental. Where a consumer raises a dispute about a transaction made on a 
credit card, the card provider can consider the dispute under two guises  chargeback and 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (Section 75). I would expect the card provider to 
consider both avenues. Ill consider both avenues separately. 
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which a bank or credit card provider looks to resolve a 
settlement between a consumer and a merchant under the relevant card scheme. Initially the 
card provider will temporarily refund the payment back onto the card account and will raise a 
dispute with the merchant. The merchant is then required to respond within a prescribed 
period of time with any further information it wishes to provide and set out why it thinks the 
chargeback shouldnt go through. If the chargeback is defended, then the temporary refund 
is returned to the merchant. The rules under which the chargeback can be pursued are strict 
and are set out by the relevant card scheme.
In this case, there are two potential chargeback avenues Virgin could have looked to pursue 
a chargeback  credit not processed or services not provided. In this case, Virgin 
presented the claim twice  i.e. took it to what is known as pre-arbitration. A defended the 
chargeback on the basis that Miss O didnt contact it until after the booking was meant to go 
ahead. So it didnt think there was a right to a refund. But I havent seen anything to show 
that it actually thought about whether the supplier could or did make the property available to 
Miss O to rent at the time.
I think its important to note that, due to local lockdown rules owing to Covid-19, I understand 
that at the time of the booking hotels and small businesses were still required to be closed. 
So I dont believe the supplier was able to provide the service it was contractually required to 
provide. I think Virgin should have understood this and should have presented this as a 
reason for the chargeback to be successful. I think, had it done so, there was reasonable 
prospects of the chargeback succeeding.
Ultimately, I think, had Virgin robustly pursued the chargeback claim to the full extent, I think  
it would have been successful. And Im satisfied Miss O has lost out as a result.
Section 75
While, Im satisfied Miss O has lost out because of Virgins handling of her chargeback 
claim, Ive also thought about whether it could have done more in its handling of her 
Section 75 claim. I dont think it could have done. 
Miss O paid for the holiday rental on her Virgin Credit card. Section 75 sets out that in 
certain circumstances, as the finance provider, Virgin is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
As I said above, in order for Section 75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be 
satisfied  one of which is establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement (DCS) between 
the parties. In essence, the key here is that its the debtor who is entitled to make a claim 
against the creditor, and their claim against the creditor is the same as their claim against 
the supplier.
But in this case, the hotel rental wasnt provided by A but was provided by a third party. 
Virgin doesnt have a financial arrangement with the third party as its payment contract is 
with A. So, while for the reasons I set out above, Miss O may have a contractual claim 
against the supplier of the contract, Virgin cant be held jointly liable for a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier.
I think Miss O could hold Virgin responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation of 
the contract by A. But As responsibility was only to administrator of the contract. Ultimately 
Miss O is unhappy that the supplier hasnt given a refund. And I dont think A is liable for 
that.
Summary
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Miss O has unfairly lost out in this case. Had it 
robustly pursued the chargeback claim to the full extent, I think the temporary credit it 
provided in July 2020 would have become permanent. So I intend to say Virgin should 
reconstruct the credit card as if the temporary refund it gave on 24 July 2020 wasnt 
reversed. I also intend to say it should refund Miss O for any time shes been out of pocket 
due to the credit being reversed and pay 8% simple interest (less tax if appropriately 
deducted) on this from the time shes out of pocket until she gets it back.
Miss O responded to accept my provisional decision. Virgin didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything further to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Clydesdale Bank Plc to reconstruct the credit card as if the temporary refund it gave 
on 24 July 2020 wasnt reversed. It should refund Miss O for any time shes been out of 
pocket due to the credit being reversed and pay 8% simple interest on this from the time 
shes out of pocket until she gets it back. If Clydesdale thinks that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss O how much 
its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman