DRN-4193731
The complaint
Miss I complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt advise her sufficiently about the 
long-term impact on her credit file when it agreed to provided her with a payment break 
when she was unemployed
What happened
Miss I has a mortgage with NatWest. Miss I lost her job in March 2022 and contacted 
NatWest in July to discuss a payment break as her savings were running out. NatWest 
advised her that she had the option of a three-month break from making her contractual 
monthly payments (CMP), and this would show on her credit file. Miss I says that the bank 
told her that her credit file would only be affected by the three months of the arrangement, so 
she proceeded with it. Miss I found new employment in October 2022, and she contacted the 
bank to update them at which point she learned that that her credit file would be affected 
beyond the initial three months and would be affected until the arrears were cleared which 
could be a long period if she had an extended repayment plan. NatWest didnt uphold this 
complaint as it felt that its adviser had given Miss I fair warning of the impact on her credit 
file.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that the 
NatWest adviser had alerted Miss I to the impact that the missed payments would have on 
her credit file. Miss I disagrees saying in summary that it wasnt reasonable to expect her to 
understand that her credit file would continue to be impacted once her payments 
recommenced in November 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss I says that had she been made fully aware of the long-term impact on her credit file of 
the three-month payment break that she wouldnt have agreed to it and borrowed money 
from her family. Miss I feels very stressed by this impact and when applying for car finance 
for a car necessary for her work was concerned that this would be refused, and she might 
lose her job. 
NatWest should deal sympathetically with a customer in financial difficulties. I listened to the 
phone call in July that Miss I had with two advisers from NatWest from their collections and 
forbearance teams and my view was that her application for a payment break was done 
efficiently and sympathetically. At that stage Miss I had lost her job a few months previously, 
was on Universal credit with, as she said, dwindling savings and had no immediate job 
offers, which would have been very dispiriting. It was important to her to have this breathing 
space so that she didnt have the pressure of monthly payments facing her for the next few 
months and that was achieved. 
I formed the view that Miss I knew that after the three-month period there would be arrears 
on the account and that she would be contacting NatWest about a repayment plan. She was 
also aware that for her credit file  because she asked about this  whilst the next three 
months would show that no CMP was being made - that it would also show that there was 
an arrangement on the account. I also noted that Miss I didnt mention to the advisers that 
she could potentially have got parental help to pay the mortgage.
The issue here is the impact on Miss Is credit file of all this. Miss I says she was made 
aware of how the payment break would appear, but she says that NatWest did not make her 
aware of the longer-term impact. NatWest provides information to a number of well-known 
Credit Reference Agencies on the performance of a customers account who record that 
information and indeed provide credit scores.  The NatWest advisers both told Miss I that the 
payment break would have a negative impact on her credit file and the second adviser 
responded to some questions from Miss I about how the missed payments and arrangement 
would appear on it. Neither was given the opportunity to respond to what the long-term 
effects on her credit file would be  because they werent asked it and whether it was better 
for her credit file if Miss I got financial assistance for her parents  because Miss I didnt 
indicate that this might be available.
I do understand Miss Is concern that the payment holiday isnt the end of the matter and that 
she will have to deal with the effect on her credit file into the future. But I didnt hear the 
advisers minimise the impact on her credit file. I believe they should fairly warn the customer 
of a negative impact and respond to any questions as far as they can. Both advisers did that. 
Im also mindful that NatWest isnt a credit reference agency, and the advisers arent there 
as experts on how to protect and perfect a credit file. In this case their role was to decide 
what assistance they can give Miss I in her financial difficulties and incidentally to warn her 
that this forbearance by NatWest will have an impact on her credit file.
I consider that the NatWest advisers provided sufficient information to Miss I about the 
impact on her credit file. Miss I knew that there would be arrears at the end on the 
arrangement and that the arrangement would have a negative impact on her credit file. I 
dont consider that the advisers were required to go further. So, I cant fairly say that 
NatWest has done anything wrong, and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman