DRN-4267481
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Bastion Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under his bicycle insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Bastion includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S had an insurance policy with Bastion and looked to make a claim under the policy after 
his bike was stolen from outside a public house. But when Bastion looked into the claim it 
turned it down. This was for a number of reasons including the fact Mr S hadnt secured his 
bike properly to a secure immovable object and with a Sold Secure approved bike lock as 
defined in the policy. And the fact that Mr S had been drinking at the time of leaving his bike 
which invalidated cover. As Mr S wasnt happy about this he complained to Bastion who 
maintained its position.
Unhappy with Bastions response, Mr S approached this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
was satisfied the exclusion relating to drinking alcohol didnt apply she didnt think Mr S 
could show that he had an approved lock under the policy. Mr S had provided some details 
in relation to the lock he used at the time of the theft, but it wasnt on Bastions approved lock 
list. So she didnt think Bastion had acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and despite my natural sympathy for the position Mr S has found himself in 
after the theft of his bike, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Although I agree with our investigator that there isnt sufficient evidence to say Mr S was 
either intoxicated or that this was material to the circumstances surrounding the theft of his 
bike, but I dont think Bastion has acted unfairly in declining his claim. I say this as it is clear 
from the policy documentation Mr S wouldnt be covered unless his bike was secured to an 
immovable object and was secured by A nominated lock from the appropriate Sold Secure 
category of Silver or above.. And Mr S hasnt provided evidence to show that his bike was 
secured in line with this at the time of the theft. 
Mr S said he secured his bike next to the pub he was visiting, but he hasnt outlined that his 
bike was secured to an immovable object. And he hasnt provided any real detail to the 
contrary when Bastion has asked about this. But what is clear is that Mr S hasnt provided 
evidence his bike was secured by a Sold Secure approved lock which was a requirement of 
the policy. I know Mr S has provided some evidence that his bike was secured by providing 
a picture of the keys he used for his lock. However, he has clearly explained which lock he 
used and provided details from the sellers website, but this isnt on the Sold Secure list (our 
investigator sent Mr S a link to the Sold Secure list separately). 
The policy is clear theft is only covered when The Bicycle has been locked to an immovable 
object by an approved lock. And Approved lock is further defined as A nominated lock from 
the appropriate Sold Secure category of Silver or above standard. Unfortunately, Mr S lock 
isnt listed on the Sold Secure locks list unlike many other locks and an insurer is entitled to 
impose such conditions. They impose them as they want to ensure their customers take 
reasonable steps to ensure their bike is secure and protected given the clear risk of theft. 
And Im satisfied the requirement was clearly laid out in the policy documentation so I cant 
say Bastion has acted unreasonably here. 
Given all of this, I cant say that Bastion has acted unfairly, and I wont be asking it to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman