DRN-2263584
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the success fee charged by Quickly Finance Limited, trading as Fast 
Track Reclaim (FTR), following successful payment protection insurance (PPI) claims. 
What happened
FTR say following an online enquiry made by Mrs T through their website in August 2019, 
they received a signed authority form to pursue potential PPI mis-sale claims on Mrs Ts 
behalf against lender B. Mrs T provided some details on 21 August 2019, and later visited 
FTRs website to complete her application on 23 August 2019. 
The letter of authority for lender B recorded Mrs Ts personal details, including her home 
address and date of birth. An electronic signature was provided next to the caption By 
signing this Letter of Authority you agree to the Terms and Conditions overleaf.
The terms and conditions explained that in the event of a successful claim, FTR would 
charge a contingency fee representing no more than 24% inc. VAT in respect of any 
redress/compensation/goodwill payment recovered on your behalf .The terms and 
conditions also explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You 
authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
In December 2019, FTR wrote to Mrs T saying IMPORTANT: You HAVE paid PPI and 
action is needed to receive your refund. Enclosed with this letter was a PPI questionnaire, 
and instructions on how to return this information to FTR. Mrs T didnt respond to this. 
In January 2020, lender B agreed to pay compensation. FTR sent their invoices to Mrs T for 
the successful claims. Mrs T complained to FTR saying that the claims to lender B had been 
made fraudulently, without her consent. 
FTR said theyd acted fairly by making the claims using the signed letter of authority theyd 
received, and in line with the terms and conditions agreed to. Because of this, they didnt 
offer any compensation in settlement of Mrs Ts complaint. 
Mrs T didnt agree with FTRs response, saying that she hadnt signed any documents for 
FTR, and that theyd acted without her consent. She referred her complaint to the Claims 
Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that FTR had acted unreasonably in making the claims, as the online 
web journey indicated that Mrs T was only consenting to a free PPI check. FTR disagreed 
with the investigators findings, saying that the terms and conditions made it clear that 
authority extended to a claims service once PPI had been identified
I issued my provisional decision on 9 September 2020 saying that I dont uphold this 
complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I understand that this has been an 
upsetting time for Mrs T. Having reviewed the case, Im currently minded not to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs T says she never instructed FTR to act for her, and that FTR acted fraudulently in 
making the claims. She says the signature on the letter of authority provided by FTR is not 
hers. 
At the time of receiving Mrs Ts initial enquiry on 21 August 2019, FTR were provided with 
Mrs Ts personal details, including her email address, date of birth, and mobile number. 
These details match the information Mrs T has provided to this service, so Im satisfied they 
belong to Mrs T. 
FTR have provided copies of emails sent to Mrs T on 22 and 23 August 2019. The emails 
reminded Mrs T that her application was incomplete, and asked her to complete her details 
by clicking on an icon that linked directly to FTRs website. FTR have provided a copy of a 
signed letter of authority dated 23 August 2019 received by them on the same date. Given 
the actions Mrs T was required to take before FTR could act for her, on balance, I think its 
more likely than not that it was Mrs T that provided her information to FTR, and signed the 
letter of authority. 
The investigator found that the online journey placed emphasis on FTRs service being a 
Free PPI Check only. Because of this, Mrs T shouldve been asked to provide additional 
consent once PPI was confirmed by lender B. Having looked at the screenshots relied on, it 
shows the Time left to make a PPI Claim- 310 days. Mrs T signed up to FTRs service on 
23 August 2019. As the PPI deadline was 31 August 2019, these screenshots were unlikely 
to have been the version that applied at the time Mrs T accessed FTRs website.  
FTR have since confirmed, and provided to this service, screenshots of what wouldve been 
applicable for their website from July 2019 onwards. These screenshots show that there was 
a caption which said Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will 
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our Fee of 24% 
inclusive of VAT, will be payable on all successful Claim(s) as per the Terms of 
Engagement. Click here to view our terms and conditions. This evidence was not provided 
during the initial investigation. 
Because of the different versions of the online journey provided by FTR, Ive considered the 
overall evidence and circumstances when deciding on a fair outcome. 
The investigator found that the online journey was misleading. But FTR have since provided 
new evidence showing what wouldve likely applied at the time Mrs T instructed them. Mrs 
Ts recollections of the sales process dont reflect any of the online journeys provided by 
FTR, as she strongly rejects instructing FTR in the first place. But Im satisfied that an 
instruction to FTR was provided in August 2019 when the letter of authority was signed. 
Mrs T was sent two emails inviting her to instruct FTR to complete a free PPI check on her 
behalf. Although Mrs T strongly disputes signing anything, for the reasons already explained, 
I am persuaded that she did visit FTRs website, and sign the letter of authority on 23 August 
2019. While I cant be certain what wording was used on FTRs website to explain the free 
PPI check, it is evident that the terms and conditions explained the remit of FTRs service. 
The terms and conditions explained Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends 
and You authorise FTR to continue to provide You with the Claims Services. Mrs T was told by FTR that PPI had been found. She was asked to return documentation to FTR in support 
of her claims. Mrs T says she chose not to do this because she didnt want FTR acting for 
her. But I dont think Mrs Ts disengagement from the process makes it reasonable for me to 
say that FTR acted unfairly by continuing with the claims against lender B.
Having considered the lack of clarity in the online journey, Ive also given consideration to 
Mrs T receiving notice of FTR acting for her when they contacted her in December 2019. 
Mrs T didnt express any concerns with FTRs involvement at that time. So I think its 
reasonable that FTR continued to represent Mrs T as instructed by the letter of authority 
signed for lender B. 
The offer from lender B was made after Mrs T had been told that FTR had found PPI. FTR 
were made aware of the offer directly from lender B. So I dont think it would be fair to say 
that there wasnt an agreement between Mrs T and FTR at the time lender B agreed to offer 
compensation. In line with the terms and conditions agreed to, FTR sent Mrs T their success 
fee invoices, which they were entitled to do.  
Its likely that Mrs T didnt respond to contact from FTR after completing the letter of authority 
in August 2019. But I cant say that the agreement with FTR had been cancelled, and was 
no longer effective because Mrs T chose not to engage. I can appreciate it mustve been 
upsetting for Mrs T to receive invoices, and be asked to pay FTRs success fees, when she 
feels strongly that she didnt instruct FTR to make any claims.  
But the evidence shows that Mrs T did provide details to FTR in August 2019, only days 
away from the PPI deadline for making a claim. FTR sent the claims to lender B, which led to 
successful outcomes. Mrs T didnt express any concerns with FTRs involvement with any of 
her claims until after lender B agreed to award compensation. So its fair to say that the 
contract with FTR was valid at the time lender B made offers of compensation. Because of 
this, I think its fair that FTR charge their success fee in line with their terms and conditions 
for the compensation amounts paid by lender B. 
Responses
Mrs T didnt agree with my provisional decision. Her comments include:
1- i was sent a letter stating a FREE PPI CHECK , i sent the letter back in the post , no 
instruction , FTR sent another letter asking for my signature to proceed i shredded 
the letter and thought no more of it
2- after receiving the letter i said it was not my signature and FTR said i had done it on 
line with a touch screen computer , I explained that i did not have a touch screen 
and that i would not be knowledgeable enough to do that
3- did nothing on line or that i did not sign anything
FTR accepted my provisional decision and provided no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs T says she sent a letter back in the post, and that was the only contact she made with 
FTR. She says she wouldnt have completed any details online. I appreciate the outcome of 
my provisional decision mustve caused upset to Mrs T, as she feels strongly that she didnt 
visit FTRs website to provide any details. When determining what outcome feels fair in the circumstances, its important that I consider both what Mrs T has explained, and what the 
documentary evidence shows. 
The email address provided by Mrs T to this service, matches the information FTR has 
provided of the email address they held for Mrs T. This is the email address FTR 
corresponded with. Theres no evidence that FTR were sending mailshots for a PPI checking 
service in August 2019. The evidence indicates that the service was based online only. And 
the evidence supports that FTR received instructions through completion of an online form 
from Mrs T. 
When reaching a decision thats fair and reasonable, we look at whats likely to have 
happened, on balance. I cant say with any certainty that Mrs T did go online, and provide 
her signature to FTR to represent her. But on balance, I think its more likely than not that 
she did. FTR used this authority to make the claim against lender B, and the outcome was 
successful because of the work they did. 
Mrs T received notification in December 2019 that FTR were acting for her, but I cant see 
that she took any active steps to cancel her agreement. Mrs T says she shredded the letter 
and thought no more of it. But I dont think it would be reasonable for me to say that FTRs 
success fee should be waived because of this. FTR had no knowledge of Mrs T not wanting 
to continue with their service, so its fair that they continued to deal with the claim, and 
charged their success fee on the compensation awarded by lender B.
I appreciate Mrs T is disappointed by these findings, but having considered her additional 
comments, they dont change my findings or the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman