DRN-3817752
The complaint
Mr C complains about the lack of support Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) 
offered during the pandemic regarding his overdraft. He says it acted unfairly by continuing 
to apply charges to his account when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr C complained to Halifax regarding the fees applied to his overdraft and lack of support 
during the pandemic. 
Halifax says it offered support by stopping the daily overdraft interest for a few months as 
well as refunding charges. It says it couldnt do more without going through Mr Cs income 
and expenditure which Mr C didnt wish to do.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and thought that Halifax shouldve 
realised that Mr C was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from August 2020 because by this point Halifax had already contacted Mr C a few 
times asking him get in touch about his overdraft and that it was unlikely Mr C was able to 
maintain a credit balance for an extended period of time. 
Halifax disagreed  it says there was nothing on the account which would have led it to 
believe the overdraft was unmanageable. The fees applied were modest in keeping with a 
£500 overdraft and it believes Mr C couldve re-paid the balance if he needed to. Overall, it 
believes Mr Cs account activity suggests poor account management rather than financial 
difficulties. 
I issued my provisional decision on 19 October 2022, a copy extract of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Cs complaint in 
regards to the lack of support received during the pandemic and charges applied to his 
overdraft. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both Mr C and Halifax have confirmed receipt but neither party have given any 
further new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that: 
Ive seen that Mr C in some of his correspondence is complaining about the proportionality 
of the charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying 
that I havent considered whether the various amounts Halifax charged over the years were 
fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifax various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr C if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Cs account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr C was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr C fairly and 
reasonably. Mr C says Halifax failed to support him through the pandemic. I can see from 
Halifaxs internal contact notes that Mr C contacted Halifax on a number of occasions 
between 2019 and 2022 - usually following requests from Halifax to get in touch to discuss 
his finances. 
On each occasion Halifax offered support to Mr C by refunding fees, putting temporary holds 
on overdraft interest charges and offering to set up a repayment plan despite Mr C 
confirming the majority of the time he was up to date with his bills. On each occasion Mr C 
refused to set up a payment plan as he didnt want his credit report impacted. Halifax made 
Mr C aware that any freezes on charges were temporary and that he would need to get in 
contact with it if his situation didnt improve. 
So based on the contact Mr C had with Halifax I dont think I can say it treated Mr C unfairly 
 it offered support in the form of refunds and interest freezes and couldnt do anything more 
without going through Mr Cs income and expenditure which he refused to do.
And having looked at Mr Cs statements over the years I dont think there was anything in 
these that ought to have alerted Halifax to the fact Mr C was in financial difficulty and that it 
should step in and offer further support either. Mr C had an overdraft with what I consider a 
modest limit of £250 raising to £500 in August 2020. And although Mr C used his overdraft, 
this in itself isnt a clear indication of financial difficulty. 
Indeed, most the time I think Mr Cs overdraft was being managed. And while Im not 
seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr Cs expenditure, nonetheless I can 
see from the statements that from around September 2016 the vast majority of transactions 
were discretionary and often to gambling sites. Priority bills werent being paid out of this 
account and it clearly wasnt Mr Cs main account. 
There were regular cash transfers into the account and out of the account into other 
accounts held by Mr C. While each individual transaction wasnt enough to pay off this 
overdraft in full, it was certainly enough to bring it down and pay it off within a reasonable 
time should he have chosen to do so. 
I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr C wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in on the statements in themselves which ought to have alerted Halifax to 
any potential financial difficulty. So overall I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr C unfairly or 
unreasonably.
And in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Cs account was being used. 
I understand that Mr C would like a refund of all fees charged on the account but Halifax 
have already refunded fees and put a stop on charges on occasions and with Mr C not having been able to provide details of his income and expenditure I dont think at this stage it 
should be required to do anything more. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mr C unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. I appreciate 
that this will be very disappointing for Mr C. But I hope he understands the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Mr C has responded and I understand his disappointment at the change in outcome, but he 
hasnt provided me with any further evidence or arguments that I havent considered before. 
And this being the case I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman