DRN-2033516
The complaint
Mr T complains that TTR PT Limited, trading as The Training Room, wont end the fixed sum 
loan agreement that he entered into to pay for a training course.
What happened
Mr T entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with The Training Room in November 2018 to 
pay for a web development e-learning training course. He stopped taking the course in April 
2019 and stopped making the loan repayments but hes being pursued for payment. He 
complained to The Training Room and it responded in detail to describe the use that hed 
had from the course and said that, as hed received the services, the monthly repayment 
would need to be maintained as detailed in his loan agreement.
Mr T wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. He says that the sales 
representative wasnt fully honest when describing the course, there must be a refund policy 
and its not fair having to pay for something that he doesn't benefit from. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She couldnt say that there had been 
a breach of contract or that The Training Room acted unfairly. She was satisfied that 
sufficient information was provided to Mr T regarding the complaint points that hed raised. 
She said that the agreement outlines the service that was provided to Mr T and could see 
that he had access to the training course material which he accessed up until April 2019.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that it makes 
no sense for him to pay £3,000 and get nothing. He says that he was aware of the two week 
cancellation policy but it should be for a much longer term, like six months, as two weeks 
isnt enough time to make a judgement about continuing or cancelling the course.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T entered into the fixed sum loan agreement and a training service agreement in 
November 2018 for a web development e-learning course  he also signed an 
affordability statement and a student contract;
the price of the course was £3,095 and the loan was for £2,845 which he agreed to 
repay by 36 monthly payments of £79.03  the loan was interest free;
the training service agreement said that he had the right to cancel the course within 
14 days (and that in all other circumstances he would remain liable for the full course 
fee) and the loan agreement said that he could withdraw from the loan within 14 days 
 but Ive seen no evidence to show that he cancelled the training service agreement 
or withdrew from the loan agreement within those periods;
Mr T had accepted the terms set out in those agreements, the right to withdraw from 
the loan agreement is a legal requirement and theres no requirement for The 
Training Room to provide customers with a longer time in which to withdraw from an 
agreement;
Mr T was provided with information about the course and Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that that information was incorrect, misleading or 
dishonest  so I dont consider that the course was mis-sold or misrepresented to 
him;
Mr T started the course but decided in April 2019 that he wasnt going to be able to 
complete it, but the remainder of the course was available to him, and I consider that 
it was his choice not to complete the course;
he stopped making the loan payments  but hed agreed to repay the full amount of 
the loan, he hadnt withdrawn from the loan agreement and I dont consider that he 
was entitled to stop making the loan repayments;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres been a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by The Training Room and I consider that it has 
responded to Mr Ts complaint fairly and reasonably; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
The Training Room to end the fixed sum loan agreement, to refund to Mr T any of the 
loan repayments that hes made, to pay him any other compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr T contacts The Training Room to try to agree an affordable repayment 
arrangement for the amount that he owes to it. If that doesnt happen, I consider it to be 
likely that it will take further action to recover that amount from him, to the extent that its 
legally entitled to do so. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman