DRN-4061533
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Bank of Scotland plcs, trading as Halifax, standard of service which
led to a financial loss when a transaction was declined.
What happened
Your I issued my provisional decision on 22 February 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 22 March 2023. But unless the
information changes my mind; my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mrs M complains about Bank of Scotland plcs, trading as Halifax, standard of service which
led to a financial loss when a transaction was declined.
What happened
Background
On 10 July 2022, Mrs Ms husband (Mr M), who is a supplementary cardholder, tried to
process an on-line payment for accommodation. However, there was an issue with the
transaction and when Mrs M called Halifax, she said the information on the screen said their
telephone numbers needed updating.
The Halifax representative said the issue was because the merchant hadnt submitted the
transaction for approval using the correct fraud prevention measures. However, due to the
screen information, there was a dispute about whether it was the merchant or Halifax
declining the transaction because of the card lacking a telephone number. And Mrs M and
Mr M were convinced it was the latter.
The representative confirmed Mr Ms card didnt have a telephone number listed and he said
he couldnt add this as Mrs M didnt have the right level of security. He gave Mrs M advice
on how she could add this  by visiting a branch or via telephone once a banking password
was received within 5 days.
As the representative couldnt override the transaction and, as Mrs M and Mr M didnt want
to lose the booking, he suggested they contact the merchant and use another payment
method. Mrs M and Mr M were dissatisfied that they couldnt complete the transaction and
with the reason given. So, whilst on the call, they submitted a complaint.
Regarding Mr Ms telephone number not being updated and Mrs M not having a telephone
banking password to modify it, Mrs M couldnt understand why Halifax hadnt been proactive
and contacted them before a problem arose.
On 22 July 2022, Halifax responded to the complaint. Halifax declined the complaint and
said they hadnt made an error. They explained the payment was unsuccessful because they
couldnt complete approval using the correct fraud prevention measures in line with new
Strong Customer Authentication regulations.
Regarding Mrs M not being able to update the phone number for Mr Ms additional card they
confirmed Mrs M didnt have the right level of security to make the change. And they
explained this was a requirement to prevent potential fraud.
Mrs M was dissatisfied with this response and says she contacted Halifax.
Complaint
On 4 August 2022, Mr M used his card to book car hire abroad but this was declined. Mrs M
says this was because a telephone number wasnt linked to his card, and she made
unsuccessful attempts to add this on-line and by telephone. Mrs M says that as a result she
couldnt take advantage of a special offer price and the car hire was £80 more expensive.
Mrs M complained to Halifax and requested compensation and an apology.
Halifax decided to add this to the 10 July 2022 complaint file and didnt send a response.
This is because they viewed it as being about the same issues that they had already
responded to.
Mrs M complained to our service however our investigator assessed her complaint and
couldnt see Halifax needed to do more.
As Mrs M remains dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first explain that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues that relate directly to Halifaxs investigation and resolution process and
procedure, do not come under my powers to consider. Also, as we arent the regulator of the
financial services industry, this service cant instruct a business to alter its procedures,
processes or systems.
I currently have limited information on Mrs Ms complaint. This is because:
Halifax didnt issue a complaint response to Mrs M and appear not to have completed an 
investigation. Halifax have explained this is because they viewed it as the same issue for
which they had already issued a written response. And, from reviewing current file notes,
including Mrs Ms brief summary, I can understand this approach. This is because
Halifax believed the 4 August 2022 transaction was declined as the correct fraud
prevention measures werent completed, which is what they had previously explained in
their complaint response letter dated 22 July 2022.
Mrs M didnt respond to my clarification questions or request for further information to
establish her financial loss here.
However, whilst I can understand Halifaxs approach here, I couldnt see that they addressed
the standard of service issues Mrs M raised on 10 July 2022 or 4 August 2022 complaints.
Based on the information currently on file, my understanding of Mrs Ms service standard
complaints is theyre about Halifaxs communications and system.Regarding communications, Mrs M felt inconvenienced on 10 July 2022 and part of her
complaint was about why Halifax hadnt been proactive and, in advance of the issue,
explained why their system didnt have a telephone number listed for the supplementary
cardholder. Also, as this couldnt be added without a telephone banking password, Mrs M
wanted to know why this also hadnt been provided to her in advance.
Regarding systems, having obtained a password, Mrs M was dissatisfied that on 4 August
2022 she couldnt update Mr Ms telephone number on Halifaxs on-line system when she
was led to believe she could. Also, although Halifaxs final response letter says:
We couldnt complete approval using the correct fraud prevention measures in line with the
new Strong Customer Authentication
it doesnt give any detail. So, its unclear whether its due to the merchant or the
supplementary card not having a telephone number record. And Mrs M believes it to be the
latter.
So, considering these issues, I reviewed the file and asked Halifax for some information.
Halifaxs explanation for not being proactive over incomplete contact information and high-
level security passwords was:
We are unable to actively contact every customer who may have incorrect or incomplete
security details.
and considering their volumes I found this reasonable.
Regarding Mrs Ms failed attempt to add Mr Ms contact details, unfortunately I currently
have insufficient information from either party to determine why this didnt work. However, I
did consider this issue to be important. This is because I think its more likely than not that
the lack of a telephone number for the supplementary cardholder contributed to the 4 August
transaction being declined. I say this because of Mrs M and Mr Ms description on 10 July
2022 and Halifax stating its possible the decline was due to a combination of a merchant
decline for security reasons and the supplementary cardholder telephone number being
absent.
Although it appears to be inconclusive, I cant see that Halifax informed Mrs M that the
absent telephone number couldve possibly contributed to the issue. However, Mrs M
believed this to be an issue several weeks before the 4 August 2022. So, I wouldve
expected this to have been amended and confirmed before the card was required for an
important transaction. Then, it wouldve been unlikely that Mrs M wouldve needed to
urgently use the on-line system, and if she did, there wouldve been time for Halifax to
provide support and / or assistance.
So, considering all the above, whilst I understand Mrs Ms frustrations here, Im not
upholding this complaint.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision not to uphold this complaint.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 22 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
I received a response from both parties.Halifax said they had nothing further to add.
Mrs M requested clarification of the questions that I said she hadnt answered, and this was 
subsequently provided. Mrs M confirmed she didnt have telephone banking and hadnt 
received a final response letter from Halifax. She also specified the financial loss and said 
the following:
The issue which is pivotal here and has not been addressed, is that the card was declined 
because the Halifax system removed the previous telephone number linked to the card 
(which had been used previously for transactions) and there was no way to add a telephone 
number to my husbands card, other than visiting a branch. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding Mrs Ms belief that her card was declined because Halifaxs system removed the 
previous telephone number linked to the card, for the reasons stated in my provisional 
decision, I think its inconclusive that the lack of a telephone number caused the issue here. 
Also, Im unable to confirm that the telephone number was originally added and removed. 
Whilst I think it more likely than not that the lack of a telephone number did contribute to the 
transaction being declined, there is evidence that Mrs M had an opportunity to add a 
telephone number and confirm its set up several weeks before the failed transaction. In 
addition, Mrs M suspected the lack of a telephone number was an issue and, as an 
important transaction was planned, I wouldve expected her to have looked to resolve the 
issue in advance. 
I think Halifaxs explanation for not being proactive over incomplete contact information and 
high-level security passwords in order to amend information over the phone was reasonable. 
Also, as mentioned in my provisional decision, complaint handling by a business isnt a 
regulated activity. 
So, having considered everything again, my decision remains that Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above my final decision isnt to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman