DRN-2861362
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy with Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds (Advantage) handling of a
windscreen claim he made under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr N made a claim for a smashed windscreen to Advantage, his car
insurance provider. The claim was accepted and Advantages supplier were appointed to
arrange a replacement windscreen.
The supplier cancelled and didnt turn up to a number of appointments. During this time,
Mr N was in contact with Advantage to make them aware, and also suggested other options
to progress his claim.
Ultimately the windscreen was replaced in February 2021, four months after the claim was
first made. Advantage gave Mr N £75 compensation. They also gave £85 earlier in the claim
to cover the excess, but this wasnt actually charged by the supplier.
Mr N asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr N should be given further compensation. She said Advantage
had given Mr N £75 compensation, along with £85 toward the windscreen excess which
wasnt eventually charged by the supplier. But given the service received and time taken,
she said that this should be rounded up by £90 to take the total to be paid to Mr N to £250.
Mr N accepted this but Advantage didnt agree. They said hes already benefitted from the
equivalent of £245 when they waived the excess and paid him £160.
As an agreement couldnt be reached an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
I reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but I wanted to clarify what I 
thought Advantage needed to do to put things right. So I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to 
comment on my findings, before I reach my final decision.
Its not in dispute that the handling of Mr Ns claim wasnt in line with his reasonable
expectations. It took four months from the windscreen claim being reported to being
resolved. Advantage paid Mr N £75 compensation. It also gave him £85 to cover his
windscreen replacement excess, which later wasnt charge by the supplier. So Mr N
received a payment of £160 as he didnt have to pass the £85 on to the supplier.
There has been some disagreement between Advantage and our investigator about 
the amount Mr Ns received the equivalent of or benefitted from. In my view, hes 
actually received £160 as a payment as he didnt have to pass on the £85 to the 
windscreen supplier. But hes received the equivalent benefit of £245 as the excess 
then wasnt charged.
Mr N shouldve paid £85 for his windscreen excess to be replaced in line with the 
policy terms. But hes not had to do that, and its been replaced without charge. And 
in addition to that, hes received £160 and not had to pass anything on. So hes 
received the equivalent benefit of £245 already, albeit only £160 as physical money.
But regardless of receiving the equivalent benefit of £245, I still agree with our 
investigator that the amount Mr N should receive as an actual compensation 
monetary payment should be increased by £90 to take the total to £250.
Its clear, and not disputed, that this claim took much longer than it should have. 
Several appointments werent kept to and the supplier didnt turn up. And Mr N took 
his vehicle (a couple of times) to his company warehouse when weather was given 
as a reason why his windscreen couldnt be replaced, but the supplier then didnt turn 
up.
Mr N also made suggestions to try and move things forward more quickly, such as 
having the windscreen replaced by the main dealer. This wasnt agreed to. But 
Advantage recognised after that this would have cost less than their own supplier 
and made the claim progress sooner too. Parts werent ordered and later needed to 
be ordered and then painted which also caused some delay too.
During this four-month period Mr N had to use his car with a cracked windscreen. He 
has explained it was particularly worrying for him due to the potential failure of the 
windscreen and the safety issues that might present. And I can see why this would 
be concerning for Mr N.
So I dont think the £160 monetary payment and waiving the excess is enough to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience Mr N has been caused. Im minded to 
agree with our investigators suggestion (even with the benefit of £245 already being 
given) that a further £90 compensation payment would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances so Mr N receives a monetary amount of £250, in addition to waiving 
the excess.
So I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct Advantage to pay Mr N a further £90 
compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr N responded and accepted my provisional decision.
Advantage also responded and accepted my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the findings I reached in my provisional decision. 
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, and neither party provided anything 
which would lead me to depart from those provisional findings, my final decision remains the 
same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to:
Pay Mr N a further £90 compensation, taking the total monetary compensation to 
£250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman