DRN-2853956
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 by post. Ms C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ms Cs credit card application had a section for optional extras, one of which was PPI. It 
directed customers to an enclosed leaflet to read the policys principle features. There was a 
box Ms C could tick if she wanted PPI, or which she could leave blank if she didnt want it. 
Ms C ticked the box for PPI and signed the form to confirm her choices. She didnt choose 
all the optional features on offer, which indicates she knew they were optional. And she 
applied by post, in her own time and without any potential pressure from a salesperson. 
Further, Ive not seen any wider problems with Barclays sales process from the time, nor 
anything which shows that Ms C was misled into having PPI here. As far as I can see, 
Barclays offered Ms C a choice about whether shed like the policy, and she chose to take it 
at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Barclays didnt give Ms C tailored advice about buying PPI  this was a non-advised sale. 
And that was a legitimate way for Barclays to sell the policy; they were not required to give 
Ms C advice as shes suggested. Because this was a non-advised sale, Barclays did not 
have to check whether the policy was right for her. It did have to give Ms C enough 
information to decide for herself whether the PPI was right for her. 
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed her 
mind. Here, it looks like Ms C chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like Ms C 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations. 
The policy would have paid out on top of Ms Cs work benefits and offered her more 
comprehensive cover, especially for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her 
normal pay or ran out. So the policy would have been useful for Ms C in case something 
went wrong. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Ms C could cancel it at any time 
without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information about the PPI was likely to 
have put her off taking it out. 
Lastly, Ms C brought up that there were many other policies which were mis-sold, and I do 
understand why she raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were sold 
using different methods at different times, were suitable in different circumstances, and so 
on. So though some policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on its 
own merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found this particular policy to have 
been mis-sold.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms C about that. Because Barclays didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Ms C any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman