DRN-1649445
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained about AXA Art Europe Limiteds decision to reject a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2019 Mr H reported damage to a garden sculpture which he said tipped over 
during high winds. His insurer, AXA instructed a loss adjuster (LA) and in February 2019 
AXA said it wouldnt meet the claim. The LA reported that the sculpture had been leaning for 
some time due to erosion of the sculptures concrete base and sub soil. 
Mr Hs broker complained to AXA on behalf of Mr H. He said the claim should be met as the 
damage was caused by storm conditions. But AXA said its decision was correct. It said the 
sculpture should have withstood weather conditions that werent extreme. It excluded cover 
caused by gradual deterioration. 
Mr Hs broker brought the complaint to us. Our investigator thought AXA had acted 
reasonably. 
Mr H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide. He feels he should be 
compensated as he paid a premium to AXA for years. He said the broker was aware the 
sculpture was leaning for a number of years. Mr Hs broker is no longer involved in his 
complaint.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy with AXA provides cover for loss or damage - but has exclusions which arent 
unusual under insurance policies. It doesnt specify that items are insured in the event of 
storm conditions. 
Mr Hs broker believes the claim should be met due to storm conditions. In order for us to 
consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three questions:
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have 
happened?
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage?
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions. 
Weather conditions in the days up to and including when the sculpture was discovered on 27 
January 2019 show wind gusts between 7mph and 40 mph. These arent severe enough to 
say that storm conditions existed. In any event, I dont think the answer is yes to the 
remaining two questions. Ill explain why. 
Mr Hs broker provided a photo of the sculpture before it was damaged. This showed that the 
sculpture was either leaning or on a sloping lawn. The LA who attended Mr Hs property 
reported that Mr H told him the sculpture had been leaning for a number of years. Mr H told 
us the same. The LA reported the following:
It is the Insurers opinion, the collapsing of the sculpture is due to gradual 
deterioration of the concrete foundation, the eroding of sub-soil and/or inadequate 
construction, as there is no strengthening rod attaching the pillar to the foundation.
It was evident the sculpture had been leaning for several years and if maintained 
correctly the incident would not have occurred. Therefore, the claim is in breach of 
reasonable steps to protect against loss as the foundations were not in adequate 
condition.
Mr H says that he discussed the sculpture with a landscaper but was advised to leave it as it 
was. His broker told us that Mr H had discussed the maintenance of the sculpture with 
individuals, but none made substantive suggestions as to work that could be done to reduce 
the risk of damage. 
However, Mr Hs policy excludes cover for gradual deterioration. The policy says:
You are not insured for loss, damage or expense caused by or resulting from: .inherent 
defect, wear and tear.gradual deterioration
Under its general exclusions, AXA says you must take all reasonable steps to protect the 
collection against loss or damage.
The LA concluded that Mr H was in breach of the policy by failing to take reasonable steps to 
protect the sculpture from damage. 
I understand Mr H will be very disappointed with my decision. But I havent seen anything to 
contradict the findings of the LA  or to show that AXAs decision was unreasonable. From 
what Ive seen, I think wind gusts may have contributed to the sculpture failing over  but 
that this wasnt the main cause of the damage. I think the main cause of damage was due to 
gradual deterioration of the foundations supporting the sculpture. This means I think AXAs 
decision to reject Mr Hs claim was fair and in line with the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman