DRN-1618557
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in July 1994. The policy covered 
Mrs C for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C didnt agree. 
She said, in summary, that:
She wasn't told the PPI was optional - she was led to believe her mortgage 
application would not have been accepted if she didn't take the PPI.
The salesperson pressurised her into taking it by presenting her with statistics 
relating to cancer.
She has a condition which affects her ability to process visual information. This 
means she needs certain adjustments to be made to be able to read written material. 
Although she's always suffered with this, she was only diagnosed more recently. 
When the PPI was sold to her she would not have been able to fully understand the 
marketing material because she didn't know she needed adjustments to make things 
clear for her.
She was on a fixed term contract so may not have been eligible for PPI.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs complaint.
I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint for the following reasons:
Mrs C says she wasn't told the PPI was optional. I can't say for certain what was discussed 
during the meeting, so I have considered the paperwork which was completed at the time. I 
think it wouldve been reasonably clear  from the need to complete a separate application 
form  that this was a separate product which she could choose to take or decline. Overall, I 
think it more likely than not that Halifax made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and 
that she chose to take it. 
Ive considered what Mrs C says about being put under pressure to take the PPI, in 
particular being presented with statistics about cancer. I think it would have been a natural part of the sales process to explain the types of circumstances which might arise and for 
which the PPI would provide cover. And it was important for Mrs C to consider how she 
would make her mortgage repayments if she was diagnosed with a condition which required 
her to take time off work. So Mrs C's recollections of what was said and presented to her are 
not enough for me to conclude that Halifax put pressure on her to take the policy.
The bank advised Mrs C to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Let me explain why.
Mrs C was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the terms and conditions. She 
says she may not have been eligible because she was on a fixed term contract. And, whilst 
her employer has confirmed this, it is not what she or her employer said at the time of the 
mortgage application. Mrs C was asked "Are you employed under a fixed term contract" and 
she said no. And her employer confirmed her position was permanent. In any event, even if 
she was on a fixed term contract, this did not make her ineligible for the policy - she had to 
be "working when you apply" and "working" was defined as "Working in paid employment for 
at least 16 hours a week in the UK". So working as a contractor would have been included.
Mrs C says she didnt need the PPI because she would have received six months full pay 
followed by six months half pay from her employer if she couldnt work due to sickness or an 
accident. And she had some savings. But the mortgage was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mrs Cs home was at risk if she didnt keep up with the repayments. The 
PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident 
or sickness. And it would have covered her if she'd become unemployed. So I think the PPI 
could have been a useful benefit, in addition to Mrs Cs existing arrangements.
Mrs C wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As she 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely she needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I've looked in particular at the exclusion clauses for unemployment, bearing in mind what 
Mrs C told us about being on a rolling fixed term contract, even though this isn't how she or 
her employer described her employment at the time of the application. A successful claim for 
unemployment could not have been made if a fixed term contract ended. But the 
clause continues, "however, if you have been in continuous work with the same employer for 
at least three years and you had no reason to believe that your contract would not be 
renewed this exclusion will not apply."  This meant Mrs C would not have been able to make 
a successful claim for unemployment until April 1995, when she would have been in 
continuous work with the same employer for three years. But the PPI was intended to be in 
place for the lifetime of the mortgage and I don't think her inability to make a claim for 
unemployment in the first nine months of the policy would have stopped her taking the PPI - 
especially as she had no reason to believe she would be made unemployed.
The cost of the policy was communicated to Mrs C before she agreed to purchase it. The 
cost was set out in the mortgage offer, so she would have known she would have to pay 
£17.25 each month for it.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax's recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mrs C would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been provided to her overall, I think she would still have 
taken out the policy.I've taken into consideration what Mrs C has told us about her lifelong condition which 
impacts her ability to understand written material. But I can't see she made the bank aware 
of her difficulties, so I wouldn't have expected it to make any adjustments for her. There 
would have been an opportunity during the meeting for Mrs C to ask for anything she didn't 
understand to be explained ot her. And she's told us her mother was with her during the 
meeting, so she did have someone else who could help her to read and understand the 
paperwork. So this does not change my conclusion. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman