DRN-3899933
The complaint
Mr I complains that Lloyds Bank PLC took money from his account and added a marker to 
CIFAS, the national fraud data base.
What happened
Lloyds said it received a report that a payment of £15,050 made into Mr Is account on 18 
March 2022 had been obtained fraudulently. It returned the remaining funds of £12,527.57 
on 8 April 2022 under an indemnity recovery to the sending bank. Lloyds closed the account 
and added the marker. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She explained the high bar 
for adding a CIFAS marker. Mr I had said that this money was from his father who had sent 
20,000 US dollars from abroad via an exchange office. And that hed called his father whod 
confirmed that the money was from him. But this didnt explain why the money came from an 
account at another financial business in this country and with a name as a reference that   
Mr I didnt recognise. His only explanation that this was the name of the person that 
exchanged the money didnt make sense. And the fraud report hadnt been retracted. 
Mr I had provided documents he said show the money was from a property sale abroad and 
that it was sent to him. These hadnt been translated into English. Mr I said he was waiting 
for Lloyds in April 2022 or this service to request this. Our adjudicator said she found that 
difficult to understand if these did show proof of an international payment to his Lloyds 
account. She said that if Mr I was able to get the documents translated and for his father to 
contact the exchange office for an explanation of why the payment was sent to another 
individuals account first then this might assist.
Mr I wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He didnt accept that he was complicit in a 
fraudulent act. And said that hed get the documents legally translated and hadnt done so 
due to the costs involved.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds needs 
to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and the evidence 
must be clear, relevant and rigorous.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention.
Im satisfied that Lloyds received a report that this payment was fraudulently obtained. I 
note Lloyds had contact with Mr I about it. Hed provided the documents about this I 
understand weve now had. He didnt get these translated even when hed received a final 
response letter from Lloyds dated 19 April 2022 which didnt uphold his complaint and said 
he had not provided any acceptable evidence to challenge the fraud claim. He further 
appealed, and Lloyds sent another letter dated 26 April 2022 saying its position hadnt 
changed.
Mr I has now sent in translated versions of the documents which Ive considered carefully. 
On the face of it these show that a payment of 20,000 dollars was to be made to Mr I 
following a property sale abroad. And that a payment of this amount was made on 17 March 
2022 from abroad. It also seems that following the issue with his Lloyds account an 
intermediary involved with the transaction issued a document dated 12 April 2022 setting out 
the source of the money and that a named person/ company would be providing the money 
to Mr I in this country.
This translated documentation was also shared with Lloyds. It said that it didnt see how the 
documents explained the information about the person paying him the money. It also wanted 
to know if the money had been returned to Mr I.
I note from the documentation that the delivery address for the payment was said to be 
Cash in hand. The subsequent letter of 12 April 2022 states that payment to complete the 
transaction was made from the intermediary in cash. And that the amount to be paid was 
going to be in US dollars or its equivalence in the country of the beneficiary. I note that 
wouldnt be inconsistent with the amount of the sterling payment in question here. But there 
is no reference Ive seen to Mr Is bank details, to the money actually being exchanged and 
to how it would reach him other than in cash. At the time this letter was written he knew that 
the remaining part of money in his account had been returned by Lloyds and that it wanted 
an explanation about this payment. And Ive not seen information about that or to explain 
why another third-party account would have been involved in the transaction. As has been 
pointed out that name shown on his statement narrative wasnt known to Mr I and the 
account holder made a report of fraud.
Mr Is explanation must be that someone involved in the transaction has acted fraudulently. 
He referred at one time to that being someone potentially in an exchange office. But as I say 
I cant see any record of such exchange and a payment being made to his account. The 
issue our adjudicator identified about that remains and in my view there is important 
information still missing to show that Mr I is entitled to the specific payment that came into 
his account. And as he seemed to have contact details for the intermediary involved here 
and had arranged the letter I think hes had sufficient opportunity to address all of this. I note 
Lloyds suggestion that if he believed he had been the victim of fraud then he may want to 
follow this up with the relevant authorities. And that it would co-operate with this. 
It's fairly up to Mr I to support his complaint with evidence. He reasonably needs to be able 
to show that he was entitled to the funds paid into his account. Thats more than showing 
that his father had sent a payment intended for him. But would need to explain how that 
payment had been credited to his account at Lloyds. And via an unrelated third party who has said that the funds were fraudulently taken from them, hasnt retracted that claim and 
had provided sufficient to their own bank for it to raise an indemnity recovery. So, Im afraid 
I dont consider that Mr I has shown he was entitled to the specific payment into this 
account and that he was unwitting in what happened.
Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr I received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether Lloyds was fair to apply the marker, based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. And 
that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or 
financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Is account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr I received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Lloyds at the 
time.
- Mr I authorised the withdrawal of some of the funds and so was in control of who had 
the benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr I had knowingly used fraudulently obtained 
funds based on the evidence it had.
In light of this I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably too in returning the remaining money 
to the sending bank and closing Mr Is account. I dont have a reasonable basis to require 
Lloyds to do anything further. I can appreciate that Mr I will be disappointed given what is at 
stake for him. If he doesnt accept my decision he remains free to pursue this matter in court 
and subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman