DRN-2746618
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about the handling of a claim under the home emergency 
insurance section of their home insurance policy. The home emergency insurance is 
provided by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA), the home buildings cover is provided by 
another insurer.
What happened
At the beginning of May 2020, Mr and Mrs M made a claim under their policy with IPA, as 
they found a water leak below an area of flat roof. 
IPA sent out one of its contractors the same day. IPA says the policy only covers a 
temporary repair. The roofer said the roof was in a poor state and needed to be replaced. He 
stapled a piece of felt over the area that he said was leaking and provided a quote for 
replacing the roof, which would not be covered under the insurance.  
Around six weeks later, in mid-June 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted IPA again to say the 
work done to the roof had resulted in further internal damage. They say they think the roofer 
damage a tile when attaching the felt, which allowed water to pour through to the ceiling 
below when it rained.
IPA arranged for a representative to inspect the damage. It said the photos of the roof show 
it needs replacing and it is not responsible for any damage. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He did not recommend that it be upheld as 
he thought IPA had done all it needed to under the policy. 
Mr and Mrs M do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed 
to me. They are also unhappy that a home insurance claim for a new roof was refused and 
they say they have had to have the roof replaced at a cost of around £1,350. For the sake of 
clarity, I am only addressing the complaint against IPA in respect of the home emergency 
claim in this decision and not anything to do with the home insurance claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy provides cover for certain specified home emergencies. It says, we 
will send a repairer to assess the situation and carry out emergency work arising from  
storm damage causing water to enter your home[and] sudden damage that allows water 
to enter the home. It does not cover the cost of a permanent repair or replacement of the 
roof. 
I have looked at the photographs provided by IPAs roofer contractor, which he took when he 
first attended in May 2020 and that Mr and Mrs M have provided in support of their claim that 
he made the leak worse. 
The photos taken in May 2020, show water damage to two quite large areas of internal 
ceiling (they appear to be from two different rooms but it is not certain). There are also 
photos of the roof. These show that the bitumen layer looks worn and the edging tiles are 
broken in places. The photos also show a small area has been covered by a roofing 
material, this appears to be where the bitumen was the most damaged and had caused the 
leak. The roofers report says, however, that to fix the leaks properly the roof needed to be 
replaced. 
Mr and Mrs M say that more water leaked into their property a few weeks later and they are  
adamant this was due to something done wrong by the roofer. However, Ive not seen any 
evidence that the roofer should have done anything differently at that appointment in May 
2020. I am satisfied from what I have seen that the roof needed to be replaced due to 
general wear and tear and Mr and Mrs M had been told this. There is no evidence that the 
leak in June 2020 was only the result of the way the roofing material had been fixed to the 
roof, or because the roofer should have something different at that stage. 
In addition, even if there were evidence that the roofer should have done something 
differently in May 2020, theres no evidence that any failure to do so caused any further 
damage. I say this because there was quite extensive water damage to the internal ceilings 
at the time of the first call out. The photo provided by Mr and Mrs M provided as evidence of 
further damage is not significantly different. The photo shows water damage to the same 
area of the internal ceiling as before and while the staining appears to have spread a little 
further, it is not significantly worse than in the earlier photos; and it is usual for damp to 
spread even if there is not a further ingress of water. It seems to me that the ceilings would 
have needed repair as a result of the original leak in any event, and this has not changed. I 
am not therefore persuaded by this photo that IPA should pay for the replacement of the roof 
or repairs to the ceilings (which Mr M says he has repaired himself in any event). 
I can understand that replacing the roof was probably an expense Mr and Mrs M were not 
prepared for, but this is not covered by this policy and I am not persuaded that IPA did 
anything wrong which would mean it should pay for it.
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr and Mrs Ms situation, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman