DRN-4465994
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about Chaucer Insurance Company Designated Activity Companys 
(Chaucer) settlement of their travel insurance policy. My references to Chaucer include its 
agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy insured by Chaucer.
While on holiday in a European country unfortunately Mrs S had a bad accident when some 
automatic sliding doors started to close which knocked her over and trapped her leg. Mrs S 
was taken to hospital where she had stitches in her leg and a CT scan as shed hit her head 
when falling. After three hours Mrs S was discharged with blood thinning injections to 
prevent deep vein thrombosis.
Before the accident Mrs and Mr S had planned to go on a trip by train to a city in another 
European country and return to the initial European country by train. Mrs S says due to her 
injury she wasnt able to travel by train so they did the same journey by taxi. Mrs S says she 
spent the rest of the holiday in a wheelchair and on their return to the UK a relative had to 
collect them to take them home rather than they travel home by a pre-booked train.
Mrs and Mr S claimed on the policy for:
Hospital costs: 370.39 Euros
Taxi for translator: 118.70 Euros
Taxi for other European country trip: 300 Euros
Taxi from hotel to airport: 340 Euros
Fuel for the relative to collect them to return home: £134.20
Shoes and trousers damaged as a result of the accident: £99.99
Unused pre-booked train fare to return them home: £123.10.
Chaucer accepted the claim and paid some of the costs. Under the Emergency Medical 
Expenses section of the policy it paid the hospital costs and relatives fuel costs, less the 
policy excess of £95. Under the Personal Possessions policy section it paid for the 
damaged shoes and trousers. Chaucer initially deducted the £95 policy excess for claims 
under that policy section but as a goodwill gesture waived the second excess.
Chaucer said it wouldnt pay the taxi costs claimed as the policy didnt cover those costs in 
Mrs and Mr S circumstances. The pre-booked UK train ticket wasnt covered as Chaucer 
had paid for the relatives fuel to take Mrs and Mr S home.
Mrs and Mr S complained to us. They said Mrs S had a very significant injury and on her 
return shed been seen by a plastic surgeon who initially thought she would need a skin graft 
but fortunately that wasnt necessary. They want their full claim paid and said Chaucer was 
hiding behind the policy wording and treating their claim with total disregard.
Our investigator said Chaucer had reasonably settled the claim.
Mrs and Mr S disagree and want an ombudmans decision. They added that during the claim 
procedure Chaucer never discussed personal injury issues but Mrs S had a significant injury 
to her leg which led to her having trauma, and ongoing pain and suffering as well as the 
problems it caused during their holiday. They sent further photos to show the extent of her 
leg injury.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Travel insurance doesnt cover all the circumstances and costs a consumer may have while 
travelling. The terms and conditions of the policy set out what risks and costs an insurer has 
agreed to cover and pay under the contract of insurance with the consumer. So its 
reasonable for Chaucer to refer to the policy terms when assessing Mrs and Mr S claim.
Mrs and Mr S have raised that the policy should cover her personal injury issues. Section 4 
of the policy headed Personal Accident provides the benefits detailed in the very specific 
circumstances set out in the policy terms and conditions. In summary a benefit may be 
available if Mrs or Mr S had an accident while on their holiday which is the sole cause of 
permanent total disablement, or loss of limb(s) within 12 months of the accident. The policy 
defines loss of limb to include complete loss of use of a leg. If Mrs and Mr S think that the 
extent of Mrs S injury falls within the policy terms of that section they can make a claim to 
Chaucer to assess. If Mrs and Mr S and Chaucer cant agree on the outcome of that claim 
then Mrs and Mr S can make a separate complaint to us on that matter.
This decision is only about whether Chaucer fairly and reasonably settled Mrs and Mr S 
claim for the expenses they incurred on their holiday. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down (or settle) claims unreasonably. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr S 
but I think Chaucer fairly and reasonably settled the claim. Ill explain why.
Chaucer paid for Mrs S medical costs and some of the travel costs under the Emergency 
Medical Expenses section. In that section the policy terms say: 
You are not covered for
the cost of taxi fares, other than those for Your travel to or from hospital relating to 
Your admission, discharge or attendance for outpatient treatment or appointments or 
for collection of medication prescribed for You by the hospital. However, any costs 
incurred by You to visit another person or by another person visiting You in hospital 
are not covered.
I think the policy terms are clear that taxi costs are only covered by the policy in certain 
circumstances and Mrs and Mr S claim for taxi costs for their trip between the two European 
countries dont meet those circumstances. Ive seen the additional photos of Mrs S injury. 
I dont doubt that her leg was very painful and I understand it was much easier for Mrs S to 
travel to the other European country by taxi, rather by train. But those taxi costs arent 
covered under any section of the policy. Taxi costs from the hotel to the airport also arent 
covered so Chaucer correctly declined to pay those costs under the terms of the policy. 
Theres no basis on which I can fairly say that Chaucer ought to pay those costs.Mrs and Mr S claim for taxi costs for a translator also arent covered by the policy terms. Its 
not clear whether the translator was for the three hours Mrs S was at the hospital. If so and 
Chaucer considered that a translator was required then I think its more likely than not that it 
would have paid a translators reasonable travel costs. But Ive seen no evidence that 
Mrs and Mr S asked for, and Chaucer agreed to pay for, a translator. If Mrs and Mr S 
needed a translator for another situation theres no cover for a translators travel costs. So 
I think Chaucer reasonably declined the taxi costs for a translator.
For the avoidance of doubt, I think Chaucer acted reasonably in not paying for the pre-
booked UK train fare as it had paid for the more expensive fuel cost for Mrs and Mr S 
relative to collect them to drive them home. They cant claim for both costs as that would 
mean they would be paid twice for travelling home.
Chaucer paid the claim for Mrs S shoes and trousers that were damaged due to the 
accident. The costs for those items are only covered under the Personal Possessions 
section. As the policy says an excess applies for each policy section under which claims are 
made, Chaucer correctly initially deducted a separate excess. As a gesture of goodwill 
Chaucer agreed to waive that excess, which was fair as it didnt need to do so.
Overall Im satisfed that Chaucer reasonably settled the claim and Ive seen no evidence to 
support Mrs and Mr S suggestion that it treated their claim with total disregard.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman