DRN-4414033
The complaint
Mrs B complains about her mortgage with Preferred Mortgages Limited. She complains the 
mortgage was mis-sold, that the interest rate is unfairly high, that Preferred has charged her 
for insurance, and that it wont allow her to convert the mortgage from interest only to 
repayment terms.
What happened
Mrs B has a mortgage with Preferred. She took it out in 2007, borrowing just under £500,000 
(including fees) on interest only terms over 25 years. The mortgage offer says the interest 
rate was fixed at 5.84% until 1 January 2009, and thereafter would be set at 2.15% above 
the LIBOR rate.  
Mrs B complains about her mortgage. She believes it was mis-sold because it was on an 
interest only basis  she says there has been a finding that all interest only mortgages, 
including hers, should never have been sold. She says that the mortgage should have been 
switched to repayment.
Mrs B also complains about sums Preferred has added to the mortgage balance over the 
years to cover the cost of insurance. She thinks the interest rate is unfairly high, and says 
that she should have been able to convert the mortgage to repayment terms so that it can be 
paid off.
Our investigator said part of Mrs Bs complaint was made out of time. And she didnt uphold 
the part of the complaint she said had been made in time. So Mrs B asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, complaints made to us are subject to time limits. Ill set out 
how that works as I deal with the various parts of Mrs Bs complaint. Ill first explain that I 
havent seen any exceptional circumstances which might explain why Mrs B was unable to 
complain sooner than she did.
I cant consider a complaint about the sale of the mortgage, and whether it was mis-sold 
because it was on interest only terms. Preferred didnt sell the mortgage; an independent 
broker did. So the broker  not Preferred  is responsible for the sale and for whether the 
mortgage was appropriate for Mrs B or not.
As far as Preferreds decision to lend is concerned, it made the lending decision in 2007. 
Thats much more than six years ago  six years being the main time limit in our rules. And 
Mrs B brought this complaint in 2022, which is more than three years since she knew that 
there was a problem with her mortgage  three years from date of knowledge (or 
constructive knowledge) is the alternative time limit. She says shes been complaining about 
that since 2012 at least. Neither the Financial Ombudsman Service nor Preferred has a 
record of an earlier complaint, so we cant take that complaint as the starting point for the 
time limit. But Mrs Bs recollection that she was unhappy about the mortgage as far back as 
2012 shows that she knew she had cause for complaint more than three years ago.
For all those reasons, Im not going to consider a complaint about the sale of the mortgage 
(for which Preferred is not responsible in any event) or about Preferreds lending decision.
Mrs B also complains about the interest rate applied to her mortgage. As with the complaint 
about the sale of the mortgage, theres no evidence of an earlier complaint having been 
received either by Preferred or by the Financial Ombudsman Service. And Im satisfied that 
Mrs B would have known what she was being charged from the regular statements and 
letters about changes in the interest rate Preferred sent her  meaning she would have been 
aware of cause for complaint if she considered that the interest rate was too high. That 
means I can only consider the fairness of the interest rate charged since August 2016, 
though in doing so I will take into account things that happened before that date insofar as 
they impact on the fairness of the interest charged from August 2016 onwards.
With that in mind, Ive noted that the mortgage offer sets out that a fixed rate was in place 
until January 2009. From then on, until now, the interest rate was a variable rate set to track 
LIBOR by 2.15%. That means that the interest rate will change from time to time, making 
sure that it is always 2.15% above the LIBOR rate (or the rate that has replaced LIBOR more 
recently).
Ive reviewed the history of the mortgage. Im satisfied that this is what Mrs B has in fact 
been charged throughout. Her interest rate has, since 2009, tracked LIBOR as the mortgage 
offer said it would do. I dont therefore think that there is any basis on which I can find that 
Preferred has charged interest unfairly since August 2016.
I also note that Preferred has not offered Mrs B a new fixed interest rate to replace the 
LIBOR tracker rate. It doesnt offer new fixed rates to existing customers, and so Mrs B has 
not been treated less favourably than any other Preferred customer. Its also worth noting 
that the mortgage has been in arrears for the majority of its existence. The tracker rate of 
2.15% above LIBOR is a relatively low rate and if Preferred did offer new fixed rates, those 
rates (or the reversion rate that would follow) would not necessarily have been any lower.
Moving on to the charges for buildings insurance, I can see that Preferred wrote to Mrs B 
about this regularly, and the charges it added were on her regular statements. Im therefore 
satisfied that Mrs B ought to have known about the charges at the time, and so I can only 
consider the fairness of charges added to the mortgage balance for the six years leading up 
to her complaint  from August 2016. 
Preferred changed its policy in around 2019, and since then it no longer charges a borrower 
for buildings insurance in the absence of evidence that the borrower has their own policy. 
But that doesnt mean it was unfair that it did charge for this before then.
The terms and conditions of the mortgage require Mrs B to keep the property insured  this 
is standard for all mortgages. Preferred regularly asks Mrs B to confirm her property remains 
insured and to provide details of her insurer. When Mrs B hasnt responded, or hasnt 
provided details of her insurer, Preferred has added her property to its own insurance. This 
isnt unreasonable, since it protects Preferreds security  in the event that anything happens 
to the property affecting its value, it means Preferred would still be able to recover the 
money it lent. 
Theres a cost to this, and Preferred has added the cost of its insurance to Mrs Bs mortgage. Its allowed to do so by the terms and conditions, and I dont think it was unfair 
that it did so. It didnt add any costs for periods when Mrs B confirmed she had her own 
insurance in place. I dont think it acted unfairly.
Finally, Mrs B complains that Preferred hasnt allowed her to convert the mortgage to 
repayment terms. Preferred says it doesnt offer this to any customer. I dont think a blanket 
approach like that is necessarily fair, since Preferred has an obligation to help customers 
ensure that their mortgage is repaid by the end of the term where possible. In some cases, 
converting to repayment terms, or making arrangements for regular overpayments on an 
equivalent basis, might be the fair thing to do.
However, I dont think that applies in Mrs Bs case. Converting the mortgage to repayment 
terms would mean a substantial increase in the monthly payments. I dont think thats 
something that would have been possible for Mrs B, since the mortgage has been in arrears 
for most of its life. If she was struggling to make payments while the mortgage was interest 
only, she wouldnt have been able to afford it on repayment terms. But if Mrs B wants to 
make overpayments to reduce the balance in the future, once she has cleared the arrears, 
she will be able to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman