DRN-3372896
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Paypal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA handled a dispute he raised with 
it.
What happened
On 10 August 2021, Mr T purchased an electric therapy bed online, for £1,109.98. He paid 
for the item using PayPal, and it was successfully delivered to him. However, Mr T has said 
that on receiving the item he became aware that it didnt function as the advertisement for 
the item had said it would.
Mr T explained that the advertisement gave the impression that the head and foot of the bed 
could be moved independently from each other and the rest of the bed. But this wasnt the 
case. Instead he said these areas didnt move independently but raised up and down 
together with the rest of the bed. 
Because Mr T wasnt happy with this, he raised a dispute through PayPal, as the user 
agreement between Mr T and PayPal allowed for buyer disputes to be raised in certain 
situations. Mr T noted the reason for the dispute was that the item was significantly not as 
described, which is one of the reasons a dispute can be raised under. PayPal looked into 
this and declined the dispute. It said that the item Mr T had purchased wasnt significantly 
not as described. And so, it said Mr T wasnt eligible for a refund.
Mr T was unhappy with this, and so raised a complaint with PayPal. It responded and said 
that if an item is materially similar to the seller description, we do not consider it to be 
significantly not as described. And, in this case, it considered the item was materially similar. 
So, it maintained its position that the dispute was denied. PayPal also noted that Mr T had 
made a chargeback through his bank and said it would await the outcome of this.
Because Mr T remained unhappy with PayPals position, he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt 
think PayPal had acted unfairly in saying the item was materially similar, and so wasnt 
eligible for a refund under the dispute category of significantly not as described. The 
investigator said theyd looked at the advert for the item, as well as a video of the bed Mr T 
received, and he considered that whilst the item may not have met Mr Ts expectations, it did 
do what the advertisement said it would. So, he didnt think PayPal needed to do anything 
differently.
Mr T didnt agree. Given this, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require PayPal 
(Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything more. Ive explained why below.
Mr T feels PayPal has acted unfairly in declining the dispute he raised. So, Ive thought 
carefully about this. The starting point being the terms of the user agreement between 
PayPal and Mr T. This being because it is the basis of the contract between the two parties.
On looking at the user agreement I can see that PayPal offers the opportunity to raise a 
dispute in a number of situations  including where an item purchased is received but is 
significantly not as described. And this is what Mr T did here. He feels the item falls into this 
category, given the way the bed moves.
So, Ive needed to consider whether in PayPal acted fairly or not, in saying that the dispute 
raised doesnt meet the standard of significantly not as described. 
The user agreement gives some information for disputes raised in this area. It provides a 
number of reasons why an item may be significantly not as described. These reasons 
include the item being materially different to the sellers description of it, the item arriving 
damaged or missing major parts or features.
The user agreement also notes some things that wont be considered significantly not as 
described  such as the item being properly described, but not meeting the buyers 
expectations.
So, Ive also needed to bear in mind these examples when considering this case. And based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied PayPal acted fairly in deciding the item wasnt significantly 
not as described.
I say this because Ive also seen the seller descriptions advertised online, and the video Mr 
T has provided of the item. The description explains:
Customers can enjoy a height adjusting feature allowing the table to go up and down. There 
is a 3 point motor which reclines and adjusts the head piece, middle piece and feet piece. 
Finally, the table also tilts at the head and feet (see the second picture)
()
Adjust/recline the head piece, middle piece and foot piece.
Given the above, Im aware the seller has said the head, middle and foot of the bed can be 
adjusted. And Ive seen the video Mr T has provided of the bed moving. In this the bed is 
moving up and down, with the head, middle and foot of it adjusting  this controlled by 
buttons on a control panel. I do understand that Mr T interpreted the sellers description as 
saying the parts moved independently. But the above doesnt say that, and I think PayPals 
conclusion that the item isnt materially different to the sellers description is reasonable. For 
that reason, I dont think PayPal has acted unfairly here by saying the item isnt significantly 
not as described. Mr T received the item he purchased, as it was advertised. And so, 
PayPals buyer protection isnt engaged in this instance.
From PayPals final response letter, I understand that Mr T raised a chargeback dispute in 
relation to the item. PayPal isnt responsible for the chargeback raised, that would be the 
provider Mr T raised the chargeback through. So, this doesnt form part of this decision. And 
isnt something I hold PayPal accountable for.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And so, I dont 
require PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman