DRN-3031683
Complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in November 2001 when Mr L and Mrs L arranged a mortgage. Mr L and Mrs L say Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold them PPI. 
Only Mr L was covered by the policy, which included cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr L and 
Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. They also said that the dates corresponding to 
Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage were outside the time-frames for considering commission. 
Mr L and Mrs Ls representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr L and Mrs Ls. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr L and 
Mrs Ls complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
 
We dont have a copy of all the documents I think would have been used in the sale process 
as it was back in 2004. Businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely, but I do have 
sight of some of BoSs computerised records and Ive seen quite a few very similar 
complaints to this one. These records include Mr L having been asked a number of 
questions to check that he was eligible for the cover. Taking that into account, alongside 
what I already know consumers like Mr L and Mrs L were supposed to be told and given 
when being offered mortgage PPI like this, I think its unlikely that the PPI element would  
have been added to their mortgage without Mr L and Mrs Ls agreement. To complete the 
sale, they also would have needed to provide their bank details so that the monthly 
premiums could be taken separately to the mortgage payments. 
I also think Mr L and Mrs L would have been sent the policy details setting out everything 
that had been agreed in a schedule which Ive seen several times before.
All of this means that I think circumstances show Mr L and Mrs L bought the PPI because it 
was a form of protection they wanted to have with their mortgage.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr L and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about Mr Ls circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. 
I can see that Mr L was eligible for the cover and was entitled to some sick pay. But the 
evidence Ive seen suggested the PPI would have lasted for longer than his full sick pay, 
paying out for up to 24 months, so it would have lasted for longer than his likely redundancy 
entitlement as well. Mr L also told us that hed have been entitled to a death in service 
payment from his employer. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of his 
death. And he wouldnt have been paid a death in service benefit if he was off sick or if he 
lost his job. Mr L also told us about having some savings to fall back on but having the PPI in 
place would have meant he could have avoided falling back on these with the PPI potentially 
paying out for far longer than his savings would have covered. 
Although Mr L says received treatment for a medical condition resulting from an accident 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont think it was wrong for BoS to have 
recommended it. I say this because this condition was treated at the time and doesnt 
appear to have led to long-term problems that might have significantly affected Mr Ls ability 
to make a successful claim. So I dont think there was anything to suggest that policy wasnt 
right for him. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr L and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr L and Mrs L as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying from the 
information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr L and 
Mrs L would have declined the cover had BoS done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back or mental health conditions, 
in light of Mr L and Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations or 
exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr L and Mrs L would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr L and Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr L and Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr L and Mrs Ls individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr L and Mrs Ls particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means BoS doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
Commission complaint
Ive also decided this is not a complaint where Im able to look into commission. 
Ill explain why. 
 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the 
PPI policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that 
could create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, as well as any interest that may have been paid 
because of that.  
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship 
provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were 
added to the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came into force on 6 April 2007. For 
these provisions to apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit 
agreement would still need to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would still need to be 
covered by the Consumer Credit Act on this date. 
Ive seen evidence from BoSs records that Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage was taken out in 
November 2001 and was closed in September 2004. That means the relevant lending for 
the purposes of a commission complaint ended then and was no longer running by 6 April 
2008. 
It follows that Mr L and Mrs Ls mortgage isnt affected by the guidelines Ive set out 
above. So BoS doesnt have to consider paying them any money in respect of the 
commission it got.
Im sorry to have to disappoint Mr L and Mrs L on this occasion.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr L and Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award. And as Ive also decided that there isnt a commission complaint to consider, I dont require Bank of Scotland 
plc to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman