DRN-4277192
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy by 
accident. He wants £1,500 compensation for the trouble and upset this caused.
 
What happened
Mr B was stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. He bought temporary cover for 
£30 and esure later provided him with a letter of indemnity and £250 compensation for his 
trouble and upset. But the police issued Mr B with a fine and penalty points. And it took a 
month for him to sort this out. He thought esures compensation was insufficient. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esure had 
promptly issued the indemnity letter. But he thought its offer of compensation was insufficient 
for the disruption, stress and worry caused for over a month. He thought it should increase 
its compensation offer by £150 and reimburse Mr B £30 with interest for the cost of the 
temporary policy. 
esure replied that it had offered £50 to cover the cost of the temporary policy, but Mr B had 
declined this. And it had increased its offer to £250, including the £30. So it thought it need 
not pay interest on the £30. It also thought £400 compensation was recommended without 
evidence to show that it had taken Mr B a month to sort out the issue with the police. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the mistake arose when Mr B cancelled his policy for his old car but esures 
agent incorrectly cancelled that for his new car. So Mr B drove uninsured for two months 
before he was stopped by the police. I can see that he found this experience intimidating for 
himself and his family. But I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for the polices actions. 
But esure has agreed that the wrong policy was cancelled by its mistake. 
When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that esure provided Mr B with a letter of indemnity the day after he notified it about 
the police stop. I think this was a prompt response. Mr B was able to send this to the police 
and the investigation was halted after the police had checked this with esure. Mr B had to 
pay £30 for temporary cover. But for esures error he wouldnt have incurred this expense. 
And so I think esure should reasonably refund this amount.
esure also offered Mr B £250 compensation in total. We think that being stopped by the 
police is a serious matter and it caused Mr B significant upset. And we think that £250 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable. But Mr B also received notification of a fine and 
penalty points. This caused him further avoidable worry and stress. And it took over a month 
for the police to email him to say that the matter had been dropped. 
esure thought the month taken to resolve matters with the police was due to Mr B sending in 
its letter late. But I dont agree. I can see that Mr B forwarded esures letter to the police two 
days after he received it. But Mr B had to send the letter again as a different department was 
then dealing with the matter. So it took a further month for the police to tell Mr B that it 
wouldnt be taking the matter any further. 
So Im not satisfied that esures offer of £250 compensation, including the £30 refund, goes 
far enough in Mr Bs circumstances to reflect the impact its error had. Mr B thought esure 
should pay him £1,500 compensation. But I dont think thats in keeping with our published 
guidance for redress as Mr Bs car wasnt impounded, he was able to drive home, and he 
didnt have to attend court. I agree with the Investigator that £400 compensation in total 
better reflects the impact of the error and its significant impact on Mr B. 
And I think that to restore Mr Bs position esure should also refund him £30 for the temporary 
insurance. And, as Mr B has been without his money for some time, I think esure should add 
interest to this amount from the date of the police stop until it made its offer to reimburse this 
cost. Even though this is likely to be a small amount, I think thats in keeping with our 
approach and is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr B £400 in total compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
administration of his policy. 
2. Reimburse Mr B £30 for the cost of his temporary policy, adding interest to this amount 
at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the payment to the date it offered to 
reimburse this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman