DRN-3678494
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly closed his current account. Mr D also 
complains about the service provided by Santander during the process of closing his current 
account and credit card. 
What happened
Mr D held a current account and credit card with Santander. Mr D lives abroad. In February 
2022 Santander wrote to Mr D to say it had taken the decision to close his account and 
withdraw banking facilities. Santanders letter gave Mr D 60 days notice of its intention. 
In April 2022 the account was closed. Mr D has told us he found out when his online banking 
facility disappeared. At the time of closure, there was around £190 in Mr Ds account. Mr D 
contacted Santander and asked why his account had been closed. Mr D says Santander told 
him hed failed to answer some questions previously so took the decision to close his 
account. 
Santander sent Mr D a final response but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Santander 
agreed to use the funds from Mr Ds current account to clear the balance of his credit card. 
Once that was done, there was around £20 owed to Mr D. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint. Mr D explained that post is 
unreliable in his country of residence and that Santander was aware of this. Mr D confirmed 
he didnt receive the letters giving notice of Santanders intention to close his account. And 
Mr D said Santander had failed to take reasonable steps to send him the rest of his money. 
The investigator didnt think Santander had acted unfairly and didnt uphold Mr Ds case. 
Santander confirmed it could make a payment for the remaining balance on receipt of 
information from Mr D. 
Mr D asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr D for the level of detail hes provided in his timeline and submissions. Ive 
set out the timeline in brief above as all parties broadly agree about what happened. I also 
want to explain that my decision will focus on the key issues in Mr Ds case  I wont 
comment on every point raised. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects 
the informal nature of this service. But I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered 
everything provided in this case. 
Mr D has advised he didnt receive Santanders closure notices that gave notice of its 
intention to close his account. Mr D explains that the postal service in his country of 
residence is unreliable. I dont doubt what Mr B has told us. But the terms and conditions say 
either party can choose to end the relationship and close an account. The terms allow 
Santander to close an account for any reason by giving two months notice. Im satisfied 
Santander was giving Mr D notice of its intentions when it wrote to him in February 2021. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr D but I havent been persuaded that it was unreasonable for 
Santander to write to him to advise it was closing his account. The terms also say that any 
remaining funds will be sent by cheque to the last registered address. Im satisfied that 
Santander complied with the terms when making arrangements to close Mr Ds accounts. I 
havent seen anything that shows Santander acted unfairly. 
Santander used the funds in Mr Ds current account to clear his credit card but a small 
balance remained. Mr D asked Santander to send the remaining £20 to his bank account in 
the country of his residence. Santander initially said it would have to issue a cheque in the 
post. But its now advised a transfer can be arranged. Mr D submitted information requested 
by Santander to our investigator so the funds should be sent to him shortly. 
Santander couldve offered to complete the transfer at an earlier point. But I havent found 
grounds to tell Santander to compensate Mr D. Whilst there was some inconvenience 
caused it was reasonably low level in my view and Im satisfied its agreement to process a 
transfer is fair. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman