DRN-4130966
The complaint
Mr C complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) are unfair in wishing to apply multiple 
excesses to his insurance claim for damaged carpets.
What happened
Mr C has a landlords contents insurance policy with UKI, for a flat he rented out. He says his 
tenants kept and bred dogs in the flat, against the terms of the tenancy agreement. The flat 
had no outdoor space and the tenants allowed the dogs to soil the carpets.
Mr C didnt make a claim but on enquiry was told the damage would be considered to be 
accidental and that an excess would apply to each carpet/room. Mr C wasnt happy with that 
but UKI maintained it was a reasonable approach because the damage likely happened at 
different times.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt that the damage would more properly 
be considered as malicious, and they felt just one excess should apply to the carpets. UKI 
agreed the damage could be considered as malicious, but they maintained it was reasonable 
to deduct multiple excesses.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind UKI has agreed to treat the carpet damage as malicious, the matter for me 
to decide is whether or not one or more excesses should be applied.
Looking at the policy wording, it provides cover for damage caused by Malicious persons. It 
appears to be agreed that the tenants wilfully allowed the dogs to cause damage which was 
 in effect  inevitable. Keeping dogs inside a flat with no outdoor space is only going to lead 
to the carpets being soiled.
And, from what I understand, there was little or no attempt to clean up after the dogs. Its 
also been said that there were rent arrears leading to a bailiff being instructed as well as 
several complaints made against the tenants. I consider this beyond mere neglect. In any 
event, UKI had already agreed to cover the damage as accidental so really, its the excesses 
that are in contention.
Turning to those, I understand UKIs point that the damage is unlikely to have all been 
caused at the same time. But this is an unusual case and by the tenants doing what they did, 
multiple areas of damage were inevitable. And it has been agreed they can be considered as 
having flowed from the acts of malicious persons. The policy isnt prescriptive in terms of 
acts though, it just says malicious persons. 
In view of that, I think it is reasonable to say that just one excess should apply. Ultimately the 
tenants/malicious persons are responsible for the damage arising so that is what the claim is 
for, i.e. malicious persons is the peril.
While Ive already concluded that just one excess should apply to the carpets, it may be 
worth noting something else the policy states. Under the heading Excess, it says All 
claims or series of claims, arising out of any one original cause, will be treated as one claim. 
The original cause here was malicious persons keeping dogs in an unsuitable environment.
For completeness, I am aware Mr C may want to claim for other damage and possibly theft 
too. As he has not yet made a claim other areas havent been fully considered, although it is 
worth me mentioning that UKI have suggested some of the damage may be considered as 
being to the building (cover which Mr C doesnt have) and that further excesses may be 
applied if the claims fall under different sections of the policy.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold this complaint. If Mr C submits a claim for the damaged 
carpets, then only one excess should be applied. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman