DRN-3345879
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wouldnt allow them to 
port their full outstanding mortgage balance. They are also unhappy with the customer 
service provided during the application.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage in 2017. The mortgage was with a different lender. They 
borrowed £174,960. The mortgage had a fixed rate of interest until November 2022  
meaning early repayment charges would apply if it were repaid before that date.
The mortgage offer from the time shows the purchase price they paid for the property was 
£230,000 and that the loan to value ratio was 76.07%. It does note separately a value of 
£232,500 being attributed to the property. But the purchase price is what was used when 
calculating the loan to value (LTV) ratio. 
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs M contacted their lender about porting the mortgage to a new 
property. Theyve explained they were looking to purchase a property closer to parents as 
they had a young family and they were also looking to release some equity from their 
existing property  which had increased in value. Theyd maintained their monthly mortgage 
repayments and as a result the outstanding balance had decreased as scheduled. 
The lender gave a decision in principle indicating it was agreeable to porting the mortgage  
and noted the balance to be just over £167,200 at that time. However, at the same time, 
their lender was in the process of transferring its business to Halifax.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage was transferred to Halifax at the end of March 2020. Mr and 
Mrs M had been expecting to hear from Halifax about their porting application  as their 
original lender had indicated they would. But this didnt happen.
Mr and Mrs M then got in touch with Halifax in May 2020 to discuss their application. They 
went through a mortgage interview but the member of staff they spoke to, after completing 
the interview, said their application needed to be reviewed by another department. The 
application was referred, and I understand Mr and Mrs M then had to go through additional 
discussions, repeating what had been talked about previously as well as being asked for 
more information about the purpose of the move. Mortgage payments were maintained while 
all this was going on.
Halifax has said it had concerns about the affordability of the mortgage. Nevertheless it 
agreed to port it  but only if the balance was reduced. The new property Mr and Mrs M were 
buying was valued at £230,000  the same price theyd paid when buying their existing 
property. Halifax said, as Mr and Mrs Ms current property had increased in value and theyd 
made repayments, the LTV ratio had improved. But if the entire mortgage balance was 
ported to the new property  as its value was less than what their existing property had 
appreciated in value to, their LTV ratio would worsen (albeit not beyond what it stood at 
when the mortgage was originally taken). Halifax said it wouldnt agree to this and that the 
balance would need to be reduced so the LTV did not change from what it currently stood at. 
And Mr and Mrs M were required to pay a partial early repayment charge (ERC) on this 
reduction in the mortgage balance.
Mr and Mrs M have said they reluctantly agreed as they did not want to lose the house they 
were buying. But they had to use the majority of the equity they were releasing to satisfy this 
condition. So, they hadnt achieved one of their intentions  to release equity to provide them 
a safety net, during uncertain times caused by the pandemic, which would ultimately be used 
to renovate their new property.
Halifax issued a mortgage offer at the end of July 2020 confirming it would lend £148,845 
and also noted the value of the new property as £230,000.
Halifax sent Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors a redemption statement for their existing mortgage as 
part of the completion process. This indicated a full ERC would be payable. Mr and Mrs M 
have said this led to confusion and further distress, while this was clarified  particularly as it 
happened so close to completion.
The mortgage was ported, with the lower balance, and Mr and Mrs Ms purchase and sale 
transactions completed in September 2020.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Halifax about how it had handled matters. They said theyd had 
a decision in principle from their original lender and were unhappy that Halifax had not 
honoured this and had required them to go through a whole new application process. They 
were also unhappy that Halifax had not agreed to port their entire mortgage balance. They 
said its actions had meant they hadnt received the intended benefit of the transaction. 
Mr and Mr M also said Halifaxs actions had caused them a great deal of distress.
Halifax said it didnt think it was wrong to require a new application after the mortgage was 
transferred to it. And it said it felt it had acted correctly in requiring the mortgage balance to 
be reduced as the affordability assessment it carried out indicated Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances were different and that, by allowing the whole balance to be ported, the LTV 
ratio wouldve worsened. It did acknowledge that the application process had not been 
handled smoothly and that Mr and Mrs M had been taken through a mortgage interview 
unnecessarily, as the matter shouldve been referred to the correct department prior to this. 
So, it offered them £30 for call costs incurred and £375 for the distress caused.
In a separate response Halifax issued a few weeks later it also acknowledged the 
redemption statement issued had caused confusion and couldve been clearer. And that this 
had led to Mr and Mrs M needing to make additional phone calls and caused distress. And it 
also acknowledged that there had been a delay in logging Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about 
the redemption statement, which Halifax accepted had meant theyd had to make additional 
calls. In recognition of these further issues, Halifax offered Mr and Mrs M an additional £15 
for call costs and £225 for the distress caused.Mr and Mrs M asked our service to consider the complaint. One of our Investigators did so 
and felt that the complaint should be upheld. She said Halifax had not considered the 
relevant regulations when assessing this application. In particular it had said that it had 
carried out an affordability assessment and that this had led to it insisting on the reduction in 
the mortgage balance. But our Investigator felt the rules set by the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), allowed an affordability assessment to be set aside here as the 
requested change to the mortgage  porting it  did not involve any additional borrowing or 
any change to the terms of the mortgage that affected affordability. So, she felt if this had 
been considered, and the assessment carried out correctly, Mr and Mrs M shouldve been 
allowed to port their entire mortgage balance.
To put things right, as Mr and Mrs M still wanted the rest of the borrowing theyd originally 
held, she recommended that Halifax increase Mr and Mrs Ms borrowing to the amount it 
was prior to the port (which she understood to be a difference of £17,500) and release this 
amount to them. She said it should ensure this balance was on the same terms as the rest of 
the mortgage. And she also said Halifax should refund the partial ERC it had charged and 
pay 8% interest on that amount.
In response Halifax said before it would agree to this, it would need Mr and Mrs M to 
complete another affordability assessment. And it contacted them directly to do this.
Our Investigator said they felt this wasnt necessary  and Halifax had not understood her 
findings which were that an affordability assessment could and shouldve been set aside 
here. So, she felt in addition to what she had recommended, Halifax should pay an 
additional £150 for the distress it had now caused by contacting Mr and Mrs M to go through 
another affordability assessment.
Halifax didnt agree. It said that the improved LTV ratio before the porting request, and how 
this would change after the request, as well as what it had learned from the affordability 
assessment about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances meant that this wasnt a like for like 
lending application. So, it didnt think it had acted incorrectly by requiring the balance to be 
reduced, or by declining to do as the investigator had now suggested.
As Halifax didnt agree with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
How the application was handled
Mr and Mrs M have said, as they had a decision in principle from their original lender, they 
dont think Halifax shouldve required them to go through an application process. But I dont 
agree.
A decision in principle is a high-level check, based on limited information of what a lender 
might be willing to agree. It isnt a binding offer and doesnt mean a lender must provide a 
mortgage. A full application would always have needed to be reviewed  even if the 
mortgage had remained with the existing lender. So, I dont think Halifax was wrong to 
require a full application to be made. And, as the decision in principle is very early in the 
mortgage process, I also dont think it was unreasonable here, to start the application again, 
from before that stage  given Halifax had acquired the mortgage and a couple of months 
had passed since the decision in principle was first given.Mr and Mrs M have also challenged some of the information Halifax asked for  in particular 
why they were looking to move  as they dont feel this was Halifaxs concern. I dont think it 
was unreasonable or unusual for Halifax to ask these questions  as understanding more 
about the motivation for a mortgage application gives it a better understanding of what a 
customer is looking to achieve. As Ill go on to explain, I dont think Halifax used this 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think it was wrong to ask these questions as part of 
the application process.
There were clearly issues with the application process, which Halifax has acknowledged. 
The original lender seems to have indicated that Halifax would get in touch with Mr and 
Mrs M after the mortgage transferred to it, to continue the application. But this information 
was incorrect. There were then issues with Mr and Mrs M being taken through a mortgage 
interview unnecessarily, delays in the matter progressing at various stages and a lack of 
clarity in the redemption statement which led to further distress and confusion.
Halifax acknowledged that the application couldve been handled better than it was  and I 
agree. To put things right, in the two responses it sent to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint, it 
offered to pay a total of £45 to cover call costs Mr and Mrs M incurred and £600 for the 
distress caused.
Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs M have said about how stressful they found this all. 
And I dont doubt it was upsetting that the application did not progress smoothly. But Im also 
conscious that mortgage applications, at the best of times, can be quite stressful 
experiences. And the time from Halifax starting to look at the application, in mid-May 2020, 
to a mortgage offer being issued, in late July 2020, was, in my view reasonable. Particularly 
considering the unprecedented circumstances at the time around the pandemic, which 
Halifax would also have been adapting to.
So taking all of this into account, I think the offer made by Halifax across its two final 
responses - £45 for costs and £600 for the distress caused  is fair and reasonable to 
address the issues with how the application was handled.
Was Halifaxs lending decision fair?
Halifax has said, it didnt agree to port the mortgage balance in full because it had concerns 
about whether it was affordable. And it has also talked about the LTV ratio increasing 
meaning that this was not a like for like application.
As I mentioned, Ive seen Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage offer from 2017. This confirms they 
borrowed £174,960. And it sets out the purchase price of the property was £230,000 and the 
LTV was 76.07%.
The mortgage offer from Halifax in July 2020 confirms the value used for the property Mr and 
Mrs M were purchasing was £230,000  the same as the original property at the time of 
purchase. So, given theyd been making payments towards the capital for several years, 
reducing it to around £167,200 as of March 2020, the LTV ratio after the port would not have 
been more than when the mortgage was originally agreed.
Halifax has used the sale price of the existing property to say that the LTV has increased. 
But I dont think this is fair. The price that Mr and Mrs M were able to achieve in 2020 had no 
relation to the original lending agreement  or the terms of it. So, I dont agree with Halifax 
that this meant the application was not like for like.Turning to affordability, Halifax has said, after an assessment, it didnt think the mortgage 
was affordable to Mr and Mrs M based on their circumstances and how they had changed, at 
the point they applied to port.
The FCA previously carried out a Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This led to a series of 
major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are regulated. MMR 
regulations have brought about requirements for stricter lending assessments  including 
around affordability aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to their 
mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed tests under the old rules but not 
under the new ones. So, it introduced certain rules, in the Mortgage and Home Finance: 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), to address this.
One such rule, MCOB 11.6.3, says a lender can set aside the outcome of an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage, there is no 
additional borrowing (other than for product fees) and no change to the terms of the 
mortgage that affect its affordability. 
Mr and Mrs M were existing customers. After the mortgage transferred to Halifax, they owed 
it the outstanding balance, under the terms of the existing mortgage. That wouldve been the 
case whether the mortgage ported or not  they would always have been responsible for 
paying that amount, under the existing terms. They were not looking to borrow more money 
as part of the port. And they hadnt requested any other changes to the terms of the existing 
mortgage. So, there were no changes being requested to the terms of the mortgage, 
material to affordability. As a result, Im satisfied Halifax was able to set aside an 
assessment of affordability.
Halifax has argued that Mr and Mrs Ms employment circumstances were different when it 
assessed the application in 2020 to when they took out the mortgage in 2017 and to when 
the previous lender had first looked at the request to port. But this is an affordability 
consideration. And again, the rules set by the FCA say that an assessment of this can be set 
aside, if there are no changes to the terms of the mortgage contract material to affordability, 
which there werent here.
Now while the rules set by the FCA allowed Halifax to set aside an affordability assessment, 
it still had a responsibility under the FCAs principles, to take account of Mr and Mrs Ms best 
interests. But I dont think it can reasonably be argued that what they were requesting was 
not in their best interests, even taking into account how their circumstances had changed. 
They already had a mortgage with Halifax. And they were required to repay it. That 
requirement remained the same regardless of whether it was secured against the existing 
property or the new one. Porting the mortgage created no increased risk to Mr and Mrs M. 
And indeed, for the reasons Ive explained, it also created no increased risk in terms of LTV 
ratio when compared with the terms of the agreement originally made. 
Mr and Mrs M have also set out why they wanted to move - to be closer to parents as they 
had young children. And theyve mentioned the provisions for their family  particularly 
schools  being better near to their new property. And moving at the time they did meant 
they were closer to these things sooner  which might not have been possible later if market 
conditions and house prices in that particular area had changed. They also talked about 
wanting to release some equity from their existing property  providing them some savings 
should they need it. And that money would also allow them to make changes to their 
property, which would potentially increase its value, without having to take more borrowing.Taking all of this into account I think the change to their mortgage they requested  porting 
the entire balance to a new property  was in their best interests. And so, I dont think Halifax 
has acted fairly when declining to do as Mr and Mrs M asked or by requiring them to reduce 
the outstanding mortgage balance.
With that in mind, Ive thought about what a fair way would be to put things right.
If Halifax had set aside its affordability assessment, as I think it reasonably should have 
here, Ive seen no other reason that the porting application wouldnt have proceeded as 
Mr and Mrs M requested. So, their mortgage balance wouldve remained at the level it was 
before the port completed  so theyd owe Halifax more than they do now. But theyd have 
had those funds available to use. And Mr and Mrs M would not have incurred a partial early 
repayment charge. This is the position Mr and Mrs M have asked to be put in and what our 
Investigator recommended. And I think that is fair.
Halifax has said it doesnt believe it would be responsible to increase Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance now. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs M have missed any 
mortgage payments or fallen into arrears. They are aware that the balance they owe to 
Halifax would increase and would attract interest and that theyd need to repay this amount, 
through regular monthly repayments. And the suggested way to put this right simply puts 
Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in, if Halifax had not made an error. 
And so, while I note Halifaxs objections, I still consider this is reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Halifax should pay interest on the amount the mortgage lending is increased by 
 as Mr and Mrs M have benefitted from not paying interest on this amount since the 
mortgage ported. But I do think itd be fair to require Halifax to pay 8% interest on the partial 
early repayment charge  as that should never have been incurred so Mr and Mrs M have 
been deprived of the use of this money.
I also agree with our Investigator that Halifax should pay compensation for the additional 
distress caused to Mr and Mrs M by it contacting them recently, while our investigation was 
ongoing, to complete an affordability assessment. For the reasons Ive explained, Im 
satisfied Halifax was entitled to set aside an affordability assessment. And this is what our 
Investigator explained in their opinion. For Halifax to then say it would insist on another 
affordability assessment being completed and to contact Mr and Mrs M about this was not, in 
my view, appropriate here. It showed a lack of understanding of the original opinion. And 
given, as Halifax is aware, a copy of that opinion was shared with Mr and Mrs M as part of 
our processes, I think this contact was likely to cause additional distress. Our Investigator 
recommended that Halifax pay £150 for the upset caused by this. And in the circumstances, 
I also think that would be fair.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Halifax should,
Increase Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage balance by a sum equivalent to the difference 
between the amount outstanding on the first day after their mortgage was ported 
(which I understand wouldve been in the region of £148,845  the amount on the 
mortgage offer) and the balance on the mortgage immediately before it was 
redeemed and ported (which I understand wouldve been in the region of £166,000). 
Pay Mr and Mrs M an equivalent sum (advance them the lending they should always 
have been provided). Halifax should provide Mr and Mrs M a calculation showing 
how it has reached the figure used.Ensure that increase to the mortgage balance is on the same terms as the rest of the 
mortgage.
Refund the Early Repayment Charge Mr and Mrs M paid at the time of the port, plus 
an additional 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the 
amount was paid, to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs M £150 for the distress caused by it unnecessarily contacting them 
recently to ask them to complete an affordability assessment.
If it hasnt already done so, in addition to the above, pay Mr and Mrs M the total 
redress (£45 for costs and £600 for distress and inconvenience) it offered in its final 
response letters dated 12 August and 29 October 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint.
To put things right I order Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to settle the complaint as 
directed in the Putting things right section of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman