DRN-4437815
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly refused 
to pay his claim under his pet policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought his policy for his dog on 29 January 2021 where the warm up period ended on 
12 February 2021. That meant he had full cover for his dog after 12 February 2021 and 
obviously he renewed his policy again in January 2022. His dog had a probable burst tooth 
abscess on 10 July 2023 for which he made a claim for £583.60 for the vet fees in removing 
a further six teeth, as his dog had had previous teeth removed. 
Red Sands said that as Mr Bs dog had previous teeth issues before he bought the policy, to 
include the removal of some teeth, it concluded this claim came from a pre-existing condition 
which was excluded under this policy. 
Mr B was of the view that at the time he bought this policy his dogs teeth were fine. He 
believes Red Sands was wrong to confuse a condition with a previous history. Red Sands 
wouldnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to us. 
The investigator was of the view that any such previous teeth issues would indicate a dental 
disease. Therefore, she believed Red Sands was right to consider Mr Bs claim to be from a 
pre-existing disease, so she didnt think Red Sands had done anything wrong in refusing to 
pay Mr Bs claim. 
Mr B disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
First, I appreciate and understand Mr B will be very disappointed with my decision. I can see 
from his correspondence with the investigator and indeed Red Sands how strongly he feels 
about this matter. 
Secondly, no one in this service is a qualified vet. What we are adjudicating here is whether 
the insurer, Red Sands has reasonably and fairly interpreted its policy terms based on the 
evidence provided by the vet history of Mr Bs dog. Therefore, our expertise lies in insurance 
policies not veterinary science. We decide decisions against insurers, not vets, just to make 
that clear. Furthermore, other than what is written in the vet history for Mr Bs dog, there is 
no further vet evidence to consider in this complaint, either on behalf of Red Sands or from 
Mr Bs own vet. 
Under the rules which govern vets, pet insurers are entitled to rely on what is written in the 
vet history for the insured pet by any vet who attended and treated that pet. Consequently, if 
there is any dispute about what was written in the vet history that is then a matter solely 
between the consumer and their vet and doesnt involve the insurer. 
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) says the following under what is not 
insured: 
Any accident, illness or condition which is present or has clinical signs or symptoms 
before taking the policy out or occurs in the first 14 days of the policy.
The policy document elaborates this and says the following: 
Pre-existing conditions aren't covered in this policy. A condition, injury or illness is 
pre-existing if [name of pet] has shown signs or symptoms before you joined [brand 
name of product], or within the first 14 days of your initial policy start date. This also 
includes any other condition, injury or illness which is connected to that pre-existing 
condition as determined by a vet.
You don't have to tell us about [name of pet] pre-existing conditions. When you 
submit a claim, we will request their medical history. Each claim will be assessed, 
and all relevant exclusions applied from the date your policy started.
For example, if your claim relates to Diabetes and [name of pet] showed signs or 
symptoms, received treatment, medication, or advice for this condition before the 
start of this policy, we will exclude Diabetes together with the related conditions such 
as Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), Insulin deficiency and Reduced insulin levels.
And it says: 
If you or your vet noticed something was wrong with your pet before you took out the 
policy, it could be a sign of a pre-existing condition.
So, in line with many other pet policies, this policy doesnt cover any condition if symptoms 
or signs of that condition manifested before the policy started or within the first 14 days of 
the policy starting. This also includes any other condition, injury or illness related to that 
condition. It gave an example of diabetes. But say for example Mr Bs dog had a problem 
with his eye or ear, before the start of this policy, then no other eye or ear conditions would 
be covered under this policy either. I consider that if Mr Bs dog had problems with his teeth 
requiring extractions, before the policy started that would also be considered a pre-existing 
condition, if it arose again whilst on cover under this policy. 
Its standard industry practice to exclude cover for pre-existing conditions, so I dont find that 
unusual or significant. The regulations permit insurers to decide what risks they want to 
cover and what risks they dont want to cover. Its part of their commercial discretion. Their 
only duty is to explain that fully in the policy documentation which I consider Red Sands has 
done here. 
So, in order to decide if Red Sands was correct in deeming Mr Bs claim for the removal of 
some of his dogs teeth a pre-existing condition, I need to look at what Mr Bs vet wrote in 
the vet history. 
The vet history shows the following: 
11 March 2020 in the Post dental care sheet it says Dental disease is extremely common in our pets. They rely on you, as their owner, to clean their teeth daily and 
ensure regular dental health checks with our nurses. Where dental care for your pet 
is not established, tartar is allowed to build up on your pet's teeth. Tartar is a mix of 
bacteria, saliva and food particles and forms a hard brown coating on your pet's 
teeth, a build up of tartar leads to gum inflammation (gingivitis) which can be seen as 
sore, red gums that bleed easily. If left without treatment, periodontal disease occurs 
- a condition involving infection and destruction of the tissue around the tooth which 
can eventually lead to tooth loss.
13 March 2020 1.0 Dental dog<25Kg temp 38.7, both extraction sights look good 
just red. Extract 105 106 205 206, rest all fine so S+P rest.
28 May 2020 teeth good.
18 March 2021 Teeth awful! Heavy tartar generally, needs S+P poss extractions, 
only had dental 1 year ago but needs another.
24 April 2021 1.0 Dental dog<25Kg  scale & polish S+P - teeth seem improved 
since last seen, evidence of tartar cracked off already? Brushed already? No 
extractions needed.
8 March 2023 Teeth tartar ++.
6 July 2023 pain on opening mouth, cried out, bad teeth also
12 July 2023 1.0 Dental dog <25kg extractions (with drill) Exam mouth - blood from 
right upper arcade close to 107/108 - likely burst abscess rhs able to open mouth 
widely without pain now.
The issues in July 2023 are concerning the claim Mr B made which Red Sands declined to 
pay. 
Mr B bought this policy on 29 January 2021 and the initial 14-day period expired on 14 
February 2021. Prior to this Mr Bs dog had four teeth extracted on 13 March 2020. The vet 
said his teeth were awful in March 2021 so a short time after this policy started and 
previously in May 2020 the vet said his teeth was fine following the extraction and scale and 
polish done in March 2020. 
However, in the post dental care sheet given to Mr B in March 2020, it clearly details what 
dental disease is and how it can lead to the loss of teeth. Mr Bs dog had teeth extracted in 
March 2020 and again in 2023. So, I consider its not a question of confusing history and a 
condition as Mr B contends, its simply a matter that sadly Mr Bs dog is prone to dental 
disease and had another episode of it in July 2023 with further teeth being extracted. The 
dental condition existed by virtue of the first extractions. Its irrelevant that in May 2020 his 
teeth were fine. Mr Bs dog had the extractions and a scale and polish on the remaining 
teeth a mere two months earlier. But as the further events showed this dog was prone to 
dental disease which also isnt an unusual condition. Therefore, because there was an 
instance of dental disease before the policy started and again this year, I consider Red 
Sands has done nothing wrong in declining Mr Bs claim as it concerns a pre-existing 
condition. 
For the avoidance of any doubt, I dont consider its that relevant here whether Mr B had his 
dogs teeth checked as per the policy conditions in 2022. The condition dental disease was 
already established in my view in 2020 and reoccurred again in 2023. Had Mr Bs dog never 
had any teeth extracted and made his claim, then given there was no dental check-up noted 
in the vet history for 2022, it might have been relevant that there was no dental check up in 
the preceding 12 months. The relevant policy condition says the following:
 A vet must have given your pet a dental exam within the last 12 months to confirm 
their teeth were healthy and any treatment must be carried out within 3 months. If 
you don't follow these requirements, your claim will not be paid.
So, in conclusion I consider Mr Bs dog did have a dental condition and it was pre-existing 
since it occurred in 2020 and Mr B took out his policy in 2021. And it then reoccurred in 
2023. Therefore, I dont consider Red Sands did anything wrong in declining to pay Mr Bs 
claim, given the wording of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman