DRN-3369836
The complaint
Mrs I complains about two guarantor loans provided to her by UK Credit Limited, (UKC), 
which she says were unaffordable. Mrs Is complaint has been brought to this service on her 
behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions 
being taken by Mrs I.
What happened
UKC agreed two guarantor loans for Mrs I between March 2015 and September 2016. Some 
of the information UKC provided about the loans is shown in the table below. The loans have 
been repaid.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 17/3/2015 29/4/2016 £2,000 £198.98 12
2. 19/9/2016 1/9/2017 £1,000 £99.49 12
Mrs I says that UKC didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting her credit 
nor did it assess signs of her over indebtedness. She said that the unaffordable high cost 
loans worsened her financial situation which was already poor. In some months she 
struggled to pay back the loans. Mrs I said that she couldn't default on the loan as it would 
mean her guarantor would have to pay.
In its final response letter, UKC said it had spoken to Mrs I and asked her for details of her 
income and expenditure. It also carried out a credit check. Based upon the information 
available, UKC was satisfied that it had an understanding of Mrs Is circumstances, and that 
the loans were affordable. It didnt have any concerns about her financial position at the 
time. So, it didnt feel the need to request bank statements or additional information. It had 
obtained Mrs Is bank statements to aid its complaint investigation and said that whilst it was 
evident that she relied slightly on her overdraft, it could see large amounts were being spent 
on items that were not a necessity for the normal standard of living. 
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Is complaint about Loan 2 should be upheld. 
UKC disagreed with the investigators view about Loan 2. It said, in summary, that:-
- Apart from two missed payments on her mail order account, Mrs I showed no other 
signs of financial hardship. She was maintaining her live credit well. Mrs Is credit file (on 
Loan 2) showed she was only slightly into her overdraft, as she was £36 overdrawn with 
an overdraft limit of £500. There were no other signs of poor creditworthiness There 
were no signs that she was using or had used short term credit. It had found no 
evidence to suggest Mrs Is credit file was that concerning, that UKC should have 
completed further checks, especially as Mrs I was able to repay Loan 1 without any 
difficulty.
- It appeared that because Mrs I was transferring money backwards and forwards 
between her accounts, that this was the main reason for her being in her overdraft. It 
appeared it was a matter of choice rather than a lack of funds each month that kept   
Mrs I in her overdraft. UKC was of the view that Mrs I was able to afford her existing 
outgoings as well as her loan repayment with UKC. It hadnt seen any returned direct 
debits which suggested that Mrs I was able to control her finances to ensure she was 
able to repay what she owed.
- There were quite a few one off costs over the three month period of bank statements it 
had seen. So, it was of the view that Mrs I wouldnt have been in her overdraft by so 
much if she chose to not spend her funds on luxury costs.
- There were no missed payments on Loan 2 and UKC failed to find any missed 
payments on any of her existing credit at the time she was paying for Loan 2. UKC said 
it was convinced that this loan was affordable and sustainable, and the checks carried 
out by UKC were sufficient and proportionate.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs I
and to UKC on 11 February 2022. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when UKC lent to Mrs I, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged UKC to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that UKC needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreements. 
I said that repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet 
these repayments. 
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors. 
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UKC had to think about whether Mrs I could 
sustainably repay her loans. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Mrs I undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs I. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Is case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did UKC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Is loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did UKC make fair lending decisions? 
Did UKC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Is loan 
applications to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
UKC spoke to Mrs I and gathered some information from her about her income and 
expenses before it agreed the loans. It also carried out a credit check.
Loan 1
The loan amount was £2,000. The interest rate on Loan 1 was 34.05%, (39.9% APR). The 
loan was to be repaid over 12 months with monthly repayments of £198.98. If Mrs I made 
each payment when it was due, shed pay £2,387.76 in total. Shed told UKC that the loan 
was to be used for a holiday. 
Id listened to a recording of the call between UKC and Mrs I in which Mrs I provided the 
lender with more information about her income, benefit income, outgoings, and credit 
commitments. Mrs I said that her partner paid the rent and council tax. UKC calculated that 
Mrs I would have a monthly disposable income of around £300 after making the loan 
repayment each month. Id noted a breakdown of Mrs Is income and expenses on UKCs 
final response letter. It appeared to me that Mrs Is total monthly outgoings including UKCs 
loan repayment were £821.33, and this left a monthly disposable income of £268.67.
Id also reviewed UKCs credit checks. Mrs I had a credit card with a balance of £891 and a 
£1,000 credit limit. Her current account was £230 overdrawn with a £500 overdraft limit. The 
checks also showed that Mrs I had missed her last payment on a communications account 
and there was a £57 balance on that account. I thought the missed payment might have 
caused UKCs some concerns. 
Id thought about UKCs checks. I was concerned that UKC appeared to have mostly relied 
on Mrs Is statement of her expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, in Mrs Is circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable for UKC to base its assessment 
on the financial information Mrs I had provided about her expenses. Mrs I was entering into a 
significant commitment with UKC. She would need to make monthly repayments of around 
£199 for 12 months from a relatively low income. So, I would have expected that UKC would 
want to gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Is financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I didnt think that UKCs checks went far 
enough. I thought it would have been proportionate for UKC to independently check the true 
state of Mrs Is finances before agreeing the loan. 
UKC was required to establish whether Mrs I could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments 
were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mrs I, asking for copies of payslips, bills 
and/or receipts for her expenses and by asking her for more information about her existing 
credit commitments. UKC didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think the 
checks UKC had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But although I couldnt say the checks UKC did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that 
in itself didnt mean that Mrs Is complaint should succeed. I also needed to be persuaded 
that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown UKC that Mrs I couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. 
Loan 2
Around five months after Loan 1 was repaid, Mrs I applied for Loan 2. The loan amount of 
£1,000 was half the amount of Mrs Is previous loan and her monthly repayments had 
reduced to £99.49. The monthly repayments were to be made over 12 months. Mrs I told 
UKC the loan was to be used for furniture and a holiday.
The interest rate on Loan 2 was 34.05%, (39.9% APR). And if Mrs I made each payment 
when it was due, shed pay £1,193.88 in total.
Id reviewed UKCs credit checks. UKC would have seen from these that Mrs Is total credit 
amount had significantly increased since Loan 1 was taken out around 18 months earlier. 
Her total credit balance was over £12,000 higher before Loan 2. Shed taken out four new 
credit accounts between August 2015 and November 2015 including a hire purchase loan for 
a car. More worryingly, Mrs I had two accounts near their respective credit limits. On one of 
these, a mail order account, shed missed two of her last five payments. The credit checks 
also showed that Mrs I had an overdraft of £36 on a current account with a £500 overdraft 
limit. Altogether, I thought UKC ought to have been concerned about the large increase in 
credit, the missed payments and the accounts approaching their credit limits which might 
have suggested that Mrs Is finances were under pressure.
Mrs I told UKC that her monthly income was £1,230. Shed started a new job seven months 
before the loan application and had passed her probationary period. I wouldnt have 
reasonably expected UKC to ask for more information about Mrs Is job because she was no 
longer on probation. Mrs I said that her husband paid all the household bills, and that she 
just paid her car expenses and insurance. UKC said that Mrs Is total monthly credit 
commitments were £479.19 including its loan repayment. In its final response letter, UKC 
said that it hadnt asked Mrs I for details of her expenditure as the surplus of £750.81 after 
payment of her credit commitments including its loan instalment was enough to cover her 
remaining bills.
I thought UKC ought to have been concerned about Mrs Is need to borrow high cost credit 
despite her apparently low living costs and her relatively high disposable income. I was also 
again concerned that UKC appeared to have mostly relied on Mrs Is brief statement of her 
expenses without verifying them. I thought it ought to have verified her expenses in line with 
CONC 5.3.1(4)  to check that she would be able to meet her repayments without being 
caused undue difficulty or adverse consequences. So, I didnt think that the checks that UKC had carried out before agreeing to Loan 2 were 
reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did UKC make fair 
lending decisions? 
Loan 1
Mrs I provided her bank statements from around the time of Loan 1 to this Service. Id 
reviewed these to give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen, although I 
wasnt suggesting that these were the checks that UKC should have done. 
Id noted that Mrs Is income and the living costs on the bank statements were in the region 
of  the amounts declared by Mrs I in her call with UKC. It appeared that Mrs I had managed 
her current account by making numerous transfers between the account and two other 
accounts. The account was generally within its overdraft limit although I could see that it was 
overdrawn briefly for one day. But overall, I didnt think the account was showing signs of 
financial distress. The statements didnt show any apparent issues such as significant 
gambling or short term loans. I didnt think they would have caused UKC serious concerns if 
the lender had seen them. 
So, from the information Id seen, I didnt think better checks by UKC would have uncovered 
anything that would have shown that Mrs I might have difficulty repaying her loan 
sustainably. Looking at the statements, there was nothing to suggest to me that Mrs I was at 
this stage dependent on credit or that she was having problems managing her finances. 
Looking at everything in the round, I hadnt seen enough to find that UKC ought to have 
declined to lend Loan 1 to Mrs I and I wasnt persuaded that UKC had lent irresponsibly on 
this occasion.
Loan 2
Mrs I provided her bank statements from around the time of Loan 2 to this Service. Shed 
also agreed to them being sent to UKC. Id reviewed Mrs Is bank statements and could see 
that she was in receipt of the income of around £1,230 that shed declared to UKC as well as 
benefit income of around £137. Id also noted that Mrs I was still managing her account by 
making frequent transfers between the account and two other accounts. Her overdraft limit 
was exceeded on a couple of occasions by less than £2 for one day each time. But overall, 
Mrs I appeared to be managing her account satisfactorily. Id noted that Mrs I was paying for 
more household bills than shed told UKC. But overall, I didnt think the account was showing 
signs of financial distress. The statements again didnt show any apparent issues such as 
significant gambling or short term loans. And I didnt think they would have caused UKC 
serious concerns if the lender had seen them at the time of the loan application. 
From the information Id seen, I didnt think better checks by UKC would have uncovered 
anything that would have shown that Mrs I might have difficulty repaying Loan 2 sustainably. 
So, I didnt think UKC made an unfair lending decision when it provided Loan 2 to Mrs I.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think UKC had acted unfairly when it provided 
Loans 1 and 2 to Mrs I and subject to any further representations by Mrs I or UKC, I said that 
I didnt intend to uphold this complaint. I appreciated how disappointing my decision would 
be for Mrs I. But overall, I wasnt persuaded that UKC had lent irresponsibly.
Mrs I responded to my provisional decision to say that she agreed with it.
UKC responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mrs I and UKC have given me nothing further to consider, I see no
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I
dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman