DRN-3452826
The complaint
Mr D says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to
him.
What happened
This complaint is about an 18-month instalment loan for £3,000 that ELL provided to
Mr D on 30 November 2018. The monthly repayments were £255.42 and the total repayable
was £4,597.56.
Mr D says he was taking out loans to pay off others, he was dependant on credit and had a 
gambling addiction at the time. He struggled to repay the loan.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought ELL shouldnt have given the
loan. ELL disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ds complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D would
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ds ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr D. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr D undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr D. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr D. It asked for his monthly income and estimated his living costs using national
averages. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing credit 
commitments. It reviewed recent bank statements to verify his salary and some outgoings. 
Based on these checks ELL thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
From the credit check ELL carried out it could see Mr D had taken out and settled over 20 
payday loans during 2018, three of his credit cards were near their limit and he had £27,378 
of active unsecured debt. From his bank statements it could see he was spending a very 
significant proportion of his income on gambling transactions. 
So I think it was clear that Mr D was having problems managing his money, that he was 
reliant on credit and that was trapped in a cycle of borrowing to repay. I think ELL ought to 
have therefore realised it was most likely Mr D would be unable to sustainably repay this 
loan  so without borrowing to repay, or suffering some other adverse financial 
consequence.
It follows I find ELL was wrong to give this loan to Mr D.
Ive also thought about whether ELL acted unfairly in some other way towards Mr D and I
havent seen any evidence that it did.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr D to repay the capital amount that he borrowed,
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for lending that should
not have been provided to him so ELL needs to put that right.
It should:refund all interest and charges Mr D paid on the loan;
if reworking Mr Ds loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*;
if reworking Mr Ds account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr D to agree an affordable repayment plan; and
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ds credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ds complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday
Loans, must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman