DRN-1137757
 
The complaint
Mr G complains that MYJAR Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner. 
What happened
Mr G was given seven loans by MYJAR between April 2016 and August 2018. There were 
two significant breaks in Mr G's borrowing as shown in the table below. The first three loans 
were due to be repaid just a few days after they were taken. The remaining loans were due 
to be repaid in three monthly instalments. Mr G has successfully repaid all his loans. A 
summary of Mr G's borrowing from MYJAR is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount 
1 24/04/2016 28/04/2016 £  100
2 27/06/2016 28/06/2016 £  100
3 23/08/2016 26/08/2016 £  100
Break in lending
4 21/02/2017 26/05/2017 £  100
5 24/06/2017 28/09/2017 £  150
Break in lending
6 21/04/2018 27/07/2018 £  500
7 27/08/2018 30/11/2018 £  100
 
Mr G's complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didn't think it had been 
unreasonable for MYJAR to agree to give the loans to Mr G. So he didn't think the complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr G didn't agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasn't been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
MYJAR did some checks before it gave each of the loans to Mr G. It asked him for details of 
his income and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file before agreeing each 
loan. I've seen a summary of the results of the credit checks and they don't show anything 
that I think should have caused additional concerns to the lender. In particular they don't 
show the CCJ that Mr G says was on his credit file at that time.
At this stage it would be worth noting that, generally, the information a consumer might see, 
when they request a copy of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. 
A lender might only see a small portion of the credit file, or some data might be missing or 
anonymised, or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences 
between the information MYJAR received from its credit check and the information Mr G 
says it should have seen.
As I've noted above I think Mr G's borrowing from MYJAR fell into three distinct chains. I 
think that the gaps between loans 3 and 4, and between loans 5 and 6, were long enough 
that it would have been reasonable for MYJAR to conclude that Mr G's finances had moved 
on from whatever situation had required his earlier loans. So I think it would have been 
reasonable for MYJAR to reflect that in the checks it performed.I think that the checks MYJAR did before agreeing each of the loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Mr G needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income hed 
declared. Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Gs circumstances 
at the time, and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for MYJAR to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing each of the loans. 
And there wasnt anything in the information Mr G provided or the information MYJAR 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying.  So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give any of these loans to Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
MYJAR Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman