DRN-4072444
The complaint
Ms W complains about how Haven Insurance Company Limited has dealt with two claims 
made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms W was unhappy with the settlement Haven offered her when car 1 was written off. She 
wants this increased. Ms W was also unhappy because Haven declined her claim for car 2. 
It said the damage to the car was caused by mechanical breakdown and this was excluded 
from cover.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Havens valuation for car 1 was too low and this should be increased by £574, in keeping 
with our approach. But he thought Haven had reasonably relied on an engineers report to 
decide that the damage to car 2 was caused by mechanical failure and not by fire. And he 
thought this was excluded from cover by the policy. So he thought Haven had fairly declined 
the claim. 
Haven agreed with the Investigators view. Ms W said she had seen smoke coming from her 
car and so she wanted her claim paid. Ms W asked for an Ombudsmans review, so her 
complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms W wants a fair settlement for the loss of car 1. She said she 
wanted £1,500. Haven had valued her car at £1,152, less the £550 policy excess. I can see 
that Ms Ws policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Havens offer was too low. So Ive checked how he came to this 
conclusion. I can see that he looked in four of the motor trade guides we use for cars of the 
same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Ms Ws car at the date of its loss. He 
found three valuations and took an average of these. The car had been a previous total loss 
and, in keeping with our approach, he made a deduction of 20% for this to reach £1,726 
before the deduction of the policy excess. 
So he thought Haven should increase its settlement offer by £574 with interest as Ms W has 
been without her money for some time. I think thats fair and reasonable as the valuation 
was made correctly in keeping with our approach and Ms W has been without her money for 
some time. I can see that Haven has agreed to pay this increase and the interest.  
Ms W also wanted compensation for Haven initially declining this claim. But Im satisfied 
Haven has already explained that it couldnt deal with the claim whilst Ms W was threatened 
with court action by the police for drink driving. When this was dismissed, Haven then dealt 
with her claim. And so I cant see that Haven did anything wrong that merits compensation. 
Ms W was unhappy that Haven had declined her claim for car 2. Our approach in cases like 
this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy and fairly and reasonably.
Haven relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim. As stated on page 15 of the policy 
booklet, the policy doesnt cover:
Loss of or damage to Your Car as a result of mechanical, electrical, computer or software 
breakdowns, failures, faults or breakages.
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. And 
Im satisfied that it was sufficiently drawn to Ms Ws attention in the policy wording for Haven 
to rely on it to decline a claim.
Ms W said she had seen smoke coming from the car and she had called her mechanic who 
had put the fire out. Haven instructed an independent engineer to assess the car. He said 
there were no signs of a fire or a short circuit. He said the engine had seized. Haven said 
this was a mechanical failure and so it was excluded from cover. 
I havent seen any further expert evidence to counter the engineers report. So I think Haven 
reasonably relied on it to decline the claim. I cant say that it did anything wrong in this. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms W £574 more in settlement of her 
claim for the loss of her car. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% simple 
per annum from the date of the initial settlement to the date of final payment. 
If Haven considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms W how much its taken off. It should also give Ms W a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint in part. I require Haven Insurance 
Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman