DRN-3672500
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU Mutual) has voided the insurance policy she took out for her horse on the ground that 
she had made misrepresentations to it when taking out the policy. She has also complained 
about being charged for NFU Mutuals investigation.
What happened
Mrs B bought a horse, which Ill refer to as S, on 5 June 2021. She says S had passed a 
two-stage vetting process and came with a clean bill of health and previous veterinary 
history. He was insured by the previous owner until 11 June 2021. 
Mrs S say that S was unsettled and at around 08:50am on 18 June she booked him in for a 
gastroscopy check on 5 July as her veterinary practice was offering these at a discounted 
price. Mrs B denies that she had any concerns with Ss health when she booked the 
appointment. However the vet has confirmed that S was booked in as Mrs B felt he was 
girthy and resented being groomed. 
At around 09:25 the same day, Mrs B insured S with NFU Mutual. In her application she 
stated that S had no health issues. 
On 2 July 2021, Mrs B contacted the vet and said she was concerned as S objected to 
having his saddle fitted. S was diagnosed as having stage 4 gastric ulcers. Mrs B paid the 
vets bill and says that she was advised by the vet to make a claim on her policy.
Mrs B contacted NFU Mutual and a claim form was sent to the vet on 6 July 2021. NFU 
Mutual asked for invoices and a copy of Ss clinical history. The completed claim form was 
received the following day. Information from the vet wasnt received until18 August.
As Mrs B had contacted the vet on the same day she took out her insurance, NFU 
Mutual appointed loss adjusters to investigate and take statements from Mrs B, the vet 
and Ss saddler. 
Following the investigation, an NFU Mutual Policy Validation Officer (PVO) wrote to Mrs B on 
11 October  to advise that based on all the evidence available she had made a material and 
reckless misrepresentation when applying for her policy as S had a pre-existing condition. 
The PVO confirmed that they believed Mrs B had been reckless rather than deliberately 
trying to deceive it regarding the claim. Her policy was therefore voided from its inception. 
The premiums she paid were reimbursed. NFU Mutual says that Mrs B had never withdrawn 
her claim.  
The PVO also confirmed that certain costs and expenses incurred as part of its investigation 
wouldnt have been incurred had the claim not been made and presented in the way that it 
had been. NFU Mutual is therefore seeking to recover the sum of £858 for the loss adjusters 
investigation. It referred Mrs B to the terms and conditions of her policy under General 
Conditions which state:
Fraud and misrepresentation
If YOU or anyone acting for YOU:
1  makes a claim which is fraudulent and/or intentionally exaggerated and/or 
supported by a fraudulent declaration, statement or other device; and/or
2  intentionally misrepresents, misdescribes or withholds any material fact relevant 
to this insurance;
WE will not pay any part of YOUR claim or any other claim which YOU have made or 
which YOU may make under the POLICY and WE will have the right to:
1 avoid, or at OUR option cancel, the POLICY and all other policies YOU have with 
US without returning any premium that YOU have paid;
2 recover from YOU any amounts that WE have paid in respect of any claim, 
whether such claim was made before or after the fraudulent claim; and
3 refuse any other benefit under the POLICY
I am assuming that NFU Mutual relies upon the second 2 above to reclaim what it has paid 
its loss adjusters.
Mrs B accepts that her claim wont be honoured by NFU Mutual, but she is upset that her 
application has been found to be reckless. She says she was expecting a simple yes or 
no answer when she submitted her claim. Shes also unhappy that shes been asked to 
pay NFU Mutuals investigation costs which she thinks couldve been avoided and she cant 
afford to pay this sum. She wants the investigation costs to be waived. She would also like 
her record cleared so she can obtain insurance in the future. She brought a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigators view was that as NFU Mutual already had information from the vet on 16 
August, that meant the claim wasnt covered and any further questions couldve been asked 
without the need to incur costs. She considered the further costs incurred to validate the 
claim were unnecessary and therefore Mrs B shouldnt be liable to reimburse these.
NFU Mutual didnt agree with our investigators view. It referred to inconsistencies in Mrs Bs 
explanation of events and the evidence that supported its view that Ss condition had pre-
existed the policys inception. Its said that at the point of instructing the loss adjusters to 
investigate it couldnt be certain as to whether a fraud had been committed, and the claim 
hadnt been withdrawn. It also said that the costs it incurred in investigating the claim 
wouldnt have been incurred if a) the claim hadnt been made, b) accurate information had 
been provided by Mrs B when she took out the policy or reported the claim or c) Mrs B had 
withdrawn the claim prior to the appointment of the loss adjusters. 
It asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. It was passed to me to make a 
final decision from this service. I issued a provisional decision as although the ultimate 
outcome I recommended was the same as our investigators, it was for different reasons. 
In response to my provisional decision I received further comments from NFU Mutual and 
from Mrs B which Ill refer to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im confirming my provisional decision and Ill explain why. In my provisional 
decision I stated as follows:Firstly Ill consider whether it was fair and reasonable for NFU Mutual to void Mrs Bs 
policy from inception. Ill then consider NFUs claim against Mrs B for reimbursement of 
its investigation expenses.
The voiding of Mrs Bs policy
Following the submission of Mrs Bs claim, NFU Mutual asked Ss vet for his clinical 
records. These werent provided until 16 August. On 19 August 2021, having reviewed 
the information it had received from the vet, NFU Mutual took the view that it was unable 
to make a decision in respect of the claim under the policy terms with the information it 
had. It therefore appointed loss adjusters to investigate further. I consider that to be 
reasonable. I disagree with our investigator that NFU Mutual had all the information it 
needed after it had received the vets records and that further investigation was 
unnecessary.
Ive seen the report prepared by NFU Mutuals appointed loss adjusters who took 
account of what Mrs B had said about the background to her claim when reporting it, an 
interview it conducted with her, and what Ss vet had reported. The report was provided 
on 8 September 2021 and concluded that Mrs B had misrepresented the first date 
symptoms were noted in order to obtain cover.
The relevant law in cases involving misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2021 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided 
that the misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying representation. For it to be 
a qualifying representation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. The 
remedy available to an insurer depends on whether the misrepresentation was careless, 
reckless, or deliberate.
I consider that its reasonable for NFU Mutual to have relied upon an investigation and a 
report by independent loss adjusters and their conclusion that there had been a reckless 
misrepresentation.
I now need to consider if this was a qualifying misrepresentation, which involves 
considering first whether Mrs B took reasonable care when providing her answer to the 
question asked at inception about Ss health, and then whether this would have made 
any difference to the terms of cover offered.  
I dont consider that Mrs B took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The 
vet has confirmed that on 18 June, just before she took out the policy, S was booked in 
for a gastroscopy check as Mrs B felt he was girthy and resented being groomed. Mrs B 
had also been in touch with Ss previous owners to enquire about his health. This 
suggests that Mrs B had some concerns, although at that stage there was no diagnosis. 
Mrs B shouldnt in these circumstances have confirmed when taking out the policy, that 
S had no conditions or illnesses. Had NFU Mutual been aware of Ss pre-existing 
condition it would not have offered cover on the terms offered, or at all.
 
Im therefore satisfied that Mrs Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under 
CIDRA.
Under CIDRA, if the qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless, the insurer 
can avoid the policy and refuse all claims and need not return any premium paid.If the qualifying misrepresentation is careless, and the insurer wouldnt have provided 
the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it must 
return the premium paid.
NFU Mutual has voided the policy and returned Mrs Ss premium. It has followed the 
course of action dictated by CIDRA for careless misrepresentation. 
My conclusion is that I dont consider that NFU Mutual has acted unfairly by voiding Mrs 
Bs policy from its inception and not paying her claim for Ss treatment. I consider it has 
acted fairly in refunding her premium.
Reimbursement of investigation costs
Turning to the other limb of Mrs Ss complaint, that she reimburse the costs incurred by 
NFU Mutual in conducting an investigation, Im proposing to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
The reason for doing so is that having looked carefully at the terms of Mrs Bs policy, I 
can see nothing within it which in my view gives NFU Mutual a right to recover 
investigation costs. I have referred above to the section headed Fraud and 
misrepresentation which I believe NFU Mutual relies upon to make its claim against Mrs 
B, specifically the words
 We may..recover from YOU any amounts that WE have paid in respect of any claim, 
whether such claim was made before or after the fraudulent claim;
I consider that his wording applies to any payment made by NFU Mutual to a customer 
towards settlement of a claim made by a customer. I dont consider it is intended to 
cover costs incurred by NFU Mutual in investigating a claim. Had it been intended to 
cover such costs it could easily have included wording to say so, such as the inclusion 
of the words or incurred.
I therefore dont consider that its fair or reasonable for NFU Mutual to require Mrs B to 
reimburse its investigation costs.
For the reasons given above, I proposed not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in relation to the 
voiding of her policy by NFU Mutual but I proposed to uphold Mrs Bs complaint in relation to 
the claim by NFU Mutual for reimbursement of its investigation costs and to require it to 
waive its claim.
NFU Mutual responded to my provisional decision and referred me to three previous cases 
considered by this service which it says confirmed that it was entitled to recover reasonable 
costs. 
These cases can be distinguished. Two of those cases related to a different product whose 
policy wording I havent seen, and the third, although it also related to veterinary treatment 
for a horse, referred to the decision in one of the other cases. Their focus was also primarily 
on the reasonableness of NFU Mutuals investigation costs and not on its contractual right to 
recover investigation costs. Having considered those cases Im not persuaded to change my 
view.
I also maintain my view that as worded, the clause that NFU Mutual relies upon is 
insufficiently clear that it covers investigation costs paid to third parties as well as amounts 
paid to the insured as a claim. It is a rule of contractual interpretation that if a clause is unclear or ambiguous it should be construed contra proferentem, that is against the party 
that puts that wording forward.
Mrs Bs response was a request that the policy be reinstated with exclusions or an 
alternative that means she wont have difficulty in obtaining insurance in the future. I 
consider that NFU Mutual didnt act unreasonably in voiding her policy given a finding by an 
independent loss adjuster of reckless misrepresentation. It was acting within the policy terms 
in doing so. I consider it has acted reasonably in refunding Mrs Bs premium when, under 
CIDRA, it wasnt required to do so. I cannot order NFU Mutual to reinstate a policy in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not to upholding Mrs Bs complaint in relation to the 
voiding of her policy by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint in relation to the claim by The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited for reimbursement of its investigation costs and require it 
to waive its claim against Mrs B for these costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman