DRN-4027147
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount which Vitality Life Limited (Vitality) has paid in settlement 
of a claim under his serious illness insurance cover. 
Mr D also complains about Vitalitys handling of his claim. 
What happened
Mr D took out a life and serious illness insurance policy with Vitality in June 2019. The policy 
was sold by an independent broker. 
Unfortunately, in 2021, Mr D experienced a very severe illness and was admitted to hospital. 
Mr D made a claim under his policy with Vitality and was paid 50% of the maximum benefit 
available under his serious illness cover. Vitality said this was because Mr D was entitled to 
a benefit classed as Severity Level C. Mr D disputed this and complained to Vitality, who 
sent him final response letters dated 3 March 2022, 9 March 2022 and 25 March 2022. The 
first of these final response letters addressed Mr Ds complaint about Vitalitys delays up to 
that point and Vitality paid Mr D £300 compensation because it said it had taken longer than 
necessary to assess his claim. The last of these final response letters gave Mr D the 
opportunity to send Vitality additional medical information if he wanted to appeal its decision 
about the claim settlement due to him. 
Mr D and Vitality continued to correspond with each other. Mr D sent Vitality new medical 
evidence to consider, and Vitality subsequently requested further information from Mr Ds 
doctor. On 4 August 2022, Vitality sent Mr D a letter explaining why it thought he didnt 
qualify for anything more than a payment of 50% of the maximum benefit under his policy. 
On 18 October 2022, Vitality sent Mr D a final response letter maintaining its position about 
the claim and offering to pay £50 compensation for its failure to respond to one of Mr Ds 
emails. As Mr D remained unhappy, he brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
Vitality sent Mr D a further final response letter on 19 December 2022. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said she thought the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could only consider Mr Ds complaint as it related to Vitalitys decision 
to pay 50% of the maximum benefit and to Vitalitys delays from 25 March 2022 onwards. 
Our investigator concluded that she didnt think Vitality had acted unfairly or unreasonably by 
refusing to pay 100% of the maximum benefit available but she said she thought Vitality 
should pay £150 compensation  in addition to the £50 offered in its final response letter of 
18 October 2022  for the distress and inconvenience which Mr D had suffered as a result of 
its handling of the claim from 25 March 2022 onwards. 
Vitality accepted our investigators opinion but Mr D didnt, so the complaint has been 
referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear that Mr D has been through such a traumatic and difficult time. Mr Ds 
illness has undoubtedly been life-changing for him, and I wish him the best for the future. 
However, while Im aware this wont be the outcome Mr D was hoping for, I dont think 
Vitality has acted unfairly or unreasonably when settling his claim as it did. Ill explain why.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) say insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. The rules also say 
insurers must handle claims promptly and provide appropriate information to a policyholder 
on the progress of a claim. Ive taken these rules, as well as relevant industry guidance, into 
account when making my final decision about Mr Ds complaint. 
The medical evidence which Ive seen clearly states that Mr D will never be able to return to 
his previous occupation or, indeed, to any occupation which is vaguely similar. And its not in 
dispute that Mr Ds illness has had a severe and debilitating effect on his life. But not every 
claim for a serious illness is covered for a 100% maximum benefit payment under Mr Ds 
insurance policy and the limits of Vitalitys obligations to Mr D are set out in the terms and 
conditions of the contract between them.
Mr Ds policy provides for the payment of a lump sum on the diagnosis of certain, specified 
serious illnesses set out in the policy. The lump sum payable depends on the severity level 
of the illness, as classified by Vitality. One of the serious illnesses listed in Mr Ds policy is 
chronic pancreatitis, which is considered a Severity Level D condition and therefore 
qualifies for a 25% payment of the maximum benefit. I understand Mr Ds condition was 
classified by his treating doctors as being acute and severe, but Vitality has decided the level 
of severity to attribute to pancreatitis and has clearly set this out within the policy terms. Its 
not for me to interfere with Vitalitys decision about what illnesses it is prepared to cover 
and/or what level of benefit it is prepared to pay for such illnesses in return for the premium 
paid for the policy.  
However, when Vitality assessed Mr Ds claim, it said he would instead be entitled to a 50% 
payment of the maximum policy benefit because of his intensive care treatment. Vitality 
therefore paid Mr D the greater of the two benefits which he would have been entitled to 
under the policy at that time. I think this was fair.  
Vitality subsequently assessed Mr Ds claim under the total and permanent disability section 
of his cover. Mr Ds policy schedule says:
Serious Illness Cover
Total & Permanent Disability will be based on Permanent Failure of Functional 
Activity because of your occupational duties (See Plan Provisions for details). 
This doesnt mean that Mr Ds occupational duties are relevant to the assessment of a total 
and permanent disability claim. Instead, it means that, because of the nature of Mr Ds 
occupation when he took out the policy, any claim for total and permanent disability will be 
assessed based on the permanent failure of functional activity. 
In order for Mr D to be entitled to the Severity Level A payment for total and permanent 
disability which he is seeking then, under the terms and conditions of his policy, he would need to be able to demonstrate that he is unable to do at least four work tasks ever again or 
that he is unable to do at least four tasks designed to assess whether he can look after 
himself ever again. These are called functional activity tests. 
The specific details of the functional activity tests, the individual tasks and their relevant 
definitions are set out in Mr Ds policy. The functional activity tests require the policyholder to 
need the help or supervision of another person with each task and be unable to perform the 
task on their own even with the use of special equipment routinely available to help and 
having taken any appropriate prescribed medication. The tasks and definitions reflect those 
set out in industry guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers which is designed, 
amongst other things, to promote clarity in the market. I dont agree with Mr Ds submissions 
that the policy requirements arent clear, or that they are vague and/or unfair.
The medical evidence provided by Mr Ds doctor says Mr D can perform two of the six work 
tasks none of the time, three of the six tasks part of the time and one task all the time. In 
relation to the tasks designed to assess whether Mr D can look after himself, Mr Ds doctor 
has said he needs help to perform four of the six tasks  but Mr D doesnt require full 
assistance for any of them. Im satisfied that its reasonable for Vitality to rely on this 
evidence from a qualified medical professional. This means Mr D hasnt demonstrated that 
he meets the policy criteria for a Severity Level A payment for total and permanent 
disablement. 
I understand Mr D says he can only do some of the tasks for limited periods of time, or a 
limited number of times every day. Neither Vitality, nor I, dispute that Mr Ds life and abilities 
have been severely affected by his illness, but Mr D doesnt meet the criteria outlined in the 
policy for the claim he is seeking to be paid to him. The fact that Mr D interprets what 
functional means differently to how its defined in his policy doesnt mean Vitality has acted 
unfairly, and this isnt a policy which was designed to protect Mr Ds income in the event he 
was unable to work due to an illness. If Mr D disputes any of the information that his doctor 
has provided to Vitality, then this is something hed need to discuss with his doctor directly. 
And, if Mr D wishes to resubmit a new claim for consideration by Vitality in the future based 
on new medical evidence if his condition deteriorates then he would be entitled to do so.  
Overall, Im satisfied that Vitality has paid a claim at the highest severity level which Mr D is 
currently entitled to under his policy, so I wont be directing it to pay anything further in 
relation to the claim settlement. 
Mr D has also commented on the sale of this policy but these arent issues which Vitality was 
responsible for. If Mr D wishes to make a complaint about the sale of the policy, then this 
would need to be directed to the broker who sold him this insurance in the first instance. 
Its not in dispute that Mr D brought his complaint about Vitalitys delays up until 25 March 
2022 to our service outside of the time limits set out by the FCAs Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules (DISP 2.8.2). But Ive considered how Vitality handled Mr Ds claim since that 
date and I dont think it did so in line with industry rules. I think Vitality could have been 
clearer in explaining to Mr D that his ability to perform his occupation wasnt relevant to his 
claim, thereby avoiding the inconvenience which Mr D was put to in obtaining a letter from 
his consultant which didnt change Vitalitys decision about his claim. I think there were 
delays by Vitality in reviewing the medical questionnaire it received in June 2022 and I also 
think Mr D experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of having to chase Vitality for 
responses to his emails, at what was already a very difficult time for him. Overall, I think a 
total payment of £200 (which includes the £50 already offered by Vitality to Mr D in October 
2022) is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact of the situation on Mr D. Putting things right
Vitality Life Limited must put things right by paying Mr D a total of £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced since 25 March 2022. This includes the £50 
compensation which Vitality already offered to pay Mr V in October 2022. 
Vitality Life Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days on which we tell it Mr D 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint against Vitality Life Limited in part 
and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman