DRN-3517234
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the advice she says she received in late 2014 and early 2015 to 
transfer a personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Her transfer 
proceeds were invested in an unregulated investment scheme that has since failed. Mrs B 
says the advice to transfer wasnt suitable because the proposed investment was too high 
risk for her. She holds Wellington Court Financial Services Limited responsible.
What happened
In 2015, Mrs B switched the benefits she had in a personal pension to The Orbis SIPP 
administered by Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC). The funds were then 
invested in Dolphin Capital. She now believes she was advised to transfer her pension by 
Wellington Court.
Mrs B complained to Wellington Court in 2020. She said, in brief, that Wellington Courts 
advice had been negligent because the investment in Dolphin Capital was unregulated and 
too high risk for her. The investment now looks to have little value. Mrs B says Wellington 
Court is responsible for her loss. Wellington Court didnt respond so Mrs B referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator said that there was evidence demonstrating that Wellington Court was 
involved in the transfer of Mrs Bs pension to the Orbis SIPP, including a letter from a Mr P 
at Wellington Court which referred to Mrs B as his client. She thought this was enough 
evidence to show Wellington Court was responsible for Mr Bs transfer and, therefore, that 
this was a complaint that we could look at.
Wellington Court said it did not give Mrs B any advice and Mrs B has never been its 
customer. It said any paperwork linking Mrs B to Wellington Court is fraudulent and denies 
that it has any responsibility for the complaint. So, the matter was passed to me for a 
decision.
On 18 May 2022, I issued a provisional decision in which I outlined in detail the evidence 
that was available to me. I repeat what I said here.
Review of Evidence
1. Documents provided by Mrs B and GMTC
The following were provided by Mrs B and GMTC:
i) An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to 
the Orbis SIPP on Mrs Bs behalf. The letter said it was enclosing an application 
for the SIPP and its investment instructions. It was date-stamped as being 
received by the PAN Group (administrators and trustees of the SIPP) on26 
January 2015. The letter is signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court. The 
signature is indecipherable. The letter specified that Mrs B would be 
remunerating Mr P directly so the Adviser Remuneration Form hadnt been 
included.
ii) The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes of 
the various documents (such as a SIPP application form and transfer discharge 
form) that the adviser had to check had been provided for the transfer to proceed. 
Like the covering letter, this was signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court 
rather than by Mr P himself. The signature is indecipherable but looks to be the 
same as the one on the covering letter. An incorrect Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) reference number was also provided  the number used was actually 
Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. The form was signed on 
20 January 2015.
iii) The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mrs B on 18 December 2014.
iv) The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page 
document outlining the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mrs B on 18 
December 2014.
v) An Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This set out the details of Mrs 
Bs transfer, including the policy number of the pension she was transferring from 
and its transfer value. This was signed by Mrs B on 18 December 2014.
vi) A GMTC New Business Sign Off Sheet completed by a representative of GMTC 
on 26 February 2015. This showed the processes followed  it noted that the sale 
of the SIPP was advised.
vii)  A SIPP bank account statement dated 5 May 2020 showing the account 
transactions since the SIPP was opened on 19 February 2015. The statement 
shows Mrs Bs personal pension funds were transferred on 16 March 2015. Mrs 
B then purchased a 5 Year Loan Note in Dolphin Capital on 14 April 2015, 
paying £29,882. And it also shows Mrs B received dividend income of £1,494.10 
on the loan note every six months from October 2015 to April 2019.
2. Mrs Bs recollections
Mrs B says that she was cold-called by an introducer to discuss the possibility of 
investing her pension funds in assets that would produce higher returns. She said 
another introducer obtained her permission to contact her former pension provider 
for information about her pension. Mrs B doesnt recall meeting or speaking to Mr P 
or anyone else from Wellington Court, but understands from the paperwork 
completed that it was Wellington Court that arranged the transfer and her investment 
in Dolphin Capital.
3. Information from Mrs Bs previous pension provider
Mrs Bs previous pension provider  P  sent us information to assist with our 
investigations. This information shows that Mrs Bs pension was mostly invested in a 
with-profits fund. It also showed that in 2015, a regulated financial adviser  J  was 
sent confirmation when the funds were transferred to the SIPP. When questioned, P 
explained that J had been associated with Mrs Bs personal pension since 2005. P 
told us it had sent the confirmation to it because Mrs B hadnt transferred the agency 
of her pension to the introducer.
4. Documents from Wellington CourtWellington Court hasnt provided any documents in relation to Mrs Bs transfer 
because it says it didnt advise Mrs B and that Mrs B has never been a client of 
Wellington Court.
Wellington Court has, however, said (in relation to a different complaint) that it did 
some consultancy work on behalf of GMTC in relation to the transfer of pensions into 
the Orbis SIPP. It says the work was limited to checking files to ensure there were no 
transfers of safeguarded benefits into the SIPP because GMTC didnt want to receive 
that type of transfer. It has also stated that all payments it received from GMTC were 
for administrative consultancy work carried out by Mr P and nothing else.
Wellington Court added that its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
contacted it in 2016 in relation to some GMTC pension cases which led to it meeting 
with the FCA on 10 August 2016. The attendees at that meeting were Mr P from 
Wellington Court and two representatives from the FCA. It says evidence of the 
administrative work carried out by Mr P was produced at the meeting with the FCA. 
Wellington Court provided some notes relating to the meeting but I havent included 
the notes here as ultimately they are not material to the outcome of this complaint.
We asked Wellington Court to provide us with a copy of the consultancy agreement it 
had with GMTC and further details about its work  for instance the fees it earned  
but it hasnt done so. Wellington Court says further details about the meeting with the 
FCA and the evidence provided in relation to the work carried out by Mr P can be 
provided by the FCA.
5. Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mrs B
Mrs B transferred £30,518.01 from her personal pension to the Orbis SIPP on 16 
March 2015. In other complaints Ive seen that have very similar circumstances to 
Mrs Bs complaint, customers were charged an advice fee of 1% of the transfer 
value, up to a maximum of £800, which was deducted directly from the customers 
SIPP account and paid to a GMTC holding account. The advice fees were then 
transferred in bulk payments to a bank account held by Wellington Court - I will set 
out in detail what we know about this below.
However, in Mrs Bs case no advice fee was deducted from her SIPP account 
following the transfer of her funds. This is explained by the covering letter provided 
by Mr P of Wellington Court, who stated that Mrs B would be remunerating him 
directly.
The investigator asked Mrs B if she could provide evidence of the payment made to 
Mr P or Wellington Court, but she was unable to do so and couldnt recall making 
such a payment. Mrs B was also asked whether she remembered or could evidence 
making a payment to anyone else, for example, either of the introducers, but Mrs B 
didnt recall making a payment to anyone else either. She said she thought that the 
fee was going to be deducted from the investment directly.6. Evidence from similar cases
As Ive said above, I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about 
Wellington Court which have very similar features to Mrs Bs case. Whilst Im 
deciding here on whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mrs 
Bs case, for context I think its reasonable to consider the evidence from these other 
cases alongside the evidence that has been collected in relation to Mrs Bs case. 
Specifically:
i) Paperwork from other complaints show a number of introducer firms were 
involved in these transfers.
ii) The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed.
iii) Other payments to Wellington Court
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 
payments representing 1% of the sums transferred by customers to GMTC 
were made to the same Wellington Court bank account in relation to many 
other individuals, including (but not necessarily limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies 
(for 22 individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this 
payment relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to 
appear on Wellington Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES.
£9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was ORBIS CLIENT FEES.
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for 
eight individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the 
number of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference 
that was to appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement 
was GM IFA FEES.
£6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the 
number of individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference 
that was to appear (and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement 
was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 
31 individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on 
Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in other cases similar to Mrs Bs 
case. Its not necessarily comprehensive. Furthermore, it appears that fees 
were also paid directly to Mr P of Wellington Court, as is the case here, and in 
another complaint Ive seen. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at 
least £87,000 was paid to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation 
to over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that 
payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the 
payments being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those 
payments being received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 
payment on 25 August 2015 and the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August 2015. 
This is because Wellington Court has only provided us with heavily redacted 
bank statements. I see no plausible reason why GMTCs payments wouldnt 
have all reached Wellington Court. So, Ill proceed on that basis, particularly 
as Wellington Court has already had the opportunity to dispute this evidence 
in relation to other cases in which decisions have been issued.
What did I conclude in my provisional decision?
In my provisional decision, I acknowledged that there were a number of question marks in 
relation to Wellington Courts involvement in the transfers. Most notably there is the absence 
of evidence to show there was any direct contact between Mrs B (and others like her) and 
Wellington Court, a lack of the usual paperwork one would expect to find if advice had been 
given (a fact-find, suitability report and so on), unexplained errors in the paperwork that did 
exist and no letters or emails between GMTC and Wellington Court in relation to the transfer 
of Mrs Bs pension (and other pensions).
However, I went on to conclude that Wellington Court had most likely been paid a 1% 
advisory fee in relation to Mrs Bs transfer and many other transfers. I came to this 
conclusion because the documentary evidence showed Mrs B had agreed to pay Wellington 
Court an advisory fee in relation to the Orbis SIPP and the investment intended to be held in 
the SIPP. I thought the documentary evidence relating to other customers persuasively 
showed that the 1% fees collected from individuals were paid to Wellington Court  I didnt 
think it made a difference that we couldnt trace the fee paid in Mrs Bs case. The fees were, 
in aggregate, substantial. Because Wellington Court didnt query them at the time, and didnt 
provide a persuasive argument for why it didnt query them at the time, I concluded that the 
fees werent fraudulent  as Wellington Court had argued  but were in line with what it was 
expecting for its involvement in the transfers in question. I therefore provisionally concluded 
that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory business relating to the transfer of pensions 
 including Mrs Bs pension  to the Orbis SIPP. I went on to provisionally conclude that Mrs Bs complaint was in the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. I was satisfied that Mrs B was an eligible complainant, the 
activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK, Wellington Court is a 
regulated business and Mrs B brought her complaint within the relevant time limits. I was 
also satisfied that the activities complained about fall within our jurisdiction because they 
relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising on and arranging 
pensions and investments.
With regards to the merits of Mrs Bs complaint, I noted Wellington Court didnt appear to 
have done anything in return for the advice fee Mrs B had agreed to pay in relation to her 
transfer. I didnt comment on whether this was deliberate on Wellington Courts part  that is, 
it knew it had to provide advice but chose not to; or whether it was an oversight on its part  
that is, it didnt realise it should have provided advice. I didnt make a finding on this because 
the key point was whether the transfer was suitable.
And on this point, I was satisfied that the transfer wasnt suitable because Mrs B ended up 
investing in Dolphin Capital, which was a non-mainstream, high risk, unregulated 
investment. I didnt think this investment was suitable for Mrs B. I also didnt think Mrs B 
would have needed to transfer her pension to a SIPP, given the costs involved in doing so. 
All things considered, therefore, I didnt think the transfer was suitable for her.
I provisionally upheld Mrs Bs complaint and set out what I thought Wellington Court should 
do to put things right.
I invited both parties to respond. Mrs B accepted the provisional decision and didnt have 
anything to add.
Wellington Court didnt respond. However, in response to complaints similar to Mrs Bs, it 
has said we had not given Wellington Court a fair and open hearing nor had we disclosed all 
of the evidence. It said the conclusions reached on decisions issued were irrational and not 
supported by the evidence. To avoid further misunderstanding, Wellington Court proposed a 
face-to-face meeting with our service and the FCA. It asked whether we had received a copy 
of the investigation report when the FCA visited Mr P in 2016.
Wellington Court also said responsibility lies with GMTC and its associates (specifically
unregulated firms). It says it is obvious that GMTC, and its associates, were running a
scam and are now involved in a cover-up. It says any paperwork that links Wellington Court
to the transfers is fraudulent, including any paperwork that looks to have originated from
Wellington Court  which it says has been cloned. And it says GMTC being in administration
should speak for itself. It added that the pensions regulator is responsible for looking into 
GMTCs actions and asked whether our service had approached it for any information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I concluded that Wellington Court was engaged in advisory 
business relating to the transfer of pensions to the Orbis SIPP, which included the transfer of 
Mrs Bs pension. I also concluded that Wellington Courts actions were not consistent with it 
being the victim of fraudulent activity.
For this reason I concluded that Mrs Bs complaint fell within this services jurisdiction. And 
I upheld Mrs Bs complaint on the grounds that the advice to transfer her existing pension to 
a SIPP and invest in Dolphin Capital wasnt suitable for her.Mrs B accepted my findings I made in my provisional decision but Wellington Court didnt 
respond. So, there isnt any new evidence for me to consider. 
Nevertheless, Ive carefully considered everything submitted again. And I accept that some
of the transfer paperwork looks unusual. For instance, the letter that was sent to GMTC
enclosing Mrs Bs transfer papers was undated and signed on behalf of Mr P from 
Wellington Court rather than by Mr P himself. The signature on that letter is indecipherable. 
Likewise, the Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist was signed on Mr Ps behalf rather 
than by Mr P himself. The signature is again indecipherable (but looks to be the same as the 
one on the covering letter) and an incorrect FCA reference number was also provided. But 
despite this, I think the evidence against Wellington Court here is stronger. And as such, 
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, which 
I summarise again as follows:
Theres documentary evidence to show Mrs B  and many others, as outlined above 
 signed up for advice from Wellington Court and that a 1% fee for that advice was 
most likely paid to Wellington Court.
The 1% fees that were paid to Wellington Court were, in aggregate, sizeable but it 
doesnt appear to have queried any of them, suggesting it was expecting to receive 
those fees. 
By its own admission, Wellington Court undertook some work in relation to the 
transfer of a number of pensions to the Orbis SIPP. It told us Mr P was involved in 
this but his role was restricted to checking whether the customers pensions included 
safeguarded benefits.
Wellington Courts consultancy work shows there was a working relationship 
between the parties at the time. It wouldnt be a stretch to say that this could have led 
to Wellington Court doing other work on the transfers, potentially with the minimum of 
paperwork  especially as both organisations were based in the same town when the 
transfers (Mrs Bs included) were taking place and Mr P apparently spent time in 
GMTCs offices. 
The consultancy work could be looked at in a different light in so far as it could 
explain why Wellington Court overlooked payments from GMTC. However, 
Wellington Court hasnt provided us with the agreement it signed with GMTC for its 
consultancy work, or the amounts it was paid or the dates the payments were made 
(or indeed if there was more than one payment) so its difficult to say its consultancy 
work would reasonably have explained why it didnt query all the income it was 
receiving from GMTC.
Wellington Court hasnt kept any documents relating to its consultancy work with 
GMTC even though it wasnt a particularly long time ago.
Wellington Court hasnt provided any evidence of the work carried out by Mr P for 
GMTC. In the absence of such evidence, Wellington Court hasnt shown that its role 
in Mrs Bs pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court has said it was a victim of fraud. Its a serious allegation and yet 
Wellington Court hasnt (based on the available evidence) reported its concerns to 
the appropriate authorities (the police for instance) or even done much to investigate 
the matter itself beyond telling us, and many complainants, that it wasnt involved. So 
its difficult to give Wellington Courts allegations too much credence given its own 
lack of action on the alleged fraud.It is not uncommon for an introducer to drive the process of transferring a pension 
with the intention of investing in a particular scheme. And introducers often carry out 
the majority of the fact-finding directly with the customer before involving a regulated 
adviser to complete the process. In some instances, customers will not meet with or 
speak to the firm providing the advice. So I dont think that those customers who say 
they didnt speak to a representative of Wellington Court, or who were unaware of its 
involvement (as Mrs B has said here), is particularly unusual.
In order to proceed with the transfer, GMTC needed to have confidence that advice 
had been given to Mrs B. The paperwork submitted, such as the covering letter from 
Wellington Court, confirmed Mrs B had appointed Wellington Court to provide her 
with advice. And GMTCs New Business Sign Off Sheet stated Mrs B had been 
advised on the transfer of her pension. So, I think the transfer proceeded on the 
basis that Wellington Court had advised Mrs B to do so.
Questioning GMTCs role in what happened is reasonable. But it doesnt necessarily 
follow from this that GMTC was acting fraudulently or that Wellington Court wasnt 
involved. In order to perpetrate the fraud that Wellington Court has alleged, GMTC 
would have been reliant on Wellington Court not noticing a series of unsolicited, but 
substantial, payments into its bank account over an extended period and on those 
people that transferred (of which there many dozens) not questioning Wellington 
Court at any point. I dont think it likely that GMTC would have taken its chances in 
this way unless, of course, it had some sort of understanding with Wellington Court  
in which case Wellington Courts involvement is still key to what happened.
Whatever the extent of Wellington Courts contact with Mrs B, it was still nonetheless 
engaged in an advisory capacity in relation to her transfer  and the transfer of many 
other pensions too. The absence of any of the usual paperwork one would expect 
from an advice process, and the absence of substantive testimony about meetings 
with Wellington Court, doesnt change any of this. It just means Wellington Court 
didnt properly advise Mrs B, and others, despite being paid to do so.
Jurisdiction
Mrs B complained about a regulated activity, as advising someone to set up a SIPP 
and to transfer rights in an existing personal pension to that SIPP is a regulated 
activity. Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about Mrs Bs 
transfer and investment in Dolphin Capital. In short, what Wellington Court did here 
constituted making arrangements under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001.
Mrs B is an eligible complainant. Mrs B most likely dealt with an introducer and she 
signed documents on 18 December 2014 agreeing to transfer her pension. It appears 
the paperwork was then passed on to Wellington Court. Im persuaded by this 
because Mr P, on behalf of Wellington Court, sent Mrs Bs paperwork to GMTC on 
Wellington Court headed paper. Someone signed this on Mr Ps behalf on 
20 January 2015. Mr P referred to Mrs B as his client and asked GMTC to establish 
the SIPP and carry out our investment instructions. I think this shows the investment 
instructions came from Wellington Court. The paperwork also says that Mrs B would 
be paying Wellington Court, via Mr P, directly.
So, Mrs B is Wellington Courts customer as she signed up for advice and she most 
likely paid for advice. Wellington Court was most likely sent, and accepted, payment 
for that advice. And that advice  or appearance of advice  was critical to Mrs B 
transferring and investing in the way she did. So Im satisfied there is a customer relationship here. And even if Mrs B hadnt paid a fee to Wellington Court for the 
advice, that doesnt have an impact on the customer relationship. I think there was 
enough activity here to demonstrate a customer relationship even before payment 
was made. I also havent seen anything in the regulators rules that says a customer 
relationship is only established upon the payment of a fee.
I acknowledge that Wellington Court may well have undertaken some consultancy 
work for GMTC, which may have given rise to a business-to-business relationship. 
But, it hasnt provided enough information to establish what the exact nature of its 
relationship with GMTC was. And, for the reasons given above, there is a relationship 
between the complainant, Mrs B, and Wellington Court anyway regardless of any 
consultancy arrangement that may have been in place.
The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK; 
Wellington Court is a regulated business and Mrs B brought her complaint to us 
within the relevant time limits. So, with all of this above in mind, Im satisfied that this 
is a case I can consider.
The merits of Mrs Bs complaint
The transfers to the Orbis SIPP appear to have been initiated by introducers who 
sourced potential clients and did much of the work in terms of getting clients into a 
position to transfer. And then in order to progress the transfer, GMTC required the 
involvement of an advisory firm. Wellington Court fulfilled that role.
Theres a lack of paperwork to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in return 
for its advice fee. I dont know if this was due to an oversight on its part  that is, it 
didnt fully understand what it should have done given the regulations in place at the 
time  or whether it knew its actions were negligent. Either way, it seems Wellington 
Courts involvement was little more than window dressing, providing a veneer of 
advice to satisfy GMTC in return for a 1% fee on a large number of transfers.
There isnt any detailed documentary evidence to show what Mrs Bs financial needs 
and circumstances were at the time. But, Im satisfied the transaction wasnt suitable 
for Mrs B. I say this because Dolphin Capital was a non-mainstream, high risk, 
unregulated investment. Mrs B doesnt appear to have had the degree of investment 
knowledge or risk appetite such an investment would have required. And it also looks 
like she allocated all of her pension savings to that investment, which strikes me as 
being an unsuitable strategy even for the most knowledgeable and least risk averse 
investors. Its also not apparent to me from the available evidence why Mrs B needed 
to transfer her existing pension to a SIPP, especially given the costs involved in 
doing so. All things considered, therefore, I dont think the transfer was suitable.
Nevertheless, I think Mrs B had some interest in reviewing her investment strategy 
because she was open to a transfer in the first place. As no attitude to risk 
assessment was carried out by Wellington Court, we asked for information from 
Mrs Bs previous pension provider in order to see how her pension assets were 
previously invested. This would give some insight into Mrs Bs risk profile. This 
information showed that Mrs Bs pension was invested almost exclusively in a with-
profits fund, which in my view, would indicate a cautious attitude to risk. Mrs B tells 
us this was her only pension, so she had very little capacity for loss. With this in 
mind, I think Mrs B most likely had a cautious attitude to risk. My approach to 
compensation, which is set out below, reflects these considerations.Wellington Courts other comments
Wellington Court has made a number of arguments in response to other similar cases. 
Where applicable, Ive addressed some of those arguments above. I address the remaining 
arguments below.
Wellington Court has often said we have not made a full disclosure of the evidence. But it 
hasnt at any point said exactly what evidence hasnt been shared, which makes responding 
difficult. Wellington Court was sent the evidence we received from GMTC relating to Mrs Bs 
pension transfer following my provisional decision. My provisional decision also set out, in 
detail, the evidence Id relied on in this case and the evidence Id seen and taken into 
account on other cases like Mrs Bs. Wellington Court has also seen the transfer paperwork 
for numerous other complainants where decisions have been issued. Indeed, its case relies 
heavily on its views about the legitimacy of that paperwork  a message it repeats in relation 
to Mrs Bs complaint. Given all the above, Im satisfied Wellington Court has been made 
aware of, and has had the opportunity to respond to, all the evidence Ive relied upon. 
Wellington Court has also said we have not obtained evidence of the introducers 
involvement. It also says that the decisions made are irrational and not supported by the 
evidence. Our investigator asked Mrs B for her recollections from the time of the advice, 
which I set out in my provisional decision and I have repeated above. So, Im satisfied that 
Wellington Court is already aware of what Mrs B recalls about the introducers involvement. 
And in any event, Ive taken into account that an introducer was involved in the transfer of 
Mrs Bs pension. But irrespective of this, and as I have set out in detail with reference to the 
relevant evidence, Im satisfied that there was an advisory relationship between Wellington 
Court and Mrs B and that Mrs Bs pension was only transferred to the SIPP because of 
Wellington Courts involvement.
Wellington Court maintains that it is the victim of fraud and that GMTC was running a scam. 
In response, I come back to what Ive said previously which is that Wellington Court received
substantial payments from GMTC in relation to a large number of transfers. If Wellington
Court had been the victim of fraudulent activity, I would have expected it to have queried
these payments at the time, given they were substantial and, in Wellington Courts view,
unexpected. The source of those payments was clear too  GMTC  so I dont see any
practical reason why it wouldnt have been able to raise the issue with GMTC (or even the
police). The fact that it didnt do so leads me to conclude the payments werent fraudulent
but were, instead, in line with what Wellington Court was expecting to be paid for its
involvement in the transfers.
Furthermore, its also worth noting that victims of scams wouldnt usually receive tens of
thousands of pounds from the alleged scammer  and there appears to be little doubt that
Wellington Court did receive those sorts of sums from the business it claims is behind the
scam.
Wellington Court says our service has failed to investigate GMTC or liaise with the pensions 
regulator about GMTCs role in the transfers. As my remit here is to consider Mrs Bs 
complaint against Wellington Court, I wont be investigating GMTCs due diligence or 
conducting a broader investigation into GMTC. Similarly, it is for Wellington Court, rather 
than the Financial Ombudsman Service, to report individuals and organisations to the police 
if it thinks doing so is warranted.
Wellington Court seems to suggest that a report into the work carried out by Mr P for GMTC 
can be obtained from the FCA. But, as I said in my provisional decision, it is for Wellington 
Court to provide us with evidence in support of its position. Wellington Court was invited to 
provide me with this evidence so that I could consider it. But it has not sent me a copy of this report. And in the absence of such evidence, I dont think Wellington Court has shown that 
its role in Mrs Bs pension transfer was limited to providing a checking service for GMTC.
Wellington Court also asked for a meeting with us and the FCA in order to resolve this 
matter. But Mrs B has asked our service to consider her complaint against Wellington Court 
and Im satisfied I can come to a fair and reasonable decision on her complaint based on the 
evidence Ive outlined. Wellington Court has had ample opportunity to provide any evidence 
it has in support of its position, and indeed it has had several years to investigate the matter 
since it was first brought to its attention in 2019. I dont think the matter, by which I assume 
Wellington Court means all of the cases that have been submitted against it, can be resolved 
through a meeting with our service and the FCA. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs B should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I think Mrs B would have remained 
with her previous provider. However, given she was interested in reviewing her pension, I 
think its likely she wouldve made changes to the way it was invested if suitable advice had 
been given to her. So, Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Wellington Court do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mrs B's pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs B's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a 
payment of tax to HMRC, so Mrs B wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after 
compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs B's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mrs B would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.Pay Mrs B £400 for the distress caused by the loss she suffered as a result of the 
advice.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. Wellington Court should 
give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mrs B asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Orbis SIPP Still exists For half the Date of Date of my 8% simple per
but illiquid investment: investment final decision year from final
FTSE UK Private decision to
Investors Income settlement (if
Total Return not settled
Index; for the within 28 days
other half: of the business
average rate from receiving the
fixed rate bonds complainant's
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Wellington Court should take ownership of the illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Wellington Court pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated.
If Wellington Court is unable to purchase the portfolio the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Wellington Court may require that Mrs B provides an 
undertaking to pay Wellington Court any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Wellington Court will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Wellington Court should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate 
bonds as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the 
end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually 
compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mrs B paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Wellington Court totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine 
the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
The Orbis SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the Orbis SIPP to be 
closed and further fees that are charged to be prevented, those investments need to be 
removed. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Wellington Court taking over the 
investment, or this is something that Mrs B can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont 
know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Wellington 
Court is unable to purchase the investment, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair 
that it pays Mrs B an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees 
(calculated using the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable 
period for the parties to arrange for the Orbis SIPP to be closed.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from 
investments suited to her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Wellington Court Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs B 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman