DRN-3711401
The complaint
Mr S has complained Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance, didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claims under The Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
Mr S is represented by a third party. I will refer to only him throughout for ease.
What happened
After making use of a limited trial membership in 2010, Mr S and his wife bought timeshare 
points from the supplier in question (D) in October 2011. This was funded in part by a credit 
agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) for £5,365. Mr S undertook to pay just 
under £90 a month for ten years.
For a two-year period after that they took 11 weeks holiday across six of Ds resorts. Mr S 
has a long-term health issue and terminated his arrangement with D in June 2013.
In July 2020 Mr S submitted claims under section 140a of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
that the product in question had been misrepresented and that he was subject to an unfair 
relationship. BPF didnt believe these claims had any validity so Mr S brought his complaint 
to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by both Mr S and BPF. She didnt think D 
had treated Mr S unfairly or misrepresented the product to him.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 22 December 2022 as I considered additional issues to 
our investigator. I didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S submitted further comments. These:
stressed his vulnerability;
confirmed his belief that promises were made that werent kept;
reiterated his view that the sales event was run along unfair principles; and
repeated comments that had been made previously.
BPF had no further comments to make.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ive 
considered the submission made on Mr Ss behalf in response to the provisional decision. 
By and large all the points raised were covered in previous submissions and I have referred 
to the relevant issues below. 
Its worth stating upfront that Im aware Mr Ss representative is also pursuing a complaint 
against another credit provider related to Mr Ss subsequent purchase of a timeshare. It 
seems that a good deal of the submission made on his behalf including the most recent 
handwritten submission relates to that complaint rather than this one. The response to the 
provisional decision also covers aspects more relevant to the other complaint as well.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances. 
I also take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision.
Section 140a of the Consumer Credit Act allows a court to determine whether an unfair 
relationship exists between the creditor (BPF in this case) and the debtor (Mr S) because of 
any of the terms of the related credit agreement; the way the creditor has enforced their 
rights under the agreement; or any other thing done by (or on behalf of) the creditor before 
or after the making of the credit agreement. 
Mr S paid for his timeshare points with D using a fixed-sum credit agreement with BPF. Its 
worth clarifying only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr S 
and BPF was unfair for the purpose of Section 140a. But, as its relevant law, I have to 
consider it if it applies to the credit agreement taken out in 2011. 
Was Mr S subject to an unfair relationship with BPF?
The main aspect of Mr Ss claim is that he was treated unfairly under section 140a of the 
Consumer Credit Act. Hes told us he felt the sale was conducted in a high-pressured 
environment and lasted over seven hours.
He specifically believes that:
Payment was taken within the cooling-off period;
He wasnt given any key pre-contractual information;
The timeshare points were described as an investment; and
He wasnt informed of his rights to cancel the transaction. 
Its certainly true that in any financial relationship between a debtor and creditor, the creditor 
holds a generally dominant position. However that by itself doesnt make the relationship 
between the two parties unfair.
I know Mr S is suffering from long-term ill health. This is relevant as his characteristics along 
with his circumstances form part of my assessment whether there was an unfair relationship. 
Mr S complained about D not having accommodation suitable for his needs available. It may well be the case that Mr S may have had fewer properties to choose from. But, given 
everything thats been said and/or provided on this issue, the fact that he felt able and willing 
to take 11 weeks of holidays across six different resorts in a two-year period doesnt 
persuade me that the product was so unsuitable for him that his relationship with BPF was 
rendered unfair as a result. Im aware his representative disagrees but I find the number of 
holidays taken is convincing evidence that this product wasnt completely unsuitable.
In Mr Ss case, I have reviewed the contractual terms and whether the actions of D would 
lead a court to find the relationship was unfair. Im not persuaded a court would on this 
occasion.
I note that Mr S states that payment was taken within the cooling-off period, but Ive seen no 
other evidence to back this up. In fact the purchase agreement was signed by Mr S and his 
wife on 1 October 2011. The loan agreement is then signed and dated 11 October 2011. 
Documents provided by Mr Ss representative indicate the loan wasnt drawn down until 
25 October.
BPF were able to provide copies of the timeshare and credit agreement documentation. 
These clearly show Mr and Mrs Ss signatures on pre-contractual key information. Page 3 of 
this documentation covers their right of withdrawal to the contract. This page clearly holds 
Mr and Mrs Ss signatures. The documentation states Mr S noted the purchase of the 
timeshare points should not be considered as an investment. The allegation that the 
timeshare points were described as an investment is therefore difficult to square with this 
disclaimer. Ive also not seen any convincing testimony to back up Mr Ss belief this is what 
he was told.
I note from Mr Ss history that he had attended a previous sale presentation by D when he 
bought a trial membership. Ive not seen any evidence what that involved. I can see from his 
recollection that the later session may have lasted as much as seven hours. However I 
believe  from my experience of knowing how these presentations were conducted  there 
would have been most likely refreshments provided. Ive also not seen any suggestion that 
Mr S couldnt have left if he had wished to.
The evidence provided to us shows Mr S was informed of his rights to cancel. I acknowledge 
the possibility that the information provision may not have been good enough. However I 
cant see any evidence of detriment given the vague and generic nature of the allegation in 
question along with the facts and circumstances of this complaint. Im satisfied the evidence 
shows there was no unfair relationship.
I dont think the fact that BPF might have paid the supplier commission was incompatible 
with its role in the transaction. D wasnt acting as Mr Ss agent but as the supplier of 
contractual rights they obtained under the purchase agreement. And, in relation to the loan, 
based on what Ive seen so far, it doesnt look like it was Ds role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation or to give Mr S advice or information on that basis. Whats 
more, as I understand from the services discussions with BPF, the typical amounts of 
commission paid by them to suppliers (like D) were unlikely to be much more than 10%. 
On that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find that the non-disclosure and 
payment of commission created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 140a 
given the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall I think BPF acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ss claim under section 140a. For that reason I 
wont be asking BPF to do anything to put things right in this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman