DRN-3789841
The complaint
Mr H complains that Policy Services Limited (PSL) have taken commission payments from 
his pension policy but provided no ongoing advice or service.
What happened
Mr H was given financial advice on a pension transfer around 2010 by an adviser that I will 
refer to as Firm A. That advice was paid for by commission from the pension product 
provider.
In 2014 the trail commission being paid by Mr Hs pension to Firm A was novated  transfer 
of an existing contract  to PSL. PSL continued to receive that commission until Mr H 
cancelled it in 2019. Mr H complained to PSL, explaining that he was unaware that it was 
receiving commission payments. He said it had never been in contact with him or provided 
him with any service for those payments.
Our investigator looked into what happened. And didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She 
explained that the commission that was being paid related to an agreement that was in place 
before the retail distribution review (RDR). And that PSL hadnt done anything wrong in 
receiving the ongoing commission after novation.
Mr H disagreed and asked for the matter to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
In this complaint Im only considering whether PSL are responsible for any failings. I 
say this because Mr H explains that he never agreed to ongoing trail commission as 
part of the original advice. But that is not an activity that PSL are responsible for.
The commission payments were set up on Mr Hs policy before the changes brought 
about by the RDR in 2012. The regulator decided not to retrospectively apply those 
changes. That meant that existing commission arrangements were allowed to 
continue.
That also meant that commission payment could be novated. Which is what 
happened in 2014, when the contract was transferred from Firm A to PSL. This 
means that PSL were contractually entitled to receive the commission. 
PSL were not specifically required to contact Mr H at the point novation occurred. 
PSL explain that it thought that Firm A had contacted all of its customers to inform 
them. And PSLs correspondence from the time indicates that was, in fact, its 
understanding.
So PSL didnt contact Mr H. It entered into no agreement with him for the provision of 
ongoing services or reviews. So I dont think that it did anything wrong in not 
providing an ongoing service for Mr H.
Ive considered the regulatory requirements at the time the novation occurred:
Mr H asked that I specifically comment on COBS 6.1.9. In 2014 that required a firm 
to provide a retail client with information on costs and charges of services. But PSL 
didnt provide Mr H with any services. And he didnt fit the definition of a client. So 
COBS 6.1.9 wasnt relevant to what happened when the commission payments 
novated.
COBS 6.1A.4A R (2) at the time specifically allowed a firm to enter into an 
arrangement where the right to receive commission is transferred. So what happened 
was permitted within the regulators rules.
COBS 6.1A.4B R was a provision of the rules that related to requirements on a firm 
when re-registering commission. But this rule related to circumstances where a client 
chose to become a client of a new firm. Which was not the case in this instance. So 
placed no obligation on PSL to set out charges to Mr H. 
I understand that Mr H will be disappointed that, for similar reasons to our investigator, Im 
not upholding his complaint. But I cannot find any failing in the way that PSL treated Mr H. 
For this reason, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Policy Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman