DRN-3986468
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Phoenix Life Limited is unfairly intending to apply a 45% special lump 
sum death benefits (SLSDB) charge to pension savings held by her late husband.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought part of the complaint should be upheld, and what Phoenix needed to do in 
order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, 
for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts 
from it below. In my decision I said;
The late Mr H held pension savings with Phoenix. Mr H sadly passed away in
September 2021. At that time he was aged 77 but had not taken any of the pension 
benefits he held with Phoenix.
Shortly after Mr Hs death, Mrs H got in contact with Phoenix and asked to be sent 
the forms she needed to complete in order to claim Mr Hs pension benefits. Phoenix 
accepts that it didnt respond to that request as quickly as it should have, only 
sending the forms to Mrs H around six weeks later. At that time it confirmed that the 
benefits being paid would be subject to a taxation charge amounting to 45% of their 
value.
Mrs H complained to Phoenix. Phoenix apologised to Mrs H for the delay in sending 
her the claim forms. But it told her that it was bound by the scheme and HMRC rules 
and had no option but to deduct the tax charge. Unhappy with that response, Mrs H 
referred her complaint to us.
I can see that in the lead up to, and shortly after, his 75th birthday Phoenix had a 
number of conversations with Mr H about him taking his pension benefits. But I am 
satisfied that those discussions didnt result in a claim being made by Mr H. So it 
seems there is little dispute that, at the time of his death, Mr H hadnt taken any of his 
benefits from this pension plan.
Phoenix has said that Mr Hs pension plan was opened in 1987. It says that the 
applicable terms for that plan are specific, in stating that, on death before taking 
benefits, the proceeds are payable to 'the executors, administrators or assigns of 
the Annuitant.. So it seems that Phoenix, as the scheme administrator, has little 
option but to pay the proceeds to the estate of Mr H, rather than directly to the sole 
beneficiary of the estate, being Mrs H.
Where payments of this nature are made, Phoenix is required to deduct tax 
according to rules set by HMRC. Those rules differ depending on whether payments 
are being made to an individual, or not. Payments to an individual are subject to the 
deduction of income tax. However otherwise payments are subject to the special 
lump sum death benefits charge. That charge is currently set at 45%.
So, it currently seems to me that Phoenix has little choice but to follow the relevant 
regulations and make a deduction of 45% from the proceeds of the pension plan that 
it pays to the estate of Mr H. Whilst I appreciate how disappointing that will be for 
Mrs H, particularly given the limited size of her late husbands estate, it doesnt 
appear to me to be something over which Phoenix can exercise any discretion.
But, as Phoenix will be aware, unlike the Courts, I am not limited to looking only at 
the issues a consumer has focused on in their complaint. Our approach is 
"inquisitorial" - rather than the "adversarial" procedures of the courts, where the 
lawyers for the two sides "fight it out". By law, I am required to resolve complaints 
fairly. This means I decide what questions to ask to get to the bottom of things. And it 
means I can concentrate on the relevant facts of the case, rather than the complaint 
as presented.
 
So here, I think it is also appropriate to consider what happened when Mrs H asked 
Phoenix to provide her with the forms she needed to complete to claim her late 
husbands pension benefits.
As I said earlier, Mrs H initially made that request to Phoenix just a few days after her 
husbands death. No doubt at that time Mrs H was making every effort to complete 
the necessary administrative tasks relating to her late husbands financial affairs at a 
time when she was experiencing great grief. So I think it would be reasonable for her 
to expect the organisations she dealt with to treat her compassionately, and deal with 
her requests as efficiently as possible.
But Phoenix failed to issue the required paperwork to Mrs H. I can see that, around 
three weeks later Mrs H needed to make a further follow up request to Phoenix. The 
claim forms werent issued to Mrs H until almost three more weeks had passed. 
Phoenix has said that the delay was due to internal processing issues when 
calculating the value of the benefits, due to the circumstances of the claim. But it has 
apologised for the time it took.
I am pleased to see that Phoenix has apologised to Mrs H for that delay. But I dont 
think an apology is sufficient. As Ive said earlier, this would have been a highly 
emotional time for Mrs H, and needing to make repeated requests for information 
would have been upsetting at that time. I think the delays caused her distress and 
inconvenience. So I intend to direct Phoenix to pay Mrs H the sum of £250 in respect 
of the upset its delays in issuing the paperwork to her would have caused.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mrs H and Phoenix have told us that they have nothing further that 
they wish to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has provided me with anything further, or disagreed with any of my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change the conclusions that I reached in that 
decision.
So my decision is that Phoenix has little choice but to follow the relevant regulations and 
make a deduction of 45% from the proceeds of the pension plan that it pays to the estate of 
Mr H. Whilst I appreciate how disappointing that will be for Mrs H, particularly given the limited size of her late husbands estate, it doesnt appear to me to be something over which 
Phoenix can exercise any discretion.
But I think that the delays in providing information to Mrs H about the benefits due to the 
estate of the late Mr H caused her distress and inconvenience. So I direct Phoenix to pay 
Mrs H the sum of £250 in respect of the upset its delays in issuing the paperwork to her 
would have caused.
Putting things right
Phoenix should pay Mrs H £250 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of this complaint and direct Phoenix Life Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman