DRN-3546299
The complaint
Mr M complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their decision to 
decrease the credit limit on his credit account.
What happened
Mr M held a credit account provided by Barclays for several years. And initially, this credit 
card had a limit of £2,010. But in April 2021, Barclays wrote to Mr M explaining they were 
intending to reduce his credit limit to £250, as they didnt believe the original limit was 
affordable to him. But they gave Mr M the opportunity to validate his income within this letter.
Mr M provided Barclays with bank statements which he felt showed the limit was affordable 
and that he had the income to service the account sustainably. But Barclays didnt think 
these statements satisfied them that the original limit was affordable. So, around August and 
September 2021, Barclays reduced Mr Ms limit to £742, to ensure the limit decrease didnt 
fall below Mr Ms outstanding balance. Mr M says he wasnt notified of this. So, he tried to 
make a transaction using his credit account which was declined. Mr M was unhappy about 
this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with Barclays decision to decrease his credit limit. He didnt think this 
decision was fair and he thought hed provided evidence to show the original limit was 
affordable. Mr M was also unhappy the limit was decreased with no notice being provided, 
meaning a transaction he attempted was declined causing him unnecessary upset and 
embarrassment. So, Mr wanted a full explanation as to why Barclays took the actions they 
did alongside an apology for the inconvenience it caused.
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They thought their decision to decrease Mr Ms credit 
limit was fair and that theyd acted in line with the terms of the account when doing so. They 
also thought theyd provided Mr M with reasonable notice of their intention to reduce the limit 
and that they had no obligation to provide Mr M with notice of the actual decrease. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our first investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. Mr M provided comments 
and additional evidence following this first view. And Mr Ms complaint was re-allocated after 
the first investigator left the service. So, our second investigator investigated Mr Ms 
complaint again, considering the comments and information Mr M had put forward.
Having done so, our second investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They thought Barclays 
had acted within the terms and conditions of the account when reducing Mr Ms credit limit. 
And they thought Barclays had been carrying out their duty as a responsible lender when 
doing so. So, they didnt think the decrease was unfair. They also thought Barclays had 
acted reasonably by reducing the limit down to £742, rather than the £250 they initially 
proposed, to ensure Mr M remained under the limit with his outstanding balance. So, while 
they recognised Mr Ms unhappiness with the decrease, they didnt think Barclays needed to 
do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his belief that he had provided evidence that showed he 
received an income that allowed him to service the account. And he reiterated his belief that 
Barclays had reduced his limit in an attempt to deter him from using their service, as he was 
maintaining his account in a way that wasnt profitable to Barclays. As Mr M didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I appreciate Mr M has 
been a customer of Barclays for several years and so, I can understand why Mr M would 
expect this loyalty to be factored into any decision Barclays make. And I recognise Mr M 
made use of his credit card account with Barclays and his short-term financial planning 
wouldve taken into consideration the limit he was originally provided. So, when Barclays 
made him aware they intended to reduce his credit limit, I can understand the upset and 
confusion this wouldve caused. I can also appreciate the embarrassment Mr M wouldve felt 
when a transaction he attempted was declined, when he was unaware an actual decrease 
had been applied after hed provided what he believed to be a valid proof of income. So, I 
understand why Mr M feels unfairly treated and is seeking clarity, and an apology, for 
Barclays actions.
But for me to say Barclays should offer an apology, or do something more, Id need to be 
satisfied that they have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that they failed to 
act in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account when reviewing and decreasing 
his credit limit. Or, if I think they did act within these, that they acted unfairly when doing so. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms account explains that Barclays will review the limit of the 
account from time to time. And it states that, if Barclays did decide to change the limit, that 
they would write to Mr M and let him know.
So, I think the terms allow Barclays to review and change Mr Ms credit limit and because of 
this, I think Barclays acted within these when doing so. And its not in dispute that Barclays 
wrote to Mr M in April 2021 to make him aware of their intention to reduce his limit. So again, 
I think they acted in line with the terms and conditions. But as Ive explained above, as well 
as ensuring Barclays acted in line with the terms of the account, I also need to be satisfied it 
was fair of them to do so.
I appreciate Mr M wants a full explanation as to why Barclays decided to review his account 
and why from this review his limit was decreased. But crucially, Barclays arent obliged to 
provide a specific reason as to why they decide to decrease a credit limit. There are many 
reasons why a business can decided to reduce a credit limit, which include and arent 
restricted to a review of a customers other credit commitments, overall business lending 
policy changes and a customers behaviour when maintain the account. In this situation, 
Barclays have explained theyve taken this decision as part of their role as a responsible 
lender, as they were unable to verify Mr Ms income. I think this explanation provides a fair 
and reasonable rationale as to why Barclays took the decision to reduce Mr Ms credit limit 
and I dont think they had an obligation to provide further detail regarding this.But Ive gone on to think about whether I think they were fair to take this decision. When a 
business such as Barclays decides to decrease a credit limit, the Lending Standard Boards 
(LSB) Standards of Lending Practice expect business to consider the impact this reduction 
will have on a customers ability to manage their finances. And businesses are expected to 
give a customer the chance to contact them before any decrease is implemented.
I can see Barclays provided Mr M with this chance in April 2021. And I can see they decided 
to reduce the credit limit to £742, rather than the £250 they initially proposed, to ensure Mr 
Ms balance didnt exceed the new limit. I think this shows Barclays considering the 
decreases impact on Mr Ms financial position as it protected him from having any negative 
information reported to his credit file. And I think Mr M was given the opportunity to provide 
information that may change Barclays mind on the decrease. Unfortunately, it didnt on this 
occasion.
So, I think Barclays acted fairly when deciding to decrease Mr Ms limit, as they considered 
LSBs Standards of Lending Practice alongside their duty as a responsible lender, which is 
what I would expect them to do. And crucially, Barclays are entitled to make their own 
decision on the amount of credit they are willing to provide to a customer and I dont think 
this decision should necessarily be impacted by the length of time a customer has used their 
service as a customers financial situation, and business policies, can change and evolve. 
Because of this, I dont think Barclays need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for. And I recognise Mr M wouldve 
been left embarrassed when he tried to use the card and couldnt, as the limit had been 
decreased without any further notice. But Barclays terms also explain that, where a credit 
limit is reduced based on assessment of risk, we have the right to not give you any notice 
beforehand. In this situation, Barclays did provide initial notice in April 2021. So, although I 
appreciate notice was given in April 2021 and Mr M provided information after that date, I 
dont think I can say Barclays acted unfairly when proceeding to reduce the credit limit 
without any further notice being provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman