DRN-4433334
The complaint
Miss E is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc declined her credit card application unfairly, 
leaving searches on her credit report.
What happened
In August 2022 Miss E applied for a credit card with HSBC. After they declined her 
application, Miss E enquired as to why. She was initially told it was in relation to her credit 
rating and later that it was because her employment status was recorded as unknown.
 
HSBC accepted this was an error on their part as Miss E had provided these details when 
she opened her bank account. They apologised, updated their records to reflect her current 
employment status, arranged for the hard searches in relation to the application to be 
removed and credited her account with £250.
As the hard search hadnt been removed, in March 2023 Miss E complained again to HSBC. 
They further apologised and sent a further request for the hard search to be removed. They 
also credited Miss Es account with a further £350.
Miss E referred her concerns to this service. Our investigator was satisfied that HSBC had 
sent a further request for the hard search to be removed and felt the £600 they had paid in 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Remaining unhappy, Miss E 
asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision. It said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
After requesting evidence of the hard search removal requests, HSBC have confirmed the 
requests that were sent to credit reference agencies (CRA) prior to March 2023 werent 
carried out correctly. However, theyve provided evidence that shows they requested 
removal from three well known CRAs in March 2023 and May 2023 and having received an 
unsuccessful notice from one CRA they also chased them in April and July 2023.
So between August 2022 and March 2023 Miss Es credit file wasnt updated as HSBC 
hadnt properly arranged for the removal to take place. Theyve acknowledged their mistakes 
and already paid £600 in compensation. Theyve also paid an additional £100 and then 
offered a further £150 bringing the total compensation to £850.
Since Miss Es further complaint to HSBC in March this year, it has taken around a further 
six months for confirmation the searches are to be removed by one CRA after she contacted 
them directly to expedite the process. Im aware this has been a particularly tough time for 
Miss E as she had intended to apply for further credit in relation to a large purchase of a 
personal nature.
Miss E has explained the impact HSBCs initial error has had, such as lack of access to 
financial products through concern she would be declined and further impact her credit 
rating. Whilst I fully understand Miss Es concern, as too many credit applications in a short
space of time may be a cause for financial concern to some providers, Im not aware she
had applied for further credit elsewhere and been declined so I cant say for sure that
wouldve been the case.
However, it has taken a long time for her to receive confirmation that the searches have
been removed and it has also taken some of her time to ensure this has been done. Its
unfortunate it has taken so long to rectify matters and part of this was in HSBCs control. But
Im satisfied after the complaint raised in March 2023, they had requested removal and have
chased this up.
HSBC rely on the CRAs to act on their requests, in this case for removal of the hard search.
One CRA declined the initial request and so they further chased this.
I think it is fair to say the service wasnt what it should have been, HSBC have accepted this
throughout the delay in removing the searches and by payments of compensation. But 
Miss E doesnt feel it fully compensates her for the time it has taken overall to put things right 
and the extra work it has created for her to ensure things were put right.
Whilst I dont underestimate the additional distress and inconvenience this has caused
Miss E, I think the £700 already paid plus the additional £150 offered is fair and reasonable
in the circumstances. As explained, we dont know for sure Miss E was unable to obtain
further credit as a result of the hard searches as she hadnt tried. And even though it has
taken a long time for the searches to be removed as agreed, some of this was out of HSBCs
control and they did, from what I can see, try to chase it up to ensure the removal.
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC accepted the decision. Miss E provided further comments in relation to level of 
compensation awarded as she doesnt feel it is reasonable given the substantial time taken 
and the stress HSBCs actions caused. Shes also commented on what she considers to be 
a misleading statement  which Ill address below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Miss Es strength of feeling regarding her complaint. Id like to reassure her that 
whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less detail and in 
my own words, Ive read and considered everything shes told us. Im satisfied Ive captured 
the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail she would like, in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
I understand Miss E feels the information she received directly from HSBC contradicts the 
information weve been provided in terms of when deletion requests were made. I have 
further considered this but am satisfied the information HSBC have provided supports their 
testimony in respect of the action they took. 
As I mentioned in my provisional decision, Miss E contacted one CRA to chase up what was 
happening. I dont think referring to this as expediting the process is misleading. Although I 
can see the response from the CRA suggests the information was being removed following her request rather than HSBCs. Ive also seen evidence that HSBC had requested the 
removal. 
I recognise that Miss E doesnt feel the distress has been fully considered, particularly taking 
account of the overall service HSBC provided and the time it has taken to get things 
resolved. Id like to assure Miss E that I have fully considered this and I recognise that she 
had put in a lot of time and effort to get this rectified. But overall, I feel £850 is fair in the 
circumstances for the reasons explained. Whilst I understand why she hadnt applied for 
further credit, my role is to ensure HSBC put things right based on what actually happened 
and the impact that caused, not what couldve happened. Im satisfied theyve done this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC should remove the hard searches, if not 
already removed, in relation to the declined credit application as agreed. And pay Miss E the
additional £150 bringing the total compensation paid to £850.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman