DRN-2721282
The complaint
Mr P complains Winser Financial Services Limited (Winser) wrongly advised him to invest in 
funds that were too high risk for his profile.
What happened
Mr P sought advice from Winser regarding his pension plans. Following his meetings with a 
Winser adviser, he was assessed as having a Medium-High risk profile. He was advised to 
invest £63,627 into the Reyker UK Equity Plan 1 (Reyker) plan via his SIPP. 
On 27 April 2013 Winser issued its suitability letter. It said:
You have specifically requested I focus my advice on the following:
- A review of your pension portfolios to ensure your existing investments are
performing satisfactorily, are invested tax efficiently, and continue to meet your needs
and objectives and reflect your risk profile.
We discussed the investment policy and with the economic climate volatile you prefer to
continue to have shelter from equity market falls but also the chance to generate significant
returns potentially higher than would be achievable via cash deposits or fixed term deposits
with a portion of the plan.
You preferred to have a plan with defined returns which could still benefit from any
stock market increases and with a degree of capital protection.
Mr P had a medium-high attitude to risk which is designated a risk score of 6.
At the time of seeking the advice, Mr P was invested in a Giliat Income Plan linked to the 
performance of the FTSE 100 Index. This plan paid a quarterly income which was capped at 
1.875% per quarter. The capital would be returned at maturity provided that the final index 
level was at or above 3500.
Mr P was advised to switch this plan into the Reyker plan which was also a
structured product that offered a higher quarterly fixed income of 2.5%. The value of the
Reyker plan was derived from the underlying indexed share price of Vodafone, Barclays and
BP. It would pay the stated fixed income so long as each trading day the shares of the three
companies were at or above 55% of their starting level. The Reyker plan was still subject to
counterparty risk; the counterparty was Royal Bank of Scotland.
The Reyker plan was designed to mitigate against capital losses. So, provided the value of 
the underlying shares within the Reyker plan didnt fall more than 45%, it would continue to 
pay 10% per year based on the closing prices of the shares that Mr P had subscribed to.
The Reyker plan could be taken out from 15 April 2013 and it was a 6-year policy with a
repayment date of 31 May 2019. The policy was designed to be held for the full-term.
However, the plan had an automatic early closure feature structured within it called  Kick
Out. This explained the counterparty, Royal Bank of Scotland would automatically repay 
investors their full investment capital plus the quarterly income payable, if the prices of the 
three shares within the plan are at or above their starting level at years 3,4, or 5.
Winser says the Reyker plan paid an income of £32,512. Mr P says this was
reinvested into other mainstream funds within his SIPP. The Reyker plan then returned a
capital of £33,457. This gave a total return of £65,969, which meant a profit of £2,342. 
Mr P engaged a new financial adviser in May 2017. Following a meeting with this adviser, Mr 
P, says he was told the Reyker plan was not aligned to his risk profile and this prompted him 
to formally complain to Winser on 4 November 2019.
On 14 November 2019, Winser issued its final response. It didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It 
said the Reyker plan was aligned to Mr Ps risk profile as assessed at the time, it was a 
suitable product for his needs and had gained during the time Mr P held it and so it didnt 
agree the plan was unsuitable or that Mr P had been wrongly advised.
Dissatisfied Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr P. He didnt find the Reyker plan to be too higher 
risk for Mr Ps risk profile based upon the evidence provided. He went onto say that the plan 
should have been held until maturity in May 2019, but Mr P had surrendered the plan early. 
Even so the plan had not made a loss and had after income received had still made a gain. 
Whilst he accepted Mr P was disappointed with the amount of gain the plan had made, he 
didnt find any grounds under which he could fairly uphold his complaint and so he didnt ask 
Winser to do anything further.
Mr P disagreed. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as the adjudicator for broadly the 
same reasons.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Winser.
Firstly, I can see before considering the merits of this complaint, a view was issued by the 
investigator establishing this was a complaint within the jurisdiction of this service. It is my 
understanding that Winser accepted this view and I have seen no evidence in the file to the 
contrary.
The crux of this complaint, as I understand it, is on the basis the Reyker plan Mr P was 
advised to invest in by Winser did not align to his risk profile.
Was the Reyker Equity Income Plan a suitable product based upon Mr Ps assessed risk 
profile?I have looked carefully at the fact find, which was carried out on 17 April 2013. It confirms:
Mr Ps main priority was retirement planning. He wanted to review his pension 
provision.
He was around 8 years away from his preferred retirement age of 65 years
He already held a SIPP, which had an approximate value of £86,500
Mr Ps risk profile was assessed as Medium-High with a designated score of 6
Mr P doesnt dispute the information contained within it and agrees with the risk profile 
assessment as Medium-High. Winser says it then used the risk profile to determine the 
investment strategy.
The Ryker Equity Income plan didnt risk rate its plans but Winser carried out due diligence 
on the plan and used past performance as a guide. Although, past performance is not a 
guide to future performance, it also used an independent company to for structured product 
research which looked at similar products and plans. From the information Ive seen it seems 
reasonable that the Reyker plan was aligned to a risk profile of a similar level such as that 
Mr P had been assessed as having. 
I have also noted Mr P had previous experience of structured products and so it seems 
reasonable to assume he had some understanding of how they worked. In this case there 
was an element of capital protection over the 6-year term whilst continuing to pay a 10% 
return (unless the lowest performing share dropped below 45%).
The suitability letter was, in my view, comprehensive and drew Mr Ps attention to both the 
benefits and the risks of such an investment. It directed Mr P to the Key Features document 
and clearly detailed the role of the counterparty and other risks such as early surrender and 
credit risk amongst other. 
In my view, Im persuaded the information Mr P received provided sufficient detail to assess 
if the recommendation was suitable. Mr P agrees he is a medium-high risk investor and the 
Reyker plan recommended by Winser offered a medium-high risk investment for the 
potential of higher investment returns than for example could be found from deposit 
accounts. The Reyker brochure also details there was a degree of risk to the capital invested 
and income.
On balance, Im persuaded Mr P was happy with the recommendation at the time and I can 
also see this was reviewed at subsequent annual review meetings. His risk profile also 
remained unchanged at the annual reviews, and so I cant fairly say either that the product 
was unsuitable for Mr P, or that I have seen anything to suggest he was unaware of the risks 
and benefits of the plan.
I understand Mr P is disappointed with the returns this investment provided. I can see he 
surrendered the plan early and in doing so received the share values on the three company 
shares held within the plan. But these amounts alongside the interest paid over the time Mr 
P held the plan still provided a gain on his original investment, in other words he hasnt 
suffered a loss. So, whilst he may be disappointed with the gain this doesnt equate to the 
plan being unsuitable or the that the advice, he received wasnt suitable for his needs. 
From what Ive seen I dont agree the advice Winser provided to Mr P was unsuitable and so 
Im not going to ask it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman