DRN-3020459
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a kitchen she financed through an agreement with 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs M made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the kitchen should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then theres been a breach of contract and Id 
ask Lloyds to put things right.
The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It says we should also consider 
whether goods have been durable.
As the fault occurred after three years the relevant legislation puts the onus on the consumer 
to demonstrate the fault was most likely present or developing when the kitchen was 
supplied; the point at which Ikano were responsible for its quality.
Here, I think Mrs M has been able to provide sufficient evidence to suggest the kitchen doors 
have not been durable. I say that because:
The independent report commissioned by Ikano suggests Mrs M used an abrasive 
spray on the cupboards and thats the reason for the variation in colour of the panels. 
The manufacturer has reviewed the report and agrees. Mrs M disputes having used 
such a spray and Ikanos independent inspector has provided no further evidence to 
substantiate the claim. The manufacturer hasnt visited Mrs M to review the issue 
either. I dont think there is therefore strong or sufficient evidence that an 
inappropriate cleaning product has caused the damage.
The inspector commissioned by Mrs M isnt a kitchen specialist but does have 
expertise in paint correction. That inspector has explained that he thinks the panels 
have not been affected by smoke, chemicals or UV and says hes extremely 
confident the difference in panel shading is not of the customers making. 
Mrs Ms inspector has substantiated his claim by explaining that the shade variance 
is not shared with adjacent panels and that the insides of the doors are of similar 
shades. He suggests this isnt something that would have happened if the shade 
variance was caused by a kitchen spray. I think thats a compelling argument and not 
one thats been countered effectively by Ikano.
Having reviewed the photographs myself I can see that whole panels vary in colour. 
If the variance was caused by a cleaning product I would expect to see variations 
within the panels where more or less cleaning fluid had been applied.
So, I think the weight of evidence suggests that the panels have deteriorated over time and I 
think a reasonable person would not expect to experience such variation in colour within only 
three years. I think, for those reasons, that this kitchen hasnt proven to be suitably durable 
and is therefore of unsatisfactory quality. 
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives a business one opportunity to repair a fault that was present or 
developing at the point of supply. So, I think Ikano should now have that opportunity. They 
should replace the discoloured doors and ensure that all doors and external facing panels 
are of a consistent shade.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ikano Bank AB (publ) to 
replace the discoloured doors and ensure that all doors and external facing panels are of a 
consistent shade.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman