DRN-3188402
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited didnt accept his deferment 
application when he says he sent it in time.
What happened
Mr As loan had a deferment deadline in October 2020. Mr A says he sent the relevant 
documents by post before the deadline, but not by recorded delivery  so he doesnt have 
any evidence that they were posted. Erudio say they didnt receive anything.
Mr A emailed Erudio in late November 2020 providing a copy of the documents, but this was 
after the deadline. The deferment period had expired, and later the loan defaulted. Mr A 
would like his deferment to retrospectively go through.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Based on 
the evidence that both sides provided, the earliest they could see that Mr A had sent the 
documents was in his email of late November, which was significantly after the deadline.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mr A, I cant fairly tell Erudio to do 
anything further here.
Mr A was particularly keen to make sure we knew that he emailed Erudio in November 2020. 
And to clarify, I do accept that he sent that email. But that email was still after the deadline, 
and by that point his deferment had already expired weeks ago.
According to Erudios records, theres nothing to show that Mr A sent them his deferment 
documents before the deadline. And Mr A has not been able to provide any evidence which 
shows that he sent the documents before then either.
So based on both sides evidence, the earliest I can see that Mr A sent his deferment 
documents was in late November 2020, after the deadline had already expired.
And on that basis, it seems fair that the deferment didnt go through and that the loan 
became payable. And so I dont require Erudio to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman