DRN-3484257
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard have irresponsibly lent
to her.
What happened
Miss B was accepted for a Barclaycard credit card in October 2017, with an initial credit limit
of £400. The credit limit was later increased to;
£800 in April 2018
£1,200 in December 2018
Miss B complained to Barclaycard that they irresponsibly lent to her. Barclaycard did not
uphold her complaint. They said that before they increase a credit limit, they take into
consideration details from her account and her credit file. They said due to the information
they received, they took the decision to increase her credit limit. Barclaycard said that they
could see her account was now with collections and gave her a telephone number to speak
to them if she needed assistance with her payments.
Miss B brought her complaint to our service. She said that she had a number of other
accounts at the time she was accepted for the Barclaycard and she had also defaulted on a
number of these. So she didnt think Barclaycard should have lent to her and increased her
credit limit. Miss B said her income wasnt as high as Barclaycard said it was.
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Bs complaint. He said the checks that Barclaycard
completed prior to approving Miss B credit card  and the increases to the credit were
proportionate to the level of credit they approved for Miss B. Our investigator said that while
Miss B was able to show she had more credit/defaults than Barclaycard had accounted for,
Barclaycard would have relied on the information the credit reference agencies gave them
and it wouldnt have been proportionate to make further checks based on the application
data and the credit reference agencies data. Miss B asked for an Ombudsman to review her
complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to approve the credit limit for Miss B, Barclaycard needed to make
proportionate checks to determine whether the credit was affordable and sustainable for her.
Theres no prescribed list of checks a lender should make. But the kind of things I expect
lenders to consider include - but are not limited to; the type and amount of credit, the
borrower's income and credit history, the amount and frequency of repayments, as well as
the consumer's personal circumstances.
Initial credit limit
Ive looked at what checks Barclaycard said they did prior to accepting Miss Bs application.
They said at the time of Miss B applying for the credit card, they considered the information
that she had gave them, such as being unemployed, with income of £17,520 and they
looked at the information they were provided by the credit reference agencies. Barclaycard
said that this showed Miss B had loan commitments of £5,225, no other credit card debt
(although she had a third party credit card and this was factored into their affordability data
at the time of her application, the data showed she didnt have a balance on the card at the
time) and Miss B wasnt using an overdraft.
But thats not all the information from the credit reference agencies showed. It showed that
from her open accounts, she was maintaining the payments on these accounts and her open
accounts didnt show any arrears.
So Ive considered if the checks that Barclaycard carried out were proportionate to the level
of credit that Miss B was given. Although the data shows that Miss B had no accounts in
arrears and the low initial credit limit in relation to her income, Im not persuaded that the
checks Barclaycard carried out here were proportionate.
I say this as a £17,520 income would seem disproportionate for someone who has a
recorded employment status of unemployed. So although Barclaycard would rely on third
party verification of the income, I would still expect them to make further, proportionate
checks to verify this information, given that the income may seem high for somebody
unemployed.
There are different ways that Barclaycard could have done this, such as speaking to Miss B
or requesting her bank statements to verify the information given. But Ive considered what
Miss B has said about the income recorded on her application isnt a true reflection of her
actual income.
So I asked Miss B if she could provide me with her bank statements for the six months prior
to her account being opened, which Im persuaded Barclaycard should have done as part of
a proportionate check, based on her income and her employment status. While Miss B said
she had sent me the statements from April - October 2017, I was only able to access her
statements from 1 April  28 April 2017. I asked Miss B to resend the rest of the statements,
but she didnt reply with this information, so I can only rely on the statements I have here.
But Im not persuaded that the outstanding statements would make a difference and Ill
explain why.
The statement shows that over the four week period of 1 April to 28 April 2017, that Miss B
received total benefits of £1,218.76. So if this was multiplied by 13 to equate to 52 weeks
then this would show that Miss B would be receiving benefits of £15,843.88. Miss Bs
account also showed income from faster payments from what would appear to be relatives
and savings from a credit union. If this is factored in, then Miss Bs income would be over
what she declared on her application. But even without factoring this in, it would seem that
Miss B would receive broadly what she declared on her application.
So Im satisfied that if Barclaycard had asked for Miss Bs bank statements, as part of a
proportionate check to verify her income due to the information on her application, then
Barclaycard would have still approved her application for the account  even if they received
her April 2017 bank statements only  as this broadly confirmed the income she declared on
her application, so there would be no requirement for Barclaycard to check all of the
statements once they had validated her income and saw this was from regular benefits.
Ive then considered what Miss B has said about the volume of accounts she had at the timeand that she had defaulted on accounts in the past. It may help to explain here that, while
information like a default on someones credit file may often mean theyre not granted further
credit  they dont automatically mean that a lender wont offer borrowing. Barclaycard dont
appear to have been aware of the extent of Miss Bs defaults. So, Ive considered whether
they were something that Barclaycard should have been aware of based on the information
theyd received. But Im not persuaded they should have been aware of this and Ill explain
why.
As Ive previously mentioned, Barclaycard need to conduct proportionate checks to
determine whether the credit would be affordable for Miss B. As the combination of the low
initial credit limit (£400) compared to her declared income (£17,520) and the fact the data
they provided showed that Miss B was maintaining her existing credit agreements they had
been made aware of, Im not persuaded it would have been proportionate for them to carry
out further checks here, when there was no obvious signs of financial difficulty from the data
they had been provided with.
April 2018 credit limit increase - £400 to £800
Ive looked at the information that Barclaycard had available to them when they increased
Miss Bs credit limit. I can see that in the months leading up to the credit limit increase that
Miss B had rarely approached her credit limit and she had ensured her payments were up to
date, often paying more than the minimum payment. I would expect to see if the payments
werent affordable, that Miss B would only pay the minimum payment or struggle to even pay
this.
Ive also looked at the data Barclaycard had around this time to get a broader sense of how
Miss B was managing her finances prior to her credit limit being increased. The data shows
that while Miss Bs external credit card debt had increased to £213, her external loan
balances had fallen to £4,561 and she had not used an overdraft. They also received
information from a credit reference agency that they were able to use an accurate
representation of Miss Bs income, as it was being validated by the credit reference agency
from her bank account activity.
Barclaycard doubled Miss Bs credit limit, however, as the initial credit limit was relatively low
based on her declared income, the increase was also relatively low (£400). And her total
debt was less than a third of her declared income. From the data Barclaycard could see from
how Miss B was using her account with them, the higher payments than the minimum
payments she was making and the reduced external loan balance, this would indicate she
was managing her payments well. So, Im satisfied the checks that Barclaycard conducted
prior to increasing Miss Bs credit limit were proportionate to the increase in the credit they
provided here.
December 2018 credit limit increase - £800 to £1,200
Ive looked at the information that Barclaycard had available to them when they increased
Miss Bs credit limit to £1,200. They again increased the credit limit by £400, a relatively
small amount compared to Miss Bs declared income. But Im conscious that this was three
times the initial credit limit that Barclaycard approved for Miss B. So, I would need to see that
the data Barclaycard had available to them would support the increase. Im persuaded that it
did and Ill explain why.
Again, Ive looked at Miss Bs Barclaycard statement in the months leading up to the
increase. I can see in June 2018, Miss B makes a substantial repayment to her credit card.
She always pays at least the minimum repayment on time and she occasionally paid more
than the minimum payment. Miss B had not exceeded her credit limit either prior to theincrease. So as Ive previously mentioned, if Miss B was struggling with her finances around
this time, I would expect this to be reflected in how she was using her Barclaycard and the
other data Barclaycard obtained prior to the last credit limit increase.
So, Ive looked at the other data Barclaycard used, prior to them increasing Miss Bs credit
limit for the last time. Their data shows that her external credit card balance and external
loan balances had fallen since the last credit limit had been approved. It also appears that
Miss B may have paid off one of her loans here, as the data shows her monthly outgoing for
her loans has fallen from £365 a month to £171 a month from the data that was extracted
from November 2018  a month prior to Barclaycard increasing Miss Bs credit limit.
This is likely to reconcile with a loan ending that Miss B provided us evidence of, which
started late November 2016 for 72 weeks, given that repayments would start after this date
and it may take the credit reference agencies up to a few months for the settlement to be
updated on Miss Bs credit file. So, it would appear to Barclaycard that Miss B would have
more disposable income as a result of their data to be able to afford a modest increase to
the credit limit here. So again, Im satisfied the checks that Barclaycard made prior to
increasing Miss Bs credit limit were proportionate.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Bs financial difficulties, but in order to uphold this complaint I would
need to see that Barclaycard irresponsibly lent to Miss B. But based on the reasons Ive
already given, Im persuaded that the checks Barclaycard completed prior to granting credit
(and increases) were proportionate. So, it follows I dont intend to ask Barclaycard to do
anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Miss B responded and said no, but she did not provide any new information for 
me to consider. Barclaycard responded to my provisional decision and they said they had 
nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman