DRN-4269315
The complaint
Mr Y complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) have charged him fees 
for a second card account he didnt intend to take out.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. And Ive summarised them 
previously when looking at our jurisdiction for this case. So I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts arent in dispute so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator, for the following 
reasons:
The circumstances described in AESELs response to Mr Ys complaint satisfy me he 
wanted a replacement card in 2013  not a second account. 
While AESEL may have created the second account to meet Mr Ys needs, theres 
no evidence it was made clear to him that it had happened. That was unreasonable. 
With a more reasonable service, I find it more likely than not Mr Y would have had a 
single account with two cards, like he says he thought he had. That would have 
meant he only paid one fee for his account. 
To put Mr Y in that position, AESEL should refund any second fee Mr Y has paid. 
Putting things right
I can see weve asked Mr Y for evidence to show what hes paid for his AESEL accounts 
over the years, but hes not been able to provide much detail. The best evidence I have are 
statements AESEL have provided for both accounts. These show Mr Y only paid a second 
fee twice  once in 2020 and once in 2022. 
AESEL should refund those two fees to Mr Y, adding simple interest at 8% to acknowledge 
that Mr Y hasnt had the use he should have from this money. This should run from the date 
Mr Y originally paid the second fees to the date the refund is issued. 
In addition, I can see Mr Ys felt frustrated and inconvenienced by this matter. To 
acknowledge that AESEL should make a compensation payment to Mr Y. 
Picking an amount for this is a matter of opinion. But I find £100 suitable in this case to 
reflect that the sums involved dont appear to have caused Mr Y significant financial 
hardship. And that the inconvenience looks limited to exchanging correspondence and 
making some phone calls. 
On those phone calls, I can see our investigator suggested AESEL reimburse Mr Y for any 
call charges he can show were incurred as a result of this complaint. I consider that a 
reasonably step to take, given those calls wouldnt have been needed if the service had 
been more reasonable. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint against American Express Services Europe Limited. If 
Mr Y accepts this decision, theyll need to pay the remedy Ive described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman