DRN-3526476
The complaint
Mr M complains that work carried out to instal replacement windows was not of satisfactory 
quality. Because the work was financed by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, he says 
that it is liable along with the supplier which Ill call E. Barclays Partner Finance is a trading 
name of Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, which Ill refer to as BPF.
What happened
In March 2018 Mr M entered into a 10-year loan agreement with BPF to pay for the supply 
and installation of replacement windows costing over £12,000.
The loan agreement said that BPF would pay the amount of the loan to the supplier, E, once 
Mr M had signed the loan agreement or once the goods and services had been provided, 
whichever was the later. The loan money was paid to E in July 2018.
There were some problems with part of the installation. That was acknowledged by E, but it 
was unable to complete remedial work. Mr M contacted BPF in early 2020. There were 
further delays in dealing with his concerns, in part it appears caused by the Covid-19 
pandemic. Later in 2020, E went into administration and so was not in a position to complete 
the remedial work needed  although it said that Mr M did have the benefit of a warranty 
guarantee which would enable him to make alternative arrangements.
The work was inspected by a different supplier and a quote for remedial work was provided. 
As a result, BPF agreed to reduce the loan balance by £2,939.42  enough to cover the cost 
of repairs. It also arranged a payment of £250, in addition to £100 it had already paid, to 
compensate Mr M for the inconvenience to which he had been put.
Our investigator thought that this was reasonable in the circumstances. At that point, 
however, the remedial work had not been completed.
I reviewed the case and issued a provisional decision. Although I was broadly in agreement 
with the investigators conclusions, I wanted to give the parties an opportunity to comment, 
since the work had been completed after the investigators assessment. In my provisional 
decision, I said:
There is no dispute here that some aspects of the original work were not completed 
satisfactorily. BPF does not dispute either that, because it provided the finance under 
arrangements with E, section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 makes it liable to Mr M 
for any breach of contract in the same way as E would have been. Failure to complete the 
installation of the windows with reasonable care and skill was a breach of contract on the 
part of E.
The usual remedy for breach of contract is to put the parties in the position in which they 
would have been if the contract had been performed. In this case, that means, in summary, 
that: E receives payment from BPF; Mr M has his windows installed to a satisfactory 
standard; and BPF in turn receives repayment of the loan from Mr M.
In order to have the windows correctly installed, Mr M has had to make an additional 
payment. That has however been reimbursed through a reduction in the loan balance. 
Broadly speaking, therefore, he is now in the position in which he would have been if the 
contract had been performed.
Mr M says too that the loan money should not have been paid to E (and the loan repayments 
commenced) until he was satisfied with the work. The loan agreement however said that the 
loan funds would be paid when the goods or services had been supplied. The contract here 
was for the supply of both goods and services, but payment did not depend on Mr M 
confirming that he was completely satisfied with the work. If, as was the case, the work was 
not satisfactory, Mr M had other remedies against both E and BPF.
I note that BPF has paid further compensation in recognition of the inconvenience to which 
Mr M has been put. I think that the sums paid are reasonable in the circumstances. In saying 
that, I observe that the real inconvenience here arose from the problems with the installation, 
not from any direct acts or omissions of BPF.
Taking account of the developments since the investigator issued her view of the complaint, 
therefore, I believe that BPF has done enough to put things right.
BPF indicated that it would accept my provisional findings, but Mr M has not responded to 
them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I indicated in my provisional decision that, as far as I was aware, the remedial work had 
been completed to a satisfactory standard. Mr M has not suggested otherwise, so I have 
proceeded on that basis.
In the circumstances, there is no reason for me to reach a different conclusion from that set 
out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman