DRN-4027846
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) didnt offer her alternative 
accommodation when her home was uninhabitable following a claim under her buildings 
insurance policy. 
Mrs B is represented by Mr B in her complaint. 
What happened
Mrs Bs home was damaged due to an escape of water in July 2022. She made a claim to 
Ageas, which it accepted and arranged for repairs to be carried out. 
Mr B says a contractor inspected the damage at the beginning of August 2022. It was 
confirmed at this time that Mrs B would need to move out so that the repairs could be 
completed. He says it was discussed with the contractor that insurers usually offer 
alternative accommodation, or a payment in lieu where the insured stays with family or 
friends. 
Mr B says Ageas was asked to confirm the position with respect to alternative 
accommodation. However, it didnt respond. A complaint was submitted to Ageas but by this 
point Mrs B was staying with her daughter as the repairs were underway. Mr B says it would 
cost around £5,000 for her to stay in a hotel for the period of the repairs. He asked that 
Ageas pay £2,500 as a compromise in lieu of the hotel costs Ageas had saved. 
Ageas says its contractors were told that Mrs B would be staying with family. So it wasnt 
aware there was a need for alternative accommodation. It says it received an email from Mr 
B on 7 September 2022. This said Mrs B would be staying at her daughters house to make 
things easier. Ageas says the representative asked what daily allowance it would pay in light 
of this arrangement. 
Ageas says it tried to call Mr B two weeks later without success. It sent an email asking what 
costs had been incurred by Mrs B. The response it received confirmed there were no costs 
but that she was entitled to a payment. Ageas says as no costs were incurred there is no 
payment for it to make under Mrs Bs policy. 
Mrs B didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She says the policy terms dont provide for a payment in lieu of 
alternative accommodation being used. She says Ageas wasnt made aware of a need for 
alternative accommodation. When this was discussed, it was told Mrs B was staying with 
family. Our investigator didnt think Ageas treated Mrs B unfairly by relying on its policy terms 
and not providing a cash payment in lieu of hotel costs. 
Mrs B didnt agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider her 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read the email correspondence that was exchanged between Mr B and Ageas. In an 
email from 7 September 2022, he states the work was due to start the following day, and 
that, to make it easier and to avoid the cost of alternative accommodation she [Mrs B] will 
stay at her daughters house. Can you confirm a daily allowance that you will pay for that. 
I can see from Ageass claim notes that it wasnt made aware of the date the work was due 
to commence until after it had begun. It made enquiries of its agent handling the repairs on 
its behalf. It responded to say the contractor carrying out the repairs had been told Mrs B 
was staying with family for the duration of the work. It says it didnt contact Ageas regarding 
alternative accommodation because it wasnt needed. 
I can see Mr B contacted Ageas again by email on 21 September 2022. He says, Were 
basically looking for something by way of a daily or weekly sum to reflect the fact that [Mrs B] 
has moved in with us rather than the costlier option of moving to a hotel whistle her house 
cannot be occupied. I presume insurers still deal with alt. accommodation that way. This 
was in response to Ageass request for confirmation of the additional cost incurred by Mrs B 
when staying with her daughter. 
Ive read Mrs Bs policy terms to understand what cover is provided with respect to 
alternative accommodation. The terms say:
we will pay the reasonable cost of necessary alternative accommodation for you, your 
family and your domestic pets until you can live in your home again.
Based on this evidence Mr B confirmed there was no requirement for alternative 
accommodation for Mrs B. I acknowledge his point that alternative accommodation wasnt 
mentioned or offered by Ageas. But from what Ive seen it was made clear Mrs B would be 
staying with family. Mr B did comment on a payment being provided in lieu of hotel costs in 
his email on 7 September 2022. Ive no reason to doubt that he also discussed this with 
Ageass contractor, as he has said. But there is no requirement for such a payment to be 
provided under Mrs Bs policy terms. 
If Mrs B incurred costs as a result of staying with her daughter whilst works were ongoing  
Id expect Ageas to consider reimbursement according to her policy terms. But Ageas did 
ask for information about any costs incurred and Mr B confirmed there were none. 
Mr B holds a strong view that its usual practice for a payment to be provided by an insurer in 
these circumstances. More specifically where family or friends save the insurer money on 
hotel costs by providing accommodation for its customer. Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs 
comments. But I dont think a payment is required here. 
The cover provided by Ageas is as detailed in its policy terms and conditions. Having read 
Mrs Bs policy terms I cant see that she is entitled to a payment in these circumstances. Im 
glad she was able to stay with her daughter whilst repairs were completed in her home. But I 
havent seen evidence that she has incurred costs that Ageas is responsible for covering 
under its policy.Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Mrs Bs home suffered damage, I dont think 
Ageas behaved unfairly when handling her claim and in declining to make a payment in lieu 
of alternative accommodation costs. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman