DRN-3260377
The complaint
Miss H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss H says she applied for the account in June 2021 and says Vanquis should not have 
approved her application. She says appropriate checks were not carried out and that 
Vanquis ought to have asked to see her bank statements or wage slips. Miss H says she 
was only working three hours a week and had a gambling problem. She would like the 
balance written off.
Vanquis says Miss H applied for the account and told it she had income of just over £10,000 
a year. It says it carried out checks on the application noting Miss H had other debt of about 
£2,000 which was well managed. Vanquis says it carried out checks on Miss Hs credit file 
and couldnt see any recent adverse information.
Miss H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained to Miss H the checks we would expect a lender to carry out which she thought 
Vanquis did in this case. The investigator thought Vanquis did consider Miss Hs existing 
debt and lack of recent adverse information on her credit file. And that Vanquis wouldnt 
have known about Miss Hs gambling problem.
Miss H doesnt accept that view and maintains further checks ought to have been carried 
out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss H will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
credit or lending application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending or the amount of a credit facility. This was an application for a credit 
facility rather than for example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected 
Vanquiss checks to have been as detailed as for that type of lending. But of course, 
appropriate checks must still be carried out.
Im satisfied that Miss H applied for the Vanquis credit card account and declared an income 
of just over £10,000 a year and with limited outgoings. Im also satisfied that Vanquis did 
carry out checks on the application and can see that it looked at Miss Hs credit file and 
carried out affordability checks. I can see that Vanquis calculated Miss Hs other debt at just 
over £2,000 and was entitled to consider that Miss H managed her other debt appropriately.
So, Im satisfied that Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss Hs 
application and that there wasnt anything that resulted from those checks that would have 
reasonably led Vanquis to conclude the lending was unaffordable. Im also satisfied that 
Vanquis approved what I think was a relatively modest credit facility of £500.
I appreciate Miss H says she had a gambling problem and I am sorry to have read that. I 
think it likely that it was the gambling issue that caused Miss Hs financial difficulties and her 
debt to family or friends. I dont think Vanquis could have known about that issue unless 
Miss H told it about it. And I have made clear that I think Vanquiss checks were appropriate 
and I wouldnt have expected it in those circumstances to have asked to see Miss Hs bank 
statements.
For those reasons I cant fairly order Vanquis to write off Miss Hs debt and make clear that 
even if I upheld the complaint, wouldnt have asked it to have written the debt off as Miss H 
had the benefit of that money. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman