DRN-3238263
The complaint
Miss F complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd trading as Fiat Financial Services 
irresponsibly granted her a fixed sum loan agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2019, Miss F acquired a used car financed by a fixed sum loan agreement 
from FCA Automotive. Miss F was required to make 48 payments of £278 followed by a final 
payment of £4,684. The total repayable under the agreement was £18,028.
Miss F says that FCA Automotive didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. FCA Automotive didnt agree. It 
said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included credit and other due diligence 
checks. It says Miss F was living with parents at the time and that she met its lending 
criteria.  
Miss F also complained that she had thought she was entering a different type of agreement. 
FCA Automotive said the agreement clearly set out what type of agreement it was and the 
key terms.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought FCA Automotive 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss F didnt agree and said that all of her committed expenses werent taken into 
consideration and that part of her income was from a bonus that wasnt guaranteed each 
month. She also reiterated that she thought she was getting a different type of agreement.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA Automotive will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
FCA Automotive carried out a credit check before providing the loan. This didnt show any 
accounts in arrears, defaults or other issues that I think would require further checks to take 
place. It did show that Miss F had a credit commitment outstanding with monthly payments 
of £153 and credit cards, one with a balance of just under £700 (within the limit). I note 
Miss Fs comments about another loan she took out in August 2019 but given the timing this 
may not have been visible on the credit check. As FCA Automotive undertook a credit check 
and this didnt raise concerns I do not think it was required to ask further details about this.
FCA Automotive was provided with information about Miss Fs employment and that she was 
living with parents. However, I have nothing to show that it asked Miss F about her income 
or committed expenditure prior to lending. Without any understanding of what Miss F was 
earning and her outgoings, I dont think it was possible for FCA Automotive to make a fair 
assessment of their ability to afford the repayments without undue difficulty. It therefore 
didnt complete proportionate checks. 
I think it would have been proportionate for FCA Automotive to have found out more about 
Miss Fs income and committed expenditure, such as her living costs. I cant be sure exactly 
what FCA Automotive would have found out if it had asked. In the absence of anything else, 
I think it would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in 
Miss Fs bank statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed three months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that Miss F had an average monthly income of around £1,300. I note the comments 
made about part of the income being a non-guaranteed bonus and the income reducing in 
September to just over £1,000 but based on the three months bank statements her income 
was reasonably consistent at around £1,300. I have to consider what information FCA 
Automotive would have seen had it carried out the check on income and I think it reasonable 
that a figure of £1,300 would have been identified.
I have looked at Miss Fs committed expenditure. This includes food, petrol, credit 
commitments and other regular payments. Based on this her average monthly expenses 
appeared to be just over £800. I note the comments made about the bills for her horse and 
the vets. However, the bank statements do not show these as regular commitments that I 
would have expected to have been taken into account had the expenses been assessed. 
Taking Miss Fs regular income and expenses figures front eh months leading up to the 
agreement into account, it appears to show the agreement was affordable to Miss F. I also 
note that there were no obvious signs on Miss Fs bank statements (such as returned direct 
debits) to suggest she was in financial difficulty. Because of this, Im not persuaded that FCA 
Automotive acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Miss F also complains that she was provided with an agreement that was different to what 
she had expected. She says she was given a four year loan agreement rather than a three 
year PCP. I note the comments Miss F has made and can understand why she is upset. 
However, as the information provided in the agreement sets out that it is a motorloan and the 
term, monthly payments, balloon payment and interest charge are all clearly set out I do not 
find I can say that Miss F wasnt provided with the information she needed to make an 
informed decision as to whether to enter into the loan or not. 
I understand that this isnt the outcome Miss F wants but on balance, in this case I do not 
find I have enough evidence to uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman