DRN-4101512
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited 
(BGIL) when she made a claim under her Home Care cover policy.
What happened
Mrs S made a claim to BGIL when she discovered water damage in her home. A number of 
engineers attended over a four month period. A first leak was found and repaired - but there 
was still a leak and this was eventually discovered coming from a different area. BGIL found 
the second leak was caused by an incorrect connecter being used when a pipe had been 
installed. As BGIL excluded cover for damage caused by poor workmanship, it didnt agree 
to meet the costs to repair the damage caused by tracing the second leak.
For the delays and inconvenience caused by the number of appointments needed, BGIL 
apologised and paid Mrs S £100 compensation. But it said not every fault is easy to identify 
and fix immediately. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator thought 
BGIL had done enough to resolve the complaint. 
Mrs S didnt agree. In summary she says there was only one leak which was made worse 
because BGIL failed to identify it. She wants BGIL to pay to repair the damage caused 
looking for the leak - and she wants it to reimburse her for the excess she paid of £60 as she 
says it didnt fix the leak. She says she had to pay approximately £600 to have the leak 
repaired. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs S has been caused some distress and inconvenience while making her 
claim. Unfortunately some of this is inevitable when a leak occurs and it isnt always 
immediately clear as to where the leak is, and if there is more than one. 
In recognition of the time it took to deal with Mrs Ss claim and the inconvenience caused, I 
think BGILs compensation of £100 and apology is reasonable. 
I understand Mrs S says BGIL didnt repair the leak - and that it was one leak which became 
worse. I havent received any evidence from Mrs S to show this. Our Investigator explained 
that if Mrs S is able to obtain an expert opinion to contradict the engineers information to 
BGIL, she will need to provide this to BGIL for review. 
Mrs Ss policy says the following:
We wont be responsible for repairing any pre-existing damage, nor will we replace 
or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, 
decoration, grass or plants
We're not responsible for any loss of or damage to. or cleaning of property furniture 
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we 
caused it. For example damage caused by water leaks. We 're also not responsible 
for any losses incurred as a result of delayed, rearranged or cancelled appointments
Having identified that the second leak was caused by the installers incorrectly using a pan 
connector as an elbow to connect the downpipe downstairs, BGIL has applied the following 
exclusion:
Pre-existing faults
Your products don't include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 were already there when your boiler, appliance or system was installed:
 existed when you first took out the product:
 weve told you about before and you haven't fixed, or. if the work has been 
completed by a third party, where work, in our opinion, has not been completed to a 
satisfactory standard:
 we couldnt reasonably have been expected to know about before, for example, 
faulty pipes that dont have the correct protection, or which are buried under concrete 
floors: or
 prevent access because a part of your system has been permanently built over
It is unfortunate that there was consequential damage to Mrs Ss home in finding the source 
of the leaks in order to fix them. But I dont think BGIL is responsible for carrying out repairs 
in this case. So I think BGIL has done enough to resolve Mrs Ss complaint and acted in line 
with the policy terms.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S. But for the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman