DRN-4307402
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly avoided 
his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Advantage through an online price comparison 
website. 
When his car was stolen he tried to make a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Advantage said hed answered the question it asked about the legal owner and keeper of the 
vehicle incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and return the premium 
hed already paid.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought it should not be upheld. They 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation and agreed it was careless and that 
Advantage was entitled to avoid his policy. And it was correct to return the premium hed 
paid to him.
Mr S doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
said he made a mistake with the details at inception but said Advantage did not send him the 
policy documents. He also said that Advantage had told him the mistake would not affect the 
claim and it would settle it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he made his online application for a motor insurance policy and he stated he was the 
registered owner and keeper of the car to be insured.  
Ive looked at the questions asked on the price comparison website and it asks Whose 
name is on the registration document?  and also Who owns the car?.  Mr S responded the 
policy holder to both questions. 
In this case I looked at the vehicle registration documentation and found it was not Mr Ss 
name on the document. Mr S said that it was his friends name on the registration document 
and the car was bought on a finance agreement by this person.
I do not think Mr S took reasonable care to answer these questions accurately.
Advantage provided evidence by way of its underwriting criterial that it would not offer a 
policy if the vehicle was owned by anyone other than the policy holder. 
 
This means Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Advantage said Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless.
I agree that Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless. Mr S has accepted he made a mistake. 
However he said he was not sent the policy documentation. I saw evidence that on 
10 March 2022 a welcome letter which included the policy documents was produced and 
sent to Mr S. Additionally the documents were available on his online account. I cannot hold 
Advantage responsible for Mr S not receiving these, or accessing his online account to look 
at his policy documents. It was his responsibility to check that everything was correct when 
he took out the policy.
Mr S also said when Advantage found he was not the registered owner or keeper after he 
made the claim on his policy that it had told him this would not affect the claim and it would 
settle.
I listened to the calls made by Mr S when he first made his claim after his car was stolen. 
Although I heard Advantages agents say they would change the details of the car registered 
owner and keeper, when they attempted to do this it was not a change that was accepted. 
Mr S was told this change had been referred to the underwriter. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ss misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. Advantage are able to
avoid the policy from the point of misrepresentation, which in this case is the start of the 
policy in March 2022 
not deal with the claim
return any unused premiums.
In this case Advantage avoided Mr Ss policy from the start, did not deal with his claim and 
refunded his premiums at the start of February 2023. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Advantage was entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed Advantage does not 
have to deal with his claim following the theft of his car. As CIDRA reflects our long-
established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Advantage to rely on it to 
avoid Mr Ss policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not uphold Mr Ss complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman