DRN-3604054
The complaint
Mr S complains that Monzo Bank Ltd has registered a marker at CIFAS the national fraud 
database.
What happened
Mr S says he was asked by someone from college to open an account in May 2021. And 
that he allowed that account to be used by this person and would benefit from investment in 
crypto currency. But he says he was tricked, and the person used the account to receive 
fraudulently obtained funds. He found out later that year that the marker had been added 
when his account at a different financial business was closed. He explains the impact of the 
marker including the stress caused.
Monzo Bank said it hadnt made a mistake. It had received a notification that a payment of 
£312 into Mr S account was fraudulently obtained. So, it had closed his account and 
registered the marker.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld, the marker removed, and Mr S 
paid £200 in compensation. She said that Monzo Bank has to make checks, and this should 
include allowing Mr S to give his side of events. To add a marker the guidance from CIFAS 
is that:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
Monzo Bank hadnt spoken to Mr S at the time. Mr S said it hadnt wanted to take into 
account his explanation of what happened when he complained. Mr S said he gave control 
of his account to the other person. And his only role was in transferring £20 to a crypto 
currency account. He had provided screen shots to support his case. She found his 
explanation to be plausible and persuasive. Although his account was used for fraudulent 
purposes she thought that he was an unwitting participant and wasnt complicit.
Monzo Bank didnt agree. It said that it wasnt part of its process to reach out to a customer 
in these circumstances. It had undertaken a thorough investigation and had information 
about the payments and the device used. There had been small tester payments to the 
account first from money in an external account and then transferred to a crypto currency 
provider. And this suggested that the customer was complicit in the fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Monzo Bank 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
There are some points here that are agreed. And these are that Mr S opened the account 
with Monzo Bank. He allowed a third-party free access to the account. Fraudulent money 
was paid into the account on 13 July 2021 and was moved on within a minute. There was 
more than one device with access to the account. 
Ive listened carefully to the explanation he gave to our adjudicator during calls with this 
service. He says that the person involved was in his class in college and contacted him on 
social media after college had finished. He says those initial messages arent stored by the 
app involved. He said none of his personal money was to be used and if this worked he 
could make money. He trusted the person involved. He couldnt say why that person couldnt 
have his own account. And he just thought this was a way to build a network and help each 
other out. He opened the account solely for this purpose and for the other person to use.
He was frankly vague about payments into his account at the start. He thought a £2 initial 
credit was from him to open the account. He was unsure about a further credit of £20 on 27 
June 2021 which appeared to come from the same external account. And he then said that 
the person involved somehow sent the money.
He has provided some screenshots from social media to support his case. I dont have 
particular reason to doubt these are genuine even though I cant fully verify them as unedited 
and complete. 
There is an online chat about the £20 crypto currency investment on 6 July 2021. Mr S 
seems to send some account details and a password relating to that investment. And on 13 
July 2021 (untimed entry) he is told to Click on portfolio. Then click on bitcoin. Mr S has 
given the following explanation that  Here was the details he asked me for. He then saved 
the details and then told me where to put the money on a [third-party business name] 
account and invest in bitcoin.  
There is a screen shot from the Monzo Bank app taken at 16:26 on 13 July 2021. The credit 
of £312 came in at 16:18 and was moved out it seems to a different crypto currency account 
at 16:19. Mr S then seemed to provide his account details at a different financial business on 
15 July 2021. Hes said to this service about the £312 that this did seem a bit random. But 
that he was assured by the other person that this was something that didnt work, and he 
wasnt sure exactly about it.He's explained to this service that later that year he was contacted by this individual again. 
He provides what I consider significant evidence about that. And details of a discussion 
about Mr S providing new account details to the person. He gathered this to support his 
complaint.
Monzo Bank didnt speak to Mr S at the time which Ive have expected it to try to. This may 
have affected how complete Mr S evidence now is. But it doesnt automatically mean that 
the marker was added unfairly. And having seen his evidence now Monzo Bank still is of the 
same opinion about the complaint.
I need to make an overall assessment in what I think is a finely balanced case. Its not 
enough for Mr S only to say that the other person involved was the fraudster. He bears a 
responsibility for the way in which his account was used. Here Im satisfied on balance that 
someone else was involved and was giving direction to Mr S. And that Mr S genuinely 
thought he would make money out of crypto currency and that the initially small investment 
seemed to reflect that. I also think his efforts to provide more information now as Ive set out 
above is an important factor. And so, I dont conclude either that he was directly involved in 
this fraud or reasonably thought that this would happen. I think that his expectations about 
making easy money were nave. 
So, Ive carefully considered Mr S actions and reactions including during the investigation by 
this service. And my judgement in this specific case is that I dont find he was deliberately 
complicit in this fraud. I dont conclude on balance that the high bar for the CIFAS marker 
was reached here. 
I agree our adjudicators suggested resolution for the case is reasonable. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Monzo Bank Ltd to remove the 
CIFAS marker and pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman