DRN-3970121
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) acted irresponsibly by 
providing her with an overdraft and increasing her limit. She says the lending has caused her 
severe detriment as she hasnt been able to pay back the overdraft. 
What happened
In May 2016 Miss O held a student account with Barclays that came with an interest free 
overdraft facility with a limit of £1,000. In October this was increased to £1,500 and then 
£2,000 in March 2017.
Miss O complained to Barclays that the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable for her 
as she was a student with no history of credit. 
Barclays said as a student Miss O benefited from an interest and fee free overdraft and that 
it wasnt unusual for an account of this type to operate with an overdrawn balance. And in 
the last six years Miss O has not incurred any overdraft interest on the account apart from a 
small number of unpaid fees. Barclays say that at the time Miss Os overdraft limit was 
increased she was sent letters confirming the terms and that if she had any concerns it 
wouldve expected her to raise them sooner. 
Miss O was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt think Barclays shouldve 
increased the overdraft limit to £2,000 in March 2017 as if it had carried out a proportionate 
check it would of likely seen that Miss O was having problems managing her money as she 
hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. They thought 
Barclays should refund additional interest, fees and charges applied as a result of the 
overdraft limit increases from March 2017.
Barclays agreed with our adjudicators view and agreed to:
Refund the charges applied to Miss Os account which total £48. 
To arrange for its Financial Assistance Team to make contact regarding the 
repayment of the account which overdrawn balance was currently £1,949.92.
Barclays confirmed that there is no adverse data reported on Miss Os credit file.  
Miss O didnt wish to accept this offer. She says her complaint related to the entire overdraft 
and not just the final £500 increase that took place. She says the overdraft debt has caused 
her mental distress for years and at no point did Barclays reach out to set up a payment plan 
or assess her financial needs. She wants to be compensated for the distress caused and 
have some of her overdraft written off and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Barclays has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss O is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Miss Os statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that 
by March 2017 it was evident Miss O wasnt managing her overdraft in a sustainable way 
and it shouldnt have agreed to further increase her limit. As although Miss Os statements 
show that Miss O was able to pay off her overdraft briefly in January 2017, I can see that this 
was due to the receipt of student loan payments and that by March she was right at the top 
of her overdraft limit and the level of credits shed previously received into her account 
appear to be reduced.  If Barclays had carried out a proper review of her statements, I think 
it ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss O would be able to sustainably repay the extra 
lent within a reasonable period of time.
Barclays has agreed to settle Miss O complaint in-line with this finding and Miss O will be left 
with an outstanding balance, once all adjustments have been made, and shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. So while Miss 
O will be left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Barclays has agreed to do 
what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss O says Barclays should do something different here. She says Barclays should refund 
the fees charged on the entire overdraft  and not just the last limit increase. But Barclays 
has confirmed that in the past six years it hasnt charged any overdraft interest  so there is 
nothing further to refund here. Indeed, the £48 Barclays has agreed to refund relate to other 
charges such as unpaid transaction fees.
Miss O says the irresponsible lending has taken a toll on her mental health and wishes to be 
compensated for this.  But this is a reason for upholding her complaint rather than a reason 
for departing from our normal approach to putting things right such as hers.Barclays confirmed that no interest or fees were charged for the use of Miss Os overdraft 
and has agreed to refund related fees. So what Miss O will be left with to repay are the funds 
which she used and benefitted from. I understand Miss O would like some of her overdraft 
written off, but given that she spent this money without being charged for it and the 
borrowing hasnt impacted her credit file, I think its perfectly fair and reasonable to expect 
Miss O to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss Os unhappiness at having a 
balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has been upheld, is in itself a 
compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Barclays has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss O is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss O to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Barclays offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Miss O is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman