DRN-3959883
The complaint
Miss A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt process a cheque payment which 
meant she lost about £2,000.
What happened
Miss A says she sent a cheque to her mother in August 2022 from her Barclays account. 
She says she called Barclays to confirm she had sent the cheque, but the cheque was not 
honoured as it was from an old cheque book. Miss A says she was sent a new cheque book 
but by the time the second cheque was sent, exchange rate differences meant she lost 
about £2,000. She would like Barclays to pay that difference.
Barclays initially accepted making a mistake and paid £200 compensation. It now says it 
didnt make a mistake and Miss A used a cheque book that was issued at least 20 years 
ago. Barclays says Miss A didnt provide the cheque details to it when she called it and, in 
any event, doesnt have a record of the cheque being referred back to it.
Miss A brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
didnt think Barclays had made a mistake or was aware of the cheque number when Miss A 
called it.
Miss A doesnt accept that view and says she was told Barclays would accept a cheque as 
her name was on it. She maintains Barclays is responsible for the loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Miss A will be disappointed by my decision.
I dont think it clear which bank rejected the payment or what system the foreign bank used 
to attempt to cash the cheque. But I dont think that matters as its likely the payment was 
rejected by one of the banks involved as the cheque used by Miss A was at least nearly 20 
years old and possibly older than that. Im satisfied Miss A wrote that cheque and ought to 
have been reasonably aware it was from a cheque book of some age. It follows that I dont 
think a bank would have made a mistake by rejecting a cheque in those circumstances.
I appreciate Miss A called Barclays about the payment, but I dont think that call is relevant 
to this decision. Im satisfied Miss A told Barclays she had made the payment but didnt 
provide the cheque details and so Barclays couldnt have known about the age issue of the 
cheque at that stage.
I also appreciate there was an exchange rate difference by the time Miss A was able to send 
a new cheque. I have made clear I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for the difference 
and think that Miss A could have considered alternative methods of sending the money 
rather than wait for a new cheque book which may have mitigated her losses in any event. I 
dont think it clear why Barclays paid the £200 compensation. But it follows that I cant fairly 
order it pay Miss A the £2,000 she would like in circumstances where I cant hold it 
responsible for what took place. I dont think it matters that Miss As name was on the 
cheque as it likely, as I have made clear, that it would be rejected due to its age.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman