DRN-2825086
The complaint
Miss C complains that Unum Ltd unfairly ceased her income protection benefit.
What happened
As both parties are aware of what happened, I have only provided a summary of the 
background to this complaint. 
Miss C has access to a group income protection policy with Unum via her employer. She 
made a successful claim on this policy in relation to her mental health, and when she 
resumed some work in a less senior role and on reduced hours, she began to receive a 
partial benefit under the policy.
However, in February 2020, Unum said available medical evidence no longer indicated that 
Miss C was incapacitated and unable to resume her insured occupation on a full time basis. 
So, it made the decision to cease the partial benefits it had been paying. 
Miss C disagreed with Unums decision and complained. She said she wasnt well enough to 
resume her insured occupation on a full time basis still, and the medical evidence supported 
that. 
Unum maintained its position, and Miss C referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the available medical evidence did suggest that Miss C was well 
enough to resume her insured occupation on a full time basis. He didnt think the claim had 
been ceased fairly because of that, and recommended Unum reinstated it and paid 
backdated benefits with interest. 
Miss C agreed with our investigators recommendation. Unum did not.
Unum said the medical evidence suggested that the ongoing barriers in Miss C resuming her 
insured occupation on a full time basis were the stress and responsibilities of the role itself. 
And, that the evidence also suggested that if those barriers were removed, a full return 
appeared possible. But our investigator remained of the opinion that Unum hadnt done 
enough to demonstrate Miss C was no longer incapacitated. 
No agreement was reached, so the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and regulations, Unum has a responsibility to consider claims 
both promptly and fairly, and it must not reject them unreasonably. 
The policy in this complaint sets out that an insured member is incapacitated when Unum is 
satisfied the member is:
Unable by reason of their illness, or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation, and are [] not performing any occupation
The policy also sets out that Unum will pay a reduced benefit in the following circumstances:
If an illness or injury prevents a member from working in their own role for the normal 
number of hours but they work part time or on restricted duties in a lower-paid role, we will 
pay benefit at a reduced rate.
Unum was within its rights to review Miss Cs claim on an ongoing basis and cease 
payments if she no longer satisfied the policy terms. But as our investigator rightly explained, 
the onus would have been on it to demonstrate that.  
Ive seen the descriptions of both Miss Cs insured occupation and the role shes currently 
performing. Both sides are aware of those descriptions, so I wont recite them here. But I 
note that when compared, Miss Cs current role appears more junior than her insured 
occupation. It appears to centre around her providing a support function too. Whereas her 
insured occupation appears to centre on her providing more of a lead based and decision 
making role. 
I can understand why Unum has interpreted some of the medical evidence in the way that it 
has, and agree there is some reference to Miss Cs working environment having an impact 
on her mental health. However, Im not persuaded that Unum has done enough at this point 
to demonstrate that Miss C is no longer incapacitated and is able to return to her insured 
occupation on a full time basis. 
Having considering the medical evidence in the round, Ill explain why.
In June and August 2019, Miss Cs clinical psychologist noted that her progress had been 
gradual, and she still required further psychological support. They also said Miss C had met 
the criteria for a diagnosis of generalised anxiety disorder. 
In July 2019, Miss Cs GP reviewed the interaction shed had with the surgery and said, the 
theme of (Miss Cs) presentation and GP consultation continues with predominant symptoms 
of anxiety and insomnia with associated low mood. 
The GP also said, this was the beginning of her current psychological illness and at no point 
since it started has she been able to sustain full capacity in her role as (x).
Miss Cs GP medical records also show a diagnosis of anxiety and depression in 
October 2019, as well as a GP referral to a psychiatrist in the same month. And in 
November 2019 a consultant psychiatrist reported that Miss C continued to suffer with 
symptoms of depression and anxiety which affected her competence and confidence. The 
psychiatrist also agreed to an increase in her medication, and said theyd consider a change 
in it if this increase was not of benefit to Miss C. 
In December 2019, the consultant psychiatrist further noted that Miss C had continued to 
report tiredness and brain fog, which were highlighted in the workplace. They confirmed 
theyd made no further changes to her medication, and would be reviewing her again the 
following month. And in March 2020, Miss Cs clinical psychologist noted that shed 
continued to make progress, but cited pressures in the workplace as having had an impact 
on her anxiety.
In June 2020 a different psychologist saw Miss C. Within their clinical impression they 
described Miss C as a previously high functioning individual who presents with a history of heightened anxiety and reduced occupational functioning. They too gave a clinical 
diagnosis of generalised anxiety disorder. 
Unums position in this complaint is that the medical evidence suggests work stressors are 
the cause of Miss Cs symptoms, and her insured occupation is causing her anxiety rather 
than a mental health condition. But Im not persuaded I can fairly agree with its interpretation 
here. 
While I havent cited every single piece of evidence above, I did consider everything that had 
been made available and I am aware that reference to Mis Cs symptoms being more 
highlighted in the workplace was made. As was reference to the workplace environment 
having an impact on her mental health. 
But being able to return to the insured occupation in the event of work stressors being 
removed was not noted. Nor was the demand of Miss Cs occupation being the sole cause of 
her mental health condition. Miss C has been diagnosed with a mental health condition, and 
I am aware that her psychologist cited a number of early life experiences which they felt had 
made Miss C vulnerable towards such conditions. 
Throughout this claim, Miss C has continued to be reviewed by an occupational health 
advisor too. Unum has set out that the occupation health reports have been based on 
Miss Cs self-reported symptoms. I both recognise and appreciate this, but I dont think this 
means the reports in themselves should be completely excluded from consideration when 
reviewing the medical evidence in its entirety. 
I think that the opinions of the occupational health advisor are at least noteworthy, given that 
throughout their regular and ongoing involvement with Miss C theyve remained of the 
opinion that she is only fit for work with adjustments  namely with reduced hours, workloads 
and responsibilities. 
For example, in March 2020 the occupational health advisor recommended that Miss C 
remained on the current working arrangement of (x) as she is likely to struggle to cope with 
any further increase in her hours at the moment.
And in July 2020 the occupational health advisor said Miss C was, receiving the right input 
at present and it will just take some time, possibly several months, for her to regain 
confidence and the ability to manage pressures better to then be able to gradually return to 
her previous role and hours.
So again, although I appreciate the arguments that Unum as put forward, Im not persuaded 
that the medical evidence in this complaint does indicate that Miss Cs is ready to resume 
her insured occupation on a full time basis. So, I dont think Unum has yet done enough to 
demonstrate that Miss C is no longer incapacitated. And it follows that I cant fairly conclude 
it acted reasonably in ceasing this benefit when it did.
Putting things right
For the reasons I have given above, Unum need to put things right by:
Reinstating Miss Cs benefit from the date this terminated. Unum should add 8% 
simple interest to the backdated payment, from the date each payment was due to 
the date of settlement. 
Miss C should note that this payment will likely be made to her employer and not directly to 
her, as it is they who are the policyholder.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Unum Ltd must put things right in the way I 
have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman