DRN-3071887
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of his business that I will refer to as N that Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited unfairly avoided (cancelled as if it never existed) his commercial 
property insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H is the director of N. In 2020 he took out insurance with Watford for Ns premises 
through a broker. 
In May 2021 he made a claim after one of the ceilings at the building collapsed. Watford sent 
a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and subsequently wrote to Mr H to say it was avoiding 
Ns policy. It said he hadnt declared the full extent of the nature of his business when he 
took out the policy. He had said the business was a sauna, when in fact it offered other 
services and ran events of an adult nature. It said if he had declared this, it wouldnt have 
offered the policy. It said under the Insurance Act 2015 it was entitled to avoid the policy, 
however returned his policy premiums.
Mr H didnt think this was fair and made a complaint. He said he had given Watford enough 
information about the business for it to ask further questions to check it met its criteria. And 
that was all he was required to do under the Insurance Act.
Watford didnt uphold his complaint and maintained its decision about the avoidance of the 
policy.
Mr H didnt think this was fair, he said he felt Watford made the decision on moral grounds. 
He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said he thought Watford had acted fairly and in line with the Insurance Act by avoiding the 
policy.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Watford has said that Mr H misrepresented Ns risk by not accurately describing the nature 
of the business. It says it wouldnt have offered any insurance cover at all if it had. I need to 
decide if Watford has treated Mr H, on behalf of N, fairly by avoiding the policy. 
In order to determine this, I have considered the relevant law. Mr H originally took out the 
policy in 2020. So this is covered by the Insurance Act 2015. Under this act, when Mr H took 
out the policy for N, he had a duty to make a fair presentation of Ns risk to the insurer. In 
order to fulfil a fair presentation of risk, the act says a commercial policyholder must disclose 
either:
everything they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an 
insurer in deciding whether to insure the risk and on what terms, or
enough information to put an insurer on notice that it needs to make further enquiries 
about potentially material circumstances.
In this case I need to decide if Mr H met these requirements when taking out the policy for N. 
It is of note that this policy was taken out through a broker. So it was the broker who 
provided Watford with information about N. If Mr H feels the information he provided the 
broker wasnt accurately passed on to Watford, he may wish to take this up with the broker 
directly. As part of this complaint, I can only consider the information Watford had when the 
policy was taken out, and whether it acted fairly based on that. 
Watford has provided a copy of the information completed on the application form for the 
insurance. I can see it was completed as follows:
Occupancy Details
Trades Other Industrial / Commercial? Please specify
Additional Trade Information  Sauna
There were also additional comment boxes where the applicant was invited to provide 
further information, such as a website address, but no further details were given. 
Watford has said that it has since found on Ns website that it offers additional services such 
as massage, steam rooms and catering. And that some events advertised are of an adult 
nature. Its said that as only sauna was provided as the description for the business, this 
didnt provide it with all the information it needed to make a decision about offering cover.
Ive considered this and I agree this wasnt a fair presentation of the risk. While N does offer 
a sauna facility as a large part of its business, from looking at Ns website its clear there are 
many other services also provided. For example many of the events advertised include 
catering and some are of an adult nature. I think this goes beyond a reasonable 
understanding of a sauna. Based on this, I think Mr H ought to have known that describing N 
as a sauna wasnt providing a full disclosure of the risk. 
I note Mr H has said that under the Insurance Act he only has the duty to provide enough 
information to put the insurer on notice that it should make further enquiries, and it would be 
for Watford to research the business it was insuring. I have considered this but I dont think 
that he met his obligations under the act. The only description given of the business was 
sauna and I dont think this would have reasonably given Watford a reason to think further 
enquiries were necessary. 
So Im satisfied that Mr H did make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy. 
Under the act, if we conclude that the policyholder didnt provide a fair presentation of risk 
then we must go on to assess whether the breach was a qualifying one. This means that if 
the insurer had known all the information, they would have acted differently. Either by 
offering different policy terms or by not offering a policy at all. The insurer is only entitled to 
take further action if it can show that a qualifying breach has occurred.
Watford has provided this service with an extract from its underwriting guidance. And this 
shows that if it had had all the information about N when the policy was taken out, it wouldnt 
have offered the policy. So Im satisfied that there has been a qualifying misrepresentation 
under the Insurance Act, so Watford has acted fairly by avoiding Ns policy. Watford has said 
it has provided a refund of the policy premiums, so Im satisfied it has met its obligations under the act.
Mr H has said that he feels Watford has avoided the policy based on moral grounds. Having 
looked at the evidence provided Ive not seen anything to suggest this is the case. 
Businesses can choose the risk appetite they take on, and Im satisfied that Watford has 
shown that N doesnt fall into its own risk appetite. And that it would have applied the same 
criteria to all potential customers. 
Mr H has also said he feels Watford have acted in a discriminatory way, based on sexual 
orientation. This service is unable to make findings on whether or not something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal service and 
an alternative to the Courts, but only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the 
definitions set out within the act. 
Instead I have considered whether Watford has acted fairly and reasonably when avoiding 
Ns policy, and in this instance Ive found it has. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Ns complaint, 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H, on behalf of 
N, to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman