DRN-3874313
The complaint
Mr M complains about agreements taken out with Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited 
(VM).
What happened
Mr M was a customer of VM prior to the events that he complains about. In October 2021 
VM received three online applications for finance to pay for electronic devices. Each 
application was signed for with an e-signature. 
In December 2021 in response to being chased for payment Mr M contacted VM to complain 
about the agreements. His stance is that he did not apply for the finance. Moreover, the 
electronic devices were never delivered to him, and he does not have them or know where 
they are. Rather he indicates an unknown third party took out the agreements without his 
knowledge or permission, and he has been the victim of a scam. Mr M wants VM to 
acknowledge he is not responsible for taking out the agreements and stop chasing him for 
payment. 
VMs stance is that in the past Mr M had authorised his son to speak on his behalf. All of the 
agreements were sent to an email address which, on the face of it, belongs to Mr Ms son. 
Further, it points out this is the same email address that was used on previous occasions for 
transactions Mr M says he authorised. Moreover, the applicant had to pass security 
procedures that lead it to conclude Mr M or someone acting with his permission took out the 
agreements.
Moreover, according to VM its courier a third party I will call Y, has confirmed that all of the 
devices were delivered to Mr Ms home address. The devices were delivered at different 
times over several days rather than all in one go.
VM also thought it was significant that Mr M does not appear to have reported any of this to 
the police. Or at least he has not provided it with a crime reference number or any indication 
that he has reported the matter to the police.
Dissatisfied with VMs response, Mr M complained to our service.
One of investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint. Our investigator did not recommend that 
Mr Ms complaint ought to be upheld.
VM accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr M meanwhile did not. Mr M provided 
detailed responses Ive summarised Mr Ms responses below.
Mr M reiterated his earlier stance.
Mr M did not agree that there was sufficient information to show that most likely he 
entered into the agreements or authorised anyone else to enter into the agreements 
on his behalf.
He told us had tried to sort this all out without involving the police but now he would 
contact the police.
In addition, Mr M indicated that he banks only with a bank I will call B. The loan 
repayments for the agreements are to be paid by direct debit. But no direct debit 
mandate was set up on his current account with B. Which means he cant be held 
responsible for paying for the agreements. 
Later Mr M clarified that he also has an account with a third party bank I will call M. 
But whoever applied for the loans did not ask VM to set up direct debits on this 
account either. Which also goes to show he did not enter into the agreements.
Further, Mr M thought it was significant that the details of three different bank 
accounts were given by the person who applied for the agreements.
Mr M did not agree that VM had provided sufficient information to show that the 
devices were delivered to his address. In particular he indicated nothing less than 
photographic proof and evidence showing his signature would be sufficient.
Mr M told us that the at some point the password for the account that was used when 
the agreements were made had changed.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman take a fresh look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M and VM disagree about all of the key aspects of this complaint. Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The finance agreements, that is the loan agreements, in this case are regulated consumer 
credit agreements. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
agreements
I recognise that Mr M is adamant that he has been the victim of fraud and that should be the 
end of the matter. Moreover Mr M wants what he sees as fraud to be sorted out and he has 
made it clear that he looks to us to do this. Moreover, he has expressed a degree of 
frustration on several occasions that we have not approached his complaint as he has 
indicated that we should. 
However, I need to reiterate the role of this service (as our investigator already did several 
times), as it does not appear to me that Mr M has taken this on board. Fraud is a criminal 
matter. This service has no power to investigate criminal matters and make findings on 
them. What we can look at is whether VM is acting fairly in holding Mr M to the agreements. 
And that is what I will be looking at in this complaint.
However, it is not as simple as solely deciding whether it is likely that Mr M himself entered 
into the agreements. Although if I did find that is what happened Id consider it fair and 
reasonable that VM be able to hold Mr M to the agreements.Rather, Ive also got to think about whether a third party entered into the agreements with 
either Mr Ms actual or apparent authority. That is if Mr M gave that third party his consent to 
enter into the agreements on his behalf. Or if Mr M gave that third party his apparent 
authority, in that Mr M held the third party out as being authorised to enter into the contracts 
on his behalf.  And VM relied on that representation in entering into the agreements. In either 
case, if I thought Mr M had given actual or apparent authority to a third party to contract on 
his behalf, Id also find it fair and reasonable that VM could seek to enforce its rights under 
the agreements against Mr M.
Ive thought carefully about what Ive been told about the whole sequence of events from the 
applications to the delivery of the goods, to use of the devices. In particular, Ive looked at 
how the applications were made and what knowledge was required to go through the 
process. Ill go through each step of the sequence of events below.
Ive also thought about whether both Mr M and VM have provided information to support 
their stance. And I have taken particular note of where vital information has not been 
provided where, on the face of it, the parties could easily have provided that information.
It appears that the applications were made via Mr Ms online account. It seems that in order 
to access this account Mr Ms log in details for this account had to be used. Mr M tells us his 
account must have been hacked. Which is a possibility, but he has provided no evidence 
beyond his assertion that this is the case.  Mr M also tells us the password for this account 
was changed. We asked him more about this. But he did not tell us when this happened or 
anything else about the wider circumstances. In the circumstances, I think, the most likely 
explanation is that either Mr M himself or someone he had allowed to use his log-in details 
logged into Mr Ms account.
A remote application was made for each of the loans. The loans were signed for by e-
signature by putting in the last four digits of Mr Ms bank account. It is possible that a hacker 
also knew the last four digits of Mr Ms bank account. However, I have not been persuaded 
that there was a hacker. In the circumstances, the most likely explanation is that this task 
was carried out either by Mr M or someone acting with his authority or who appeared to have 
his authority.
It appears that an email account was used during the course of the applications and 
acceptance processes and this email account was the same account which Mr M had used 
previously in relation to earlier transactions he confirms he did authorise. This email account 
features the name of Mr Ms son. We asked Mr M to tell us his email address and that of his 
son. Mr M gave us his details, and these did not match the email account that was used 
here. But at first Mr M was unable to give us his sons email address. Then months after we 
asked Mr M gave us his sons email address which was different from the one used by the 
person who applied for the loans.
Mr M was clear that his son was not involved in any of the disputed applications. Mr M 
added that his son has no need to apply for loans to purchase electronic devices as he will 
soon have independent means that are sufficient to pay for such items if he wanted them. 
I note what Mr M says about his sons financial situation but that does not by itself rule him 
out. In any event, I dont have to identify who the third party was who Mr M might have 
authorised or apparently authorised to contract on his behalf.  I think it is significant that the 
email account used here is one used previously by Mr M. Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
the email account that appears to be his sons had been compromised prior to the loan 
applications. 
Once the loans were agreed VMs records show that direct debit notifications were 
generated and sent by post to Mr Ms home address. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy 
of VMs records on this point. It follows I find that it is more likely than not that these 
notifications were delivered at the time. I cant see that Mr M has specially said that he never 
received these direct debit notifications. I might have expected that if these notifications came totally out of the blue and related to agreements he knew nothing about Mr M might 
have queried these at the time. However, it appears he did not contact VM until months later.
VM tells us it ran checks against the information it received to support the loan applications, 
and these confirmed to its satisfaction that it was dealing with Mr M. I think only Mr M or 
someone authorised by him would likely have those details.
Mr M tells us that the applications and the therefore the direct debit notifications included 
details for accounts that are not his accounts. We asked Mr M to provide us with a copy of 
his credit file so we could rule out these accounts being connected to him. But he has not 
provided this information. As it stands, without the credit file information, I cant discount that 
these accounts are connected to him. 
Ys records show that the electronic devices were all delivered to Mr Ms home address. Mr 
M indicates that without proof of his signature and a photo of the delivery then there is 
nothing to show that the devices were delivered to his home. 
In addition Mr M also points out in any event no one in his family was at home during the 
time when Y says it made the deliveries. I can well understand why Mr M wants what he 
sees as the most cast-iron proof of delivery, but Y does not have the information he wants 
due to the passage of time, therefore I have to rely on the information that is available. Y 
does have delivery records, which I have seen, which show the deliveries being made to Mr 
Ms home address. On balance, I am persuaded these records demonstrate that the goods 
were delivered to his home address.
On balance Im satisfied that there was nothing about the sequence of events that ought 
reasonably have made VM question who it was dealing with and make further checks before 
proceeding which seems to be the point Mr M is making about the details of the three bank 
accounts that were given when the application was made.
Mr M did not report this matter to the police when the complaint first started. He may have 
done so now, as he said he intended to although as far as I am aware he has not sent in any 
details about the complaint he made to the police. In any event, I might have expected Mr M 
would have contacted the police in these circumstances.
For all of the reasons I have given above, Im satisfied that the agreements were made on 
balance either by Mr M or by a third party with his actual or apparent authority. It follows, I 
have no proper basis to say VM acted inappropriately in entering into the agreements. 
Neither can I fairly say VM cannot rely on the agreements and VM must cease trying to 
enforce the contracts against Mr M and cancel them. It also follows that I do not uphold this 
complaint.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with VM informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M any 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman