DRN-2724847
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Topaz Finance Limited trading as Heliodor Mortgages is holding 
Mr S liable for a loan balance when it agreed to a partial settlement.
 
What happened
Mrs S via her representative I will call C made Heliodor an offer to settle a joint unsecured 
loan she had with Mr S. The outstanding loan balance was about £3,400 and the offer by C 
was for about £2,433. Mrs S made the payment and says it was on the basis the loan would 
no longer be pursued against her or Mr S but she found out some months later that Heliodor 
still held Mr S liable for his share of the loan. Mrs S says that is unfair and would like 
compensation for the distress she has been caused and for the loan balance to be written 
off. Mrs S also complains about the loan interest rate now that an agreement has ended.
Heliodor says it agreed to the offer from Mrs S and says it made clear it would clear her 
liability and report her position to the Credit Reference Agencies. It says there was no 
agreement in respect of Mr S and Cs offer letter was on behalf of Mrs S only. And it was 
entitled to charge interest when the agreement ended.
The complaint was brought to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the communication could have been clearer on both sides but didnt think there was 
any evidence Heliodor had agreed to write off the whole debt following Mrs Ss settlement 
offer. The investigator thought Heliodor was entitled to charge interest when the agreement 
plan ended.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and C on her behalf says Heliodors letter in response to the 
offer was misleading and says it knew that Mr and Mrs S were divorced. And Mr S was not 
told about his liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I realise 
Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision. I appreciate this is a complaint in joint names as 
the loan is in joint names but also appreciate this complaint is largely brought by Mrs S and I 
have not received any information from Mr S about what he says about it.
I have carefully looked at Cs letter to Heliodor in April 2020 and Im satisfied that no mention 
was made about Mr S and C made clear it acted on Mrs Ss behalf. I have also looked at 
Heliodors response and am satisfied it made clear that it would accept the offer in respect of 
her liability and went on to say her credit file would be amended. Im satisfied that 
Heliodor didnt say the offer was accepted in respect of both Mr and Mrs S and the letter 
went on to say the other loan would continue where both Mr and Mrs S were jointly liable for 
it. So, I dont think Heliodor acted unfairly or made a mistake by deciding it still holds Mr S 
liable for the remainder of the loan and that its entitled to do so. I accept that C questions 
why Mrs S would offer more than 50% of the outstanding loan in these circumstances but I 
think it could have checked the position.
Im satisfied that Heliodor is entitled to charge interest when the agreement ended but, in 
any event, I find that decision doesnt have any impact on Mrs S as she is no longer liable for 
the loan. I also think that Heliodors decision doesnt have any real impact on Mrs S as its 
clear it holds Mr S liable for the loan balance. I can see that Heliodor has written to Mr S and 
it will be up to him to discuss repayment and or the interest rate if he wishes to. I dont think 
it matters if Heliodor knew the parties were divorced.
I can see that Heliodor has fairly agreed to separate Mrs Ss repayments correctly as she is 
no longer paying for the unsecured loan and if there are further problems in the future, then 
Mrs S will need to make a new complaint about that. 
Overall, I find that Heliodor has dealt fairly with this complaint and I dont require it to do 
anything further in the circumstances of it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman