DRN-2564394
The complaint
Mrs B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
horse insurance policy. AXA is the insurer here so carries ultimate responsibility, but much of 
the handling has been done on their behalf by a company known as AIUA. So, references to 
AXA will include the actions of AIUA.
What happened
Mrs B took out an AXA insurance policy for her horse, C. And in October 2018, Mrs B 
submitted a claim for treatment related to contracted tendons, which had recently been 
discovered by a farrier.
AXA declined the claim, first linking the issue back to a previous claim for laminitis. The 
previous claim had been paid but an exclusion had been added on subsequent renewals. 
And the exclusion was still in place on the 2018 policy.
Mrs B explained that the contracted tendons and laminitis are separate issue, and while the 
cause may have been the same the conditions arent.
AXA then reviewed Cs veterinary history. They noted a number of issues that they said they 
hadnt been told about, and in view of this they retrospectively applied exclusions to the 
policy in relation to Cs feet. Because of the exclusion they wouldnt overturn their decision to 
decline Mrs Bs claim.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They first recommended Mrs Bs complaint be 
upheld in relation to the claim. Citing that there was nothing definitively linking the contracted 
tendons and the laminitis. She also felt the retrospective application of the exclusions was 
unfair.
AXA provided further evidence to show their process for adding exclusions retrospectively, 
and they pointed to a number of entries on Cs veterinary history. They say that they should 
have been informed of those and, if they had been, they wouldve requested the veterinary 
history and  on review  added the exclusions.
The investigator accepted this argument and explained to Mrs B why she felt the case could 
no longer be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said some of the entries on the veterinary history are simple 
observations made by the vet and not things she was necessarily advised of. Mrs B also 
said some of the issues were minor, and common in horses, so she wouldnt think they were 
things the insurer would want to know about.
Further, Mrs B said she wouldnt think there was any need to redeclare conditions which 
already had an exclusion in place. And finally, Mrs B said she was never asked any 
questions about Cs health anyway.
Mrs B did originally have some other complaint issues but, as she accepted the 
investigators view on those, I dont intend to address them here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent upheld Mrs Bs complaint, I appreciate thatll be very disappointing to read but Ill 
explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mrs B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
renewing her policy. They say she was asked clear questions about Cs health in 2016, 2017 
and 2018.
The 2016 renewal documents included the following statement:
Please note that failure to disclose all material facts which have changed or arisen since the 
inception or last renewal of your Policy could invalidate your insurance.
Material facts are those facts an Insurer would regard as likely to influence the acceptance 
and assessment of your insurance. If you are in any doubt whether a fact is material you 
should disclose it. All disclosures should be in writing.
I dont know whether or not Mrs B saw this, as she said she was never asked about Cs 
health at renewal, only when the policy was first taken out. In any event, I dont think the 
above wording is clear nor specific enough to make a consumer think they need to tell the 
insurer about all instances relating to their horses health.
And I understand why, if Mrs B had read it, she would not have felt the need to redeclare 
health issues which had already been excluded.
However, the 2017 and 2018 renewal documents were clearer, they said:
IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING CHANGES TO YOUR POLICY
Please tell your Insurance Advisor of any changes to your circumstances, whether 
temporary or permanent, which may affect your insurance cover.
It goes on to give examples, two of which were:Have you called a veterinary surgeon to your horse(s) in the last 12 months other than for 
routine vaccinations?
Has your horse(s) suffered any illness or injury within the last 12 months where you did not 
make a claim on your policy or seek treatment for?
I appreciate Mrs B has made a point of the word changes being used, in her view there 
werent any and existing conditions already excluded were ongoing. Again, I dont know 
whether Mrs B saw these questions, but I think theyre clear enough that if she had done, 
shed have been aware that AXA wanted to know about Cs health.
Having decided that, Ive gone on to think about whether there was anything for Mrs B to 
declare. Ive been provided with a copy of Cs veterinary history, and I think there was. 
Before I go into that though Id like to acknowledge that Im aware Mrs B is, or at least was, 
in a separate dispute with the vet practice. I dont know all of the specifics of that but note 
that AXA has said:
if there is any new Veterinary Reports history the client would like us to consider from the 
treating Vets then we are happy to review
In view of this, if Mrs Bs action against the vet practice leads to any new and relevant 
information she may be able to return to AXA for their review.
The reason I say I believe there were issues for Mrs B to declare are because theres 
reference in the veterinary notes to numerous visits from a veterinary surgeon across the 12 
months that preceded the 2017 and 2018 renewals. And while some of these may have 
included routine vaccinations that wasnt always the reason, or sole reason.
I appreciate what Mrs B has said about some being minor things and some being 
observations, and that she wouldnt have known exactly what the vet had written. I also 
appreciate some of them were already excluded, and I understand why Mrs B might not 
have felt it important to redeclare those. But the question is quite open in my view, asking 
about call outs in the last 12 months  so if Mrs B was in doubt  I think its reasonable to 
say she ought to have made enquiries as to what was or wasnt of importance to AXA.
I think its worth restating at this point, that Mrs B said she wasnt asked any questions about 
Cs health at renewal. I note the policy was renewed through an insurance intermediary, or 
broker. In some of their documentation it confirms that:
In the sourcing and placing of this policy and in the event of a claim we will be acting as 
your agent.
So, if Mrs B feels the insurance intermediary has in some way failed her, by not passing on 
the questions, then she would have to contact them in the first instance.
As Mrs B didnt provide AXA with an up to date picture of Cs health at renewal, I have to 
consider whether that was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, i.e. would AXA have 
done anything differently if they had known about the call outs.
AXA has provided evidence to show that had they been made aware of Cs ongoing health 
conditions they wouldve asked for a copy of the veterinary history. And that upon reading it 
they wouldve added exclusions which wouldve applied to the contracted tendon issue. Im 
unable to share AXAs underwriting criteria with Mrs B, as its confidential, but Im satisfied 
based on what Ive seen that this would have been the case.I note Mrs Bs belief that AXA ought to have requested the veterinary history, and that thats 
a failure on their part. But, Ive not seen anything to make me think thats their usual process. 
Rather, thats done where health information provided by the consumer gives rise to 
concerns about the risk being undertaken.
Overall, Im satisfied that AXA hasnt unfairly declined Mrs Bs claim. I can understand why it 
feels that way to her, I accept that Mrs B was making the claim in good faith as she wasnt 
aware of the contracted tendons until after the 2018 renewal. And while its moot, given the 
exclusions, I dont think AXA had adequately shown the tendon issue to be linked to the 
laminitis.
I would also like to state that I dont believe Mrs B has deliberately withheld information from 
AXA. And I can see that Mrs B gave a very detailed account of Cs history when she was 
first taking out the policy. But that doesnt mean AXA should pay the claim in dispute.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman