DRN-4396600
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K have a travel insurance policy underwritten by UKI.
They booked a holiday which they had to cancel as Mr K was too unwell to travel. They 
made a claim which UKI declined as it said Mr K was under investigation when the trip was 
booked and therefore there was no cover under the terms of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs K complained to UKI and unhappy with its response, referred their complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it as UKI had declined the claim 
in line with the terms and conditions. 
Mr and Mrs K disagreed and in summary, have made the following comments:
Mr K had not been referred to hospital or a specialist when he first saw the doctor
The doctor should be asked for a timeline 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms under specific exclusions include: Any claim due to an illness or 
injury that is under investigation.
The above specific exclusion is again included in the cancellation section under the 
you are not covered for and we wont pay for headings.
The policy definitions define Under investigation as follows: You have been 
informed by your doctor that your symptoms require you to be referred for further 
tests or to a specialist to get a diagnosis.
Mr Ks GP has completed a form which says he first consulted him on 3 January 
2023 and was under investigation. Mr and Mrs K have said that the GP thought Mr K 
had a vitamin deficiency and he wasnt being investigated for anything serious. It was 
only later on that he was under investigation for a serious health condition. 
Having considered the above, I dont think UKI declined the claim unfairly as Mr K 
was under investigation. Even if he thought he had a vitamin deficiency, he was 
referred for blood tests, and so this meets the definition of under investigation in the 
policy. I havent seen any contradictory evidence which shows that Mr K wasnt under 
investigation from 3 January 2023.
Mrs K says I should contact the doctor and ask for a timeline but I dont think this 
would make a difference. Even though Mr and Mrs K didnt know Mr K had a serious 
illness on 3 January, they knew there was something not right and he saw the doctor 
and was having tests. The evidence shows investigations started on 3 January 2023, 
before the holiday was booked. And so the exclusion applies. 
Im sorry to hear of Mr Ks illness but I dont think UKI has done anything wrong so I 
cant fairly ask it to accept the claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman