DRN-1726903
 
Complaint          
Mr and Mrs A complain that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
Although the policy was sold by Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
are now responsible for this complaint so the complaint has been set up against them.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Lloyds in my decision.
Background
Mr and Mrs A took out a mortgage in 2001. They were sold PPI in connection with this 
mortgage. In 2003, Mr and Mrs A took out a further advance and were sold PPI in 
connection with this further advance. 
The policy provided Mr and Mrs A with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It 
would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and                
Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs A were eligible for the policies. Im satisfied 
they were eligible based on their age and circumstances at the time of the sales.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that PPI was optional and needed their consent 
for it to be applied to their account. Mr and Mrs A say theyre unsure whether they even 
signed for PPI.
Lloyds have provided various documents from the time of the sales. These include the 
mortgage application form from 2001. I can see that there was a separate section for 
insurance and within this section Mr and Mrs A were presented with equally clear options as 
to whether or not to take PPI and it appears Mr and Mrs A ticked to take PPI out. Ive also 
seen copies of the actual separate PPI application forms from the time of the sales in 2001 
and 2003, completed and signed by Mr and Mrs A. So I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A would have been aware that PPI was optional 
and that it was only applied to the account because they chose to take it out.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr and Mrs A to take out the policies. This means they had to 
take adequate steps to ensure PPI was suitable for them. I dont know whether they took all 
the steps as they should have but based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs As circumstances 
at the time, I think it was suitable for them.  I say this because:
 
The policies were in joint names and the policy split, apparently chosen by Mr and 
Mrs A, seems appropriate given the proportion of the household income Mr and Mrs 
A each earned.
 
Mrs A didnt appear to have been affected by the more restrictive terms/main 
exclusions in the policies so it looks like she could have made a successful claim 
under the policies if the need arose. Mr A has told us about a medical condition he 
suffered from at the time of the sales. Under the terms of the policies, he wouldnt 
have been able to make a claim for this condition. But it appears that the condition 
was well controlled and Mr A hadnt needed to take time off work for it. The condition 
was described by Mr and Mrs A as mild and Mr A no longer requires medication for 
it. So it seems unlikely that Mr A would have needed to take time off work sick for this 
condition. So I dont think the exclusion relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
made PPI unsuitable for him. And Mr A could of course have used the PPI for any 
other conditions and also if he lost his job. 
 
Mr and Mrs A have told us about their generous employee sickness benefits. 
However, the PPI would have paid out in addition to these and would have been 
particularly useful when their income reduced to half. The PPI was protecting a 
valuable asset and repeated claims under the policies would have been possible.
 
Mr and Mrs A have also told us about savings and that their family could have helped 
them. But these other sources werent guaranteed and circumstances change. So I 
dont think these made the policies unsuitable for Mr and Mrs A.
 
The PPI appears to have been affordable to Mr and Mrs A at the time of the sale. 
 
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs A, Lloyds also had to give them 
clear enough information so that they could make an informed decision as to whether or not 
to take it out, in particular about the costs, benefits and main exclusions under the policy.
I dont know if Lloyds did give Mr and Mrs A all of the information as they should have. But 
this in itself doesnt mean that the policies were mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking PPI out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons that I think the policies were suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs A 
this PPI policy.
My final decisionI dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman