DRN-1688954
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has handled a 
claim made under their buildings insurance for an escape of water. They complain that:
Their policy has been changed to one with a matching sets exclusion without their 
knowledge or permission. 
There have been delays in the progression of their claim.
The contractors carrying out work on their property have caused additional damage. 
They have been in a hotel for many weeks with no suitable alternative 
accommodation found despite this being in their policy.  
 
Mr and Mrs D have raised further concerns about the handling of their claim since referring 
their complaint to this office, including but not limited to further delays, a dispute about the 
costs that Mr and Mrs D are responsible for, the quality of work carried out and the surveyor 
missing damage as a result of the escape of water. Whilst I understand their further 
concerns, as these matters happened after they referred their complaint to this office, they 
aren't matters I can consider within this complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have had their buildings insurance with Lloyds Insurance for a number of 
years. In March 2019, they had cause to claim when a leak was discovered in their shower 
cubicle which resulted in tiles coming away from the wall. They submitted a claim to Lloyds 
Insurance who sent out a surveyor to inspect the damage. 
The surveyor identified damage as a result from a leak in the shower cubicle. This had 
caused damage in the bathroom and kitchen which would require a strip out of each room. 
Because of that the surveyor agreed to arrange alternative accommodation from 7 April 
2019. Initially that was in a hotel whilst a longer-term solution was found. 
A company, which I'll call "A", was asked to find accommodation for the family. Although it 
found a number of properties, these weren't suitable as they were too far away; wouldn't 
have been appropriate for school and didn't have secure parking, which Mr D says was a 
condition of his motor insurance. Mr and Mrs D also found some properties were in a 
location with high crime rates and vandalism. So the hotel booking was extended and larger 
rooms found for them as one daughter and Mrs D were studying. As well as A looking for 
suitable properties, Mr and Mrs D were asked to look as well. 
Mr and Mrs D paid the excess under their policy and work started on their property, starting 
with the strip out. During this, another escape of water from the bathroom was discovered.  
Lloyds Insurance treated it as part of this claim. A further scope of work was required and 
more damage needed to be repaired. 
As there was quite a bit of water damage and damp and wet areas, Mr and Mrs D's property 
needed drying. Drying equipment was installed on 1 May 2019 and it was completed by 17 
May 2019. Mr and Mrs D discovered their property had been damaged during the work 
carried out so far - there was damage to doors, carpets, laminate flooring, crockery and a window ledge. And after carrying out his own inspection following concerns about some of 
the details in the survey report, Mr D discovered the water damage was far more extensive 
than previously reported. 
Lloyds Insurance agreed to extend the scope of work to include the further damage Mr D 
discovered. But this led to further complications as it required the removal of the boiler, 
which in turn needed the expertise of a roofer as the flue had been riveted in. Mr and Mrs D 
also needed to make selections for the replacement of the bathroom tiles and suite, and the 
kitchen cabinets. They were informed they didn't have matching sets cover and so Lloyds 
Insurance would only contribute 50% towards the costs of replacing undamaged items.  
Mr and Mrs D found a 4-bedroom property which would have been suitable for their needs. 
Although Lloyds Insurance agreed they could stay there, the property went as the agent 
didn't return any calls. And although a possible property was found in their village the 
landlord didn't have a gas safety certificate or public liability insurance; so Lloyds Insurance 
couldn't guarantee their safety. So the family continued to stay in the hotel with their 
additional costs being reimbursed. 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs D complained about the progress of their claim. They were 
unhappy with the delays, that appropriate accommodation hadn't been found, their policy 
had been changed without their permission and that the builders working on their home and 
damaged their property and furnishings. 
Lloyds Insurance upheld their complaint in part. It agreed there had been delays and offered 
£150 compensation because of Mr and Mrs D not being kept updated and them having to 
chase for information. But it didn't think it had done anything wrong in regard to the matching 
sets exclusion or the alternative accommodation. It made no comment about the additional 
damage they had suffered. 
Our investigator found that Lloyds Insurance had fairly resolved the complaint. She was 
satisfied the offer made was fair for the delays; and that Lloyds Insurance had made 
reasonable attempts to find alternative accommodation. She was also satisfied the exclusion 
clause was clear in Mr and Mrs D's renewal documents since 2016. 
I issued my provisional decision on 24 February 2020 setting out why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint. In summary, I found that:
Mr and Mrs D ought to have been aware of their policy terms and conditions as this 
was set out in the renewal documents. 
I upheld the complaint that Mr and Mrs Ds property had been damaged and I asked 
Lloyds Insurance to pay an additional £150 compensation for the additional distress 
this would have caused. 
I found there was a possible suitable property in Mr and Mrs Ds local area that 
hadnt been offered which might have reduced their time in a hotel, so I was minded 
to award another £250 compensation. 
Lloyds Insurance replied. It agreed to pay Mr and Mrs D an additional £150 for the damage 
to their property and personal belongings. But it provided evidence to show it did offer Mr 
and Mrs D the three-bedroom property in their local area and this was declined due to a cat 
allergy. 
Mr D asked for an update. I explained both parties had until 24 March to respond to my 
provisional findings and we hadnt heard from him to date. I also explained Lloyds Insurance had provided evidence to show it had offered the three-bedroom property in their local area 
and so I was no longer minded to ask it to pay £250. 
Mr D was unhappy with this. He said there were many reasons for not accepting the 
properties offered, as they posed a viable risk not only for him but also his family. He was 
advised it wasnt unreasonable to decline properties if they posed endangerment. He feels 
his family and his own health conditions havent been taken into account within the 
assessment. 
I respond to the points made in the body of my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D have made a number of complaint points, which I think will be easiest to 
respond to in turn. 
the change made to their policy
I understand they have held their home insurance through Halifax (now part of the Lloyds 
group) for a number of years. Mr and Mrs D have argued their policy used to cover them for 
matching sets and complain their policy has been changed without their knowledge or 
permission. They believe this change took place in around 2016.
Lloyds Insurance said Mr and Mrs D arranged the policy they have in branch and that it was 
tailored to what they wanted at the time.  It's difficult to know now, what happened then or 
why, as Mr and Mrs D are adamant they didn't authorise this change.  But I do need to take 
into account that the renewal documents, since 2016, show they don't have matching sets 
cover. This is set out the general exclusions section of the keyfacts document. The renewal 
letter does ask Mr and Mrs D to review the documentation carefully. I'm satisfied they had 
sufficient information in their possession to understand their basis of cover and were told 
what they needed to do if they wanted to make changes. 
As Mr and Mrs D didn't change the basis of their cover, it would be difficult for me to fairly 
ask Lloyds Insurance to provide cover which they didn't have and haven't paid a premium 
for. Where policyholders don't have matching sets cover, we do expect insurers to make a 
contribution towards additional costs a policy holder may face in replacing undamaged items 
because they matched with damaged items. And we usually find that a 50% contribution is 
fair. I can see that Lloyds has already offered to contribute 50% towards the cost of replacing 
undamaged items. As that is already in line with how we would approach these 
circumstances, I find what it has agreed to do is fair.  I'm not requiring it to do anything 
further in regard to this part of the complaint. 
delays in progression of the claim
My consideration here is limited to the delays which occurred prior to the final response of 7 
June 2019. It doesn't take into account any delays which may have happened after then or 
as a result of Mr and Mrs D identifying additional areas of damage which they later 
complained ought to have been identified during the initial inspections. 
Lloyds Insurance accepts that it didn't always progress matters as it could have done and 
didn't keep Mr and Mrs D updated as often as it should. So it agrees it got things wrong and 
offered them £150 compensation for the resulting inconvenience. As with all claims of this nature, identifying the damage, putting together a scope of works 
and then starting the work does all take time. This is the very nature of remedying damage 
as a result of an escape of water. And to make matters worse, the overall scope of the claim 
increased because whilst strip out work was carried out for the initial leak, another was 
discovered. This meant that the scope of work needed to be redone and further 
consideration given to how repairs were going to be conducted.
I wouldn't make an award for the natural time it takes for a claim to be progressed. But I 
would if I could see that matters hadn't progressed as they should or if policyholders needed 
to keep getting in touch to find out what was happening. Overall, I'm satisfied the £150 
offered is a fair reflection of the impact caused by the delays and poor communication to the 
point of its final response. 
Contractors have caused additional damage
Mr and Mrs D complained that the contractors caused additional damage to their property 
and belongings while carrying out works. It would appear further damage has been caused 
whilst we have been considering this complaint. My consideration here is limited to the 
concerns raised before Lloyds Insurance it issued its final response of 7 June 2019 - albeit it 
never responded to. 
Mr and Mrs D have a right to expect their property to be treated with care and respect whilst 
work was being carried out; and that items be protected where necessary. Although Lloyds 
Insurance has agreed to arrange a deep clean of the property once works are completed, I 
don't think this goes far enough to compensate Mr and Mrs D. There were a number of items 
damaged, including but not limited to, deep scratches to the laminate floor, a kitchen and 
bathroom door damaged, crockery broken and a bedroom carpet damaged. I understand 
Lloyds Insurance is putting right the damage and replacing items where necessary. But I 
think it must have been distressing for Mr and Mrs D to see their belongings treated without 
care. They were already going through a difficult time due to the circumstances of the claim 
itself, and so I think the contractors lack of care has added to the distress they were already 
experiencing. 
I think this additional distress is something Mr and Mrs D should be compensated for, and 
I require Lloyds Insurance to pay them an additional £150.  Im pleased to see Lloyds 
Insurance has agreed to pay this.  
alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs D complain they had been in a hotel despite their policy providing them with 
alternative accommodation. And they say they were told they would be offered a like-for-like 
property to their own. 
They are correct their policy does provide for alternative accommodation. And there is no 
dispute that their home was uninhabitable as a result of the escape of water and the work 
that needed completing. The policy says:
Alternative accommodation
If your home is made uninhabitable by any cause under 'building's cover', we will pay for:
up to two years ground rent which you or your family has to pay.
Rent you should have received but have lost.
The costs of similar alternative accommodation for you, your family and your 
domestic pets while you cannot live in your home.So under the terms of the policy Mr and Mrs D and their family, were entitled to similar 
alternative accommodation for them and their pets. However, I do need to take into account 
that Mr and Mrs D live semi-rurally. And I can see from the file that both Lloyds Insurance 
and they had problems with trying to find alternative accommodation.
I don't think it would be reasonable to expect an insurer to be able to provide policyholders 
with exactly the same kind of property, in the same area, as they were living in. And I do 
think there needs to be some give or take in the type of property or location. But I also need 
to take into account that Lloyds Insurance was aware of where Mr and Mrs D were living 
when agreeing to provide cover. 
A spent a lot of time trying to find Mr and Mrs D suitable properties. I'm given to understand 
they declined 12 three-bedroom properties they were offered (and some two-bed). Some of 
these were declined because one of their daughters would have had problems travelling to 
and from school. But it appears others were declined because Mr and Mrs D didn't think the 
locations were desirable or because they were too far from their local area. We do expect 
families to be able to continue with the usual everyday activities, but alternative 
accommodation is temporary and there does need to be compromise.  I think Mr and Mrs D 
could have compromised which would have meant a shorter stay in a hotel. 
In my provisional decision I required Lloyds Insurance to pay Mr and Mrs D £250 as it 
appeared there was a three-bedroom property in their local area that hadnt been offered to 
them. And this could have reduced the time they were in a hotel. Lloyds Insurance has now 
provided evidence this property was actually offered although it wasnt suitable due to Mr Ds 
cat allergy.  As the property was offered I no longer require Lloyds Insurance to pay £250. 
I accept that it wouldnt be suitable for Mr D or his family to accept a property if it meant any 
of them would suffer ill health. But from the information provided, this is the only occasion 
that a property was declined for health reasons. Other reasons have included ease of getting 
to school, which is understandable, and undesirability of the area.  As mentioned before, 
there does need to be give and take and a recognition that any property offered is 
temporary. Im satisfied that Lloyds Insurance and A tried on numerous occasions to find Mr 
and Mrs D a property they would find acceptable. 
Putting things right
Lloyds Insurance has already offered Mr and Mrs D £150 for the inconvenience delays have 
caused. I don't think that goes far enough. I require Lloyds Insurance to pay them £150, in 
addition to the £150 already offered (so a total of £300), to compensate them for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
 My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman