DRN-2860395
The complaint
Mr B complains about how esure Insurance Limited administered his motor insurance policy. 
He wants it to pay him £500 compensation.
 
What happened
Mr Bs civil partner was a named driver on his motor policy, and they shared a home 
insurance policy with esure. Mr B and his partner separated and asked esure to take Mr Bs 
name off the home policy. Mr B also asked esure to change his address on the motor policy. 
But Mr B later found that esure had removed his name from the motor policy and transferred 
it to his partner. Mr B then took out temporary cover so that he could drive his car.
esure said there had been an administrative error. It reimbursed Mr B £129.99 for the cost of 
the temporary cover hed taken out. And it offered him £100 compensation. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures offer 
of compensation wasnt sufficient for the impact its error had had on Mr B. He thought it 
should offer a further £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
esure replied that it had told Mr B that he would be indemnified to drive his car throughout 
the time he wasnt named on the policy. It thought its offer of reimbursement and 
compensation was sufficient. esure asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a business makes a mistake, as esure accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer. 
I can see that esure refunded the cost of the temporary cover Mr B took out. I think that was 
fair and reasonable as he wouldnt have incurred this except for esures error. Mr B also 
wanted a refund of the premiums hed paid whilst not named on the policy. But I dont think 
this would be fair as esure has told Mr B that hes indemnified for this time. And I think he 
would have had to pay for cover in any case as he couldnt drive whilst uninsured. 
esure offered Mr B £100 compensation as an apology for the inconvenience caused. But I 
dont think this is sufficient in the circumstances for the following reasons:
Mr Bs ex-partner had access to his personal information, including his new address. He 
thought this was a breach of his personal and sensitive data. 
It took over two weeks for esure to resolve and correct this error during which time Mr B 
was caused avoidable stress. 
Mr B and his ex-partner were required to speak to esure whilst they were in the same 
room, passing the phone back and forth. Mr B thought this was against the governments 
pandemic regulations at the time as they were then in separate households. 
And Mr B has explained that this was extremely uncomfortable for him due to their 
separation. 
Mr B was told he couldnt drive his car for five days as he was uninsured when Mr B 
needed the car as he was on call for essential work. He said he told esure this, but it 
wanted to review the calls made to change the names on the policy. And it wouldnt 
expedite this. This caused Mr B additional stress. 
And Mr B was put to the inconvenience and cost (which esure has reimbursed) of taking 
out temporary insurance. 
I think esures offer of £100 compensation is enough for the inconvenience caused. But I 
dont think esure has considered the impact the error, and its resolution, had on Mr B. The 
investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr B £200 further compensation to take 
this into account. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in 
similar circumstances. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £200 further compensation (£300 in total) for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its level of service. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman