DRN-1249678
 
The complaint
 Mr D complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited (Evergreen) was irresponsible to 
lend him money he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened 
Mr D took out four loans with Evergreen - heres a table showing details: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount 
Highest 
     Repayment
1 15/11/2017 28/02/2018 4 £200.00 £72.03
2 02/03/2018 04/07/2018 5 £400.00 £135.80
3 11/07/2018 31/08/2018 2 £200.00 £125.16
4 03/09/2018 30/04/2019 4 £250.00 £96.78
 
Mr D said Evergreen didnt carry out necessary creditworthiness checks which wouldve 
showed he had many loans with other lenders.
 Our adjudicator didnt think hed seen enough to say that Evergreen shouldnt have provided 
loan 1 to Mr D. But he felt that Evergreen shouldnt have provided loans 2-4 to Mr D, given 
that he was committed to repaying multiple loans with other short-term lenders at the time.
Evergreen mainly said it did proportionate checks  and whilst we might say it should've 
looked at all the information it had, it was impractical to review every line of a credit file for 
every loan. Evergreen told us that in the early stages of a lending relationship its processes 
are automated.
Evergreen has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Evergreen should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
 
Evergreen was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Evergreen asked Mr D to provide details of his income and to tell Evergreen what he 
normally spent each month. Evergreen has sent us a copy of its credit checks. 
I dont think Evergreen was wrong to lend Mr D loan 1. As this was his first loan with 
Evergreen, at this early stage, Mr D didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted Evergreen to any underlying money problems. The information Evergreen 
had gathered about Mr Ds finances suggested that he was able to afford this borrowing. 
I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr D provided, or that Evergreen had 
recorded enough other information, to make it realise that it shouldve taken steps to check 
the information Mr D had declared before agreeing to lend to him. 
So I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1. And as Mr D hasnt raised any objection to 
the adjudicators recommendation in relation to the loan 1, I dont think that I need to say 
more about it.  
But Evergreen could see from the credit checks it did that Mr D had multiple other short term 
high cost loans outstanding when he asked to borrow loan 2 from Evergreen. 
Looking at what Evergreen knew about Mr Ds income and expenditure, Mr D appeared to 
have more than £400 of disposable income when he was applying for loan 2. 
But that information is clearly at odds with him borrowing from multiple short term lenders. 
Ive carefully considered what Evergreen has said about this. But I think that as it had 
information that showed the extent of Mr Ds other short term borrowing this should 
reasonably have led Evergreen to the conclusion that the information Mr D had provided 
about his finances was highly inaccurate and that it was likely that Mr D was facing serious 
problems managing his money.
I dont think it was reasonable for Evergreen to conclude that it was likely Mr D would be 
able to repay loan 2, or any subsequent loan, in a sustainable way. 
The fact that Evergreen did in fact decline a number of other loan applications made by Mr D 
doesn't mean that the loans it did provide were affordable and fairly loaned to him. For the 
reasons I've explained, I think Evergreen shouldve also declined Mr Ds application for 
loan 2 and not lent him anything further.
Putting things right  what Evergreen should do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2-4, not including anything Evergreen has already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr D the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Evergreen has recorded on Mr Ds credit file for 
loans 2-4.
 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. Evergreen 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct Evergreen Finance London Limited to take the 
steps set out above to put things right for Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2020.Susan Webb
Ombudsman