DRN-3798944
The complaint
Mr W has complained PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie, SCA wont refund transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr W noticed transactions on his PayPal account that hed not made. This 
included a foreign payment which raised his suspicions. He complained to PayPal but they 
believed hed made the transactions. Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence which included PayPal saying the IP address used 
matched Mr Ws. Overall she felt that Mr W must have made the transactions as she couldnt 
see any point of compromise.
Mr W remained unhappy and has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 2 November 2022. I believed the evidence wasnt 
sufficient to show Mr W had authorised the four disputed transactions. I asked PayPal to 
refund Mr W along with 8% simple interest.
Mr W accepted this outcome. PayPal didnt. They believed as their business operated 
worldwide, the transaction I believed was unusual wasnt at all. They also confirmed emails 
had been sent to Mr W at the time of these transactions and at least one of these had been 
opened.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why and respond to points PayPal raised where applicable.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ws complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Other factors do apply but 
nothing else specific in Mr Ws case.
I should also mention PayPal, in their response to the provisional decision, state there is no 
evidence to support Mr Ws view the transactions are unauthorised. I disagree as there is 
evidence showing a phone number change for which theres been no satisfactory 
explanation. More importantly the PSRs require the payment services provider to provide 
evidence that the payment service user authorised the transactions rather than the payment 
service user to show they didnt.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what PayPal and Mr W have told us, including PayPals response to the provisional 
decision.
Mr W has disputed four transactions made on three different dates in December 2021. There 
were two other transactions  where the amounts were refunded  which Mr W also 
confirmed werent his.
Two of the disputed transactions were personal payments (although one was refunded). One 
payment was made in Russian roubles which Id have expected to act immediately as a red 
flag for disputed transactions. This doesnt mean alone that Mr W didnt make the payment, 
just that this should be considered as highly unusual.
I accept PayPals comments that they operate worldwide but some transactions do look 
more unusual than others and I believe this one met that description.
PayPal has said that one of the retailers involved was a retailer Mr W has used before. He 
doesnt dispute this. But Im not sure that is sufficient evidence as use of this retailer by any 
customer wouldnt be considered unusual. I would also add that unfortunately this retailer 
has historically been used by fraudsters for their transactions. 
I also note the evidence shows goods ordered at the time of these disputed transactions 
were delivered elsewhere, nowhere near Mr Ws location. PayPal believes the evidence 
shows this to be a central distribution centre. I dont dispute that but Id still expect to see 
clear evidence of goods delivered to Mr Ws address in this case.
The other transaction was a purchase made through an online marketplace. The information 
PayPal gave us confirmed goods were delivered to Mr Ws home address, but Mr W is 
insistent that nothing was delivered to him.
Although our investigator said the IP address used for the disputed transactions were all the 
same and matched Mr Ws, Im not sure this is the case. The two retailer payments were 
made using different IP addresses and Ive seen nothing which shows this matches an 
address of Mr Ws. PayPal has shown a consistent visitor ID being used, but this wouldnt be 
unexpected if someone had been able to access Mr Ws account.
Ive looked at the disputed transactions. It would appear to me that these would all match 
potential fraudulent behaviour. I do wonder though why an unknown third party would target 
and use Mr Ws account for such limited use.
Mr Ws evidence throughout has been consistent. I dont understand why someone whos 
had a PayPal account for many years would suddenly dispute transactions theyd made 
themselves. This doesnt seem to match with what I know of Mr W.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could have got hold of Mr Ws PayPal account 
details and use these fraudulently  particularly when I see Mr Ws email address remained 
on the account. Mr W has told us that he only received emails about the transactions on 
28 December and hes shared his evidence on this with us. PayPal has shown emails were sent for all transactions and that Mr W potentially opened an 
email on 16 December. This related to a transaction that was subsequently cancelled so I 
dont believe this evidence as convincing as PayPal may hope.
Im aware what Mr W told us about a new mobile phone being set up on his account prior to 
the disputed transactions. At the time this happened, Mr W was away so I agree its unlikely 
he did this. PayPal has told us this was done using the correct account security but this 
alone doesnt mean this was done by Mr W. And I see no logic for him having done this.
There are obviously inconsistencies here which I dont believe PayPal has explained. I am 
satisfied that there are scenarios how Mr Ws PayPal account could have been 
compromised.
On balance Im not satisfied theres sufficient evidence to show Mr W authorised these 
transactions. 
Putting things right
As I dont believe Mr W authorised the transactions, PayPal must refund Mr W and add 8% 
simple interest to those amounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie, SCA 
to:
Refund Mr W for the four disputed transactions in December 2021; and
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the dates they debited his account to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman