DRN-3125257
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont consider a claim 
in respect of repairs done under their building warranty.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C own a flat in a block. They held a building warranty policy with NHBC, which 
had been transferred to them by the previous owner when they bought the property. The 
warranty itself expired in 2018. In 2016 NHBC had carried out remedial work which included 
crack and structural repairs to ground floor flats and communal areas. In respect of Mr and 
Mrs Cs flat, which was on the upper floor, the previous owner accepted a cash settlement to 
carry out minor crack filling and decoration repairs. NHBC issued a certificate of repair to 
each owner, guaranteed for six years from August 2016 in respect of the repairs to the 
ground floor flats and communal areas.
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs C advised NHBC that cracks had appeared in their property. 
They believed these were related to the previous repair NHBC had carried out. It did a 
desktop analysis and reported that the cracks didnt appear to be structural. It didnt think 
that the cracks were related to its previous repairs. It advised that any new cracking wasnt 
covered as the warranty had expired. It also said that the work carried out by the previous 
owner following a cash settlement wasnt covered by the certificate. 
As the warranty had expired NHBC couldnt consider any new cracking. It suggested that 
Mr and Mrs C obtained their own surveyors report and if that indicated that the cracking was 
related to the previous repairs covered by the certificate, it would reconsider the claim. 
Mr and Mrs C thought it was unfair to expect them to get their own surveyors report, but 
NHBC wouldnt reconsider.
On referral to this service our investigator said that NHBC had acted reasonably.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The position regarding the NHBC warranty is that it expired in 2018, and only covers matters 
referred to it during the warranty period. The certificate of repair issued in 2016 only 
guarantees the particular works carried out under that certificate and those are the works to 
the ground floor flats and common areas. So unless the cracking they reported is related to 
those works its not covered. The work carried out to repair the cracks in Mr and Mrs Cs flat 
isnt covered by the certificate as this was done by the previous owner. 
NHBC carried out a desktop analysis and reviewed the cracks from the photos provided. It 
concluded that the cracks were unlikely to be structural or related to the works carried out in 
2016. Whilst Mr and Mrs C believe otherwise, theyve not been able to provide any expert 
evidence to show that. I think NHBCs response was reasonable. And while I understand 
that it can be costly to get a surveyors report I dont think the photos in themselves show 
that the cracking is related to the ground floor works. If expert evidence were to show 
otherwise then any such cost would be likely reimbursed.
If Mr and Mrs C are still concerned about the cracking, particularly if the cracks have got 
larger, I would suggest that they consider making a claim on their buildings insurance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman