DRN-2921610
The complaint
Miss H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SDF) rejected her claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty garden furniture and that it 
reported her arrears to the credit reference agencies.
What happened
 In April 2020 Miss H bought some garden furniture using a catalogue shopping account on 
buy now pay later terms. She says she usually stored the cushion indoors, but they were left 
out in a downpour and were soaked. This resulted in them becoming markedly stained. She 
complained to SDF and it sent a technician to inspect the cushions. It told Miss H this would 
cost her £45. The technician took a number of photos and his report concluded that there 
was no manufacturing fault.
Miss H complained that the technician hadnt done a thorough job. This was rejected by SDF 
and it added the £45 charge to her account. Miss H says she didnt receive a copy of the 
report and she refused to pay the charge. She brought a complaint to this service and it was 
considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
Miss H didnt agree and asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows.
I noted Miss H says that after having left the cushions outside during a heavy downpour they 
became stained. She has also said that she normally took the cushions inside, but on this 
occasion she didnt and the resulting damage occurred.
I asked SDF for details of the instruction for care and maintenance of the furniture and it 
provided a copy of these. The assembly instructions state:
Please do not leave your product outside when not in use. During bad weather and 
winter months the product should be dismantled and stored in a cool dry place.
Please make sure that the product is clean and dry before putting it into storage.
We recommended the use of furniture covers to protect your furniture when not in 
use.
During severe weather conditions, please move your furniture inside.
I said Miss H agreed to the cushions being inspected, though I note she felt the matter could 
be resolved by her sending in photos. Miss H has said the inspection was brief and the 
inspector took no photographs. The report which has been provided to this service includes 
photos and the inspector has concluded the reported seats are water marked due to 
cushions being left out in a heavy rain down pour when seat covers are only shower proof.
This, plus the photos supplied by Miss H, showed water damage and given the fabric isnt 
water repellent, but only showerproof I said I could not safely conclude there was a fault. It 
was unfortunate that they were left outside in poor weather conditions, but I could not hold 
SDF to be responsible for that. The onus was on Miss H to demonstrate the goods were 
faulty at the point of sale, but I didnt consider she had done so.
I explained that Miss H was told that she would be liable for the £45 inspection fee if the 
cushions were found not to be faulty. Miss H chose not to make the minimum payment 
required under her agreement in September 2020. Shop Direct didnt agree to payments 
being suspended and it reported this to the credit reference agencies.
I expressed concern that SDF didnt share the report with Miss H and simply told her that her 
claim had been rejected. I had some concerns that she had paid for the report, but it wasnt 
shared with her. As such I could understand her unwillingness to pay for it. I thought it only 
reasonable for her to have been given a chance to comment on the contents of the report 
before the matter was concluded.
I said that Miss H logged a complaint about the handling of the claim and brought the matter 
to this service some four weeks later. On balance, I consider it unreasonable to expect Miss 
H to pay for a report which SDF didnt share with her. I understood her unwillingness to pay 
for it and for her to have withheld payment while the matter was being resolved.
I appreciated SDF had issued a final response letter, but Miss H was not given the chance to 
respond in detail to the report. I added that I didnt consider the final outcome of her section 
75 claim to be relevant. I said that it seemed only fair that if a customer pays for something 
then they should have access to it.
I concluded that while I didnt believe I could uphold her complaint about the section 75 claim 
I didnt consider her credit history should be affected by her failure to pay the £45. In the 
circumstances and given the distress and inconvenience she has suffered I considered SDF 
should waive the £45 charge and remove the adverse information it has reported the credit 
reference agencies. 
Miss H agreed, but SDF did not. It said that Mrs H had been told in advance of the £45 
charge for the inspection which had been arranged by its sister company. It said Miss H was 
familiar with the report findings and didnt ask for a copy when she made her complaint. It 
had also offered Miss H the opportunity to obtain her own independent report. Finally, it sent 
a recording of the call in which Miss H raised her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened carefully to the call and I note that at the outset Miss H, who is clearly upset 
that her expensive garden furniture has been ruined by the rain, says that she has not been 
able to get a copy of the report. The call handler does not respond to this and then refers to 
the charge being a repair charge. I note SDF has said it would have provided a copy of the 
report if it had been asked. I think it is clear that Miss H wanted copy, even if she did not 
express that in specific terms
The call handler does go on to detail Miss Hs complaint and the matter of the report was 
overlooked. I consider it only reasonable that given Miss H had made a complaint about the 
furniture and the quality of the report that she should have been given a copy. I find this 
doubly so given SDF imposed a charge for the report.  SDF says that Miss was familiar with 
the report findings. I think she was aware of the conclusion which had been shared by SDF, 
but not the detail of the report. Quite simply, it charged Miss H for the inspection and it is only right that she be provided with a copy.
In short, nothing SDF has put forward pushes me to reach a different conclusion to that in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
SDF should remove the charge and any adverse entries on Miss Hs credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to waive the £45 
charge plus any additional charges imposed due to non-payment of this sum and remove the 
adverse information it has reported the credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman