DRN-3971777
The complaint
Mr J complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. In summary he says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Js employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr J was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he met with NTM for advice. On 7 December 2017 NTM 
completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Js circumstances and objectives. 
Amongst other things this recorded that Mr J was 37 years old; he was married with children; 
he jointly owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage; he had no investments 
or cash-based savings to speak of; he had low attitude to risk; and he intended to retire 
between 55-57. NTM also carried out a separate assessment of Mr Js attitude to risk on the 
same day, which it deemed to be average, later described as balanced.
On 8 December 2017 NTM advised Mr J to transfer his pension benefits into a
personal pension and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of funds NTM deemed matched 
Mr Js attitude to risk. NTM says this was emailed and posted to Mr J on 22 December 2017. 
In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were to provide 
Mr J with the control of his retirement affairs that he wanted; to provide better (lump sum) 
death benefits for his family; to enable Mr J to break ties with his employer; and to enable 
Mr J to have flexibility in retirement - the ability to vary his income and take lump sums.
Prior to the Time to Choose deadline of 22 December 2017, Mr J chose to remain in the 
existing scheme and move with it to the PPF. 
In a further meeting with NTM on 8 January 2018 to discuss the recommendation, Mr J 
accepted the recommendation and some time later, around £107,100 was transferred to his 
new personal pension.
In 2021 Mr J complained to NTM, via our Service, about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Mr J said that he was told by the adviser that the BSPS2 wouldnt likely be viable in the long-
term  it would eventually go to the PPF. Mr J said he felt rushed and pressured to act 
before the deadline and he had to pay a fee.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events leading 
up to the Time to Choose exercise and Mr Js interactions with NTM, in summary it said, 
there was no evidence the adviser made any comment about the funding position of the 
BSPS2; there was no evidence Mr J was concerned about the Time to Choose deadline, 
that the advice process was shortened (at his request) or that it was rushed; the fees were 
fully disclosed to Mr J as part of the recommendation; and overall it concluded there was no 
mis-selling.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr J asked us to consider his complaint. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required NTM to pay compensation. In summary they said, the 
transfer wasnt financially viable because the growth rate required to match Mr Js DB 
scheme benefits wasnt likely achievable. They said Mr J was likely to receive lower 
retirement benefits as a result of transferring. Furthermore they said no analysis and critical 
yield was produced for a retirement age of 55/57 despite Mr J indicating this was his 
preferred retirement age. They also said there were no other compelling reasons to justify 
the transfer as being suitable  while Mr Js income need couldnt be fulfilled by his DB 
scheme, any flexibility requirement couldve been met from his workplace Defined 
Contribution (DC) pension scheme; his pension was primarily designed to provide an 
income not death benefits; and his concerns about the scheme shouldve been properly 
addressed and managed. They said if suitable advice had been given, Mr J wouldve 
remained in the scheme and moved with it to the PPF because he wanted early retirement.
NTM indicated that it disagreed with the investigator and it said a response to their 
assessment would follow. But despite repeated reminders to send it to us for our 
consideration, NTM has not done so. I think it is reasonable to assume that if NTM wanted to 
respond, it wouldve done so by now.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Js 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Js existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But at the time of the advice, Mr J didnt have the option to remain in 
the BSPS. And NTM understood this and documented as such  meeting notes from the 
fact-find meeting of 7 December 2017 record a discussion about the Time to Choose 
information and Mr Js decision whether to opt into the BSPS2 or move with the scheme to 
the PPF. So basing the analysis on the existing scheme was somewhat redundant and in my 
view wasnt helpful to Mr J.
I can see that when NTM met with Mr J in January 2018 to discuss its recommendation as 
set out in its suitability report of 8 December 2017, it said that the only option for Mr J at this 
stage was to consider a transfer or move to the PPF. I understand this was because Mr J 
had decided to remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF. NTM indicated in its first 
meeting that it might not be able to complete its advice by the deadline of 22 December 
2017 and it said in its final response letter that it sent Mr J its suitability report on 
22 December 2017. But the suitability report is dated 8 December 2017 some two weeks 
earlier. And given the TVAS is also dated 8 December 2017, I see no reason why NTM was 
not in a position to complete its advice and send its recommendation to Mr J sooner. I can 
see it says Mr J wasnt concerned about the 22 December 2017 deadline  but I think NTM 
ought to have been and I think it ought to have sent its suitability report to Mr J on or shortly 
after 8 December 2017 when it appears it had formulated its advice
Because I think NTM was reasonably in a position to issue its advice to Mr J sooner, I think 
its analysis and advice should have taken into account the benefits available to Mr J through 
the BSPS2. While I accept the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time, details of 
the scheme had been provided  the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but 
the annual increases wouldve been lower. 
And in my view, all of the communications sent out by the scheme trustees were very 
optimistic that the scheme operating conditions would be met. So I think it was reasonable 
for NTM to have factored the benefits available to Mr J through the BSPS2 into its analysis 
and advice so that he was able to make a properly informed decision. Ill come back to this 
point later on.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr J was 37 at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice paperwork that he 
wanted to retire at 55/57. The TVAS report of 8 December 2017 set out the critical yields. To 
match Mr Js existing scheme benefits at age 60 the critical yields were 7.26% assuming 
Mr J took a full pension and 6.29% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension. The 
critical yields to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 60 were 5.94% and 
5.71% respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr J remaining in the BSPS wasnt an option. So, the critical yields 
applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The lower annual increases 
under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields somewhat. But I still think they 
wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF benefits.
Id add here too that, given NTMs advice was predicated on a retirement age of 55/57 - 
notwithstanding my view that I dont think Mr Js retirement plans were in anyway set in 
stone as I will explain later on  I find it surprising NTM didnt produce critical yield figures 
based on a retirement age of 55 and/or 57. I think this wouldve been more meaningful and 
relevant to Mr J. The early retirement factor information was available in Mr Js Time to 
Choose pack, so NTM couldve produced the analysis. I think this is further evidence that 
NTM analysis wasnt helpful to Mr J.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4.5% per year for 22 years to retirement (age 60). Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Js 
recorded balanced attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, there would 
be little point in Mr J giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only 
to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme.
Here, the lowest critical yield based on a retirement age of 60 was 5.71%, which was based 
on Mr J taking a reduced pension through the PPF. It was 6.29% if Mr J took the same 
benefits at 60 through the existing BSPS. So, based on taking the same benefits at age 60 
through the BSPS2, I think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between those 
figures, and likely closer to 6.29%. At age 57, closer still if not higher than 6.29%. This was 
higher than both the discount rate and the regulators middle projection rate. Given this, I 
think it was clear that Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than those provided by the BSPS2 at retirement by transferring and as a result of investing 
in line with a balanced attitude to risk. 
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required wouldve required 
him to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he was prepared to take. 
The critical yields required to match the benefits available through the PPF were 5.94% and 
5.71%, so I dont think the position was any different if the scheme moved to the PPF.
Overall, even if the BSPS had moved to the PPF and Mr Js benefits were reduced, he was 
unlikely to be able to improve on those benefits by transferring to a personal pension. By transferring his pension it was highly likely Mr J would be financially worse off in retirement. 
So based on this alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Js best interests.
Id add here that I have some concerns about how NTM deemed Mr J was prepared to take 
an average or balanced approach to risk with this pension. In the fact-find document, its 
recorded that Mr J saw himself as a low-risk investor. The description of this risk category is, 
in my view, reasonably clear and in plain easy to understand language, so I think Mr J 
wouldve likely understood it. This was not an assessment where a series of questions are 
scored to arrive at an overall risk profile  the question asked of Mr J in the fact-find was a 
direct one: Which statement reflects your attitude to risk. Given this, together with Mr Js 
lack of any prior investment experience, it leads me to believe a low-risk approach was the 
true level of risk Mr J was prepared to take.
Yet in the risk profile questionnaire, the answers Mr J gave conflict with the low-risk group he 
originally indicated he saw himself in, in the fact-find  here it categorised him as an 
average or balanced risk investor. It strikes me here that NTM talked up Mr Js risk profile 
to balanced as part of this separate risk profiling assessment and in its discussions with him 
to support or justify the advice to transfer. NTMs file note of the meeting of 7 December 
2017 includes the following:
In the FF he took a more cautious approach and when challenged confirmed that had only 
saved into a bank... he was aware that a pension cannot be accessed for many years and 
when considering investment a more risky approach should be adopted. We discussed risk 
and reward and the need to achieve a return large enough to build a suitable pension... It 
was agreed that we should work on the basis of a Balanced ATR.
And the file note from the 8 January 2018 meeting records:
[Mr J] confirmed that after reflecting he is happy to invest in a Balanced way as outlined in 
the report to get a suitable return. I confirmed that [Mr J] should not proceed unless he 
accepts a balanced attitude to risk as outlined in the report. [Mr J] confirmed he was happy 
to accept the risk as outlined in the report. 
On the one hand I accept that the advisers job is to advise, so this might include challenging 
or questioning an investors risk profile; particularly if the profile doesnt match their 
knowledge or experience or they give conflicting answers in a profiling assessment. But on 
this other hand and in this case, Mr J had given what I think was a clear indication as to the 
level of risk he was prepared to take with his pension. This was not a minor investment in an 
ISA where a small regular monthly contribution was at stake  this was a significant 
investment and a transaction that was irreversible. While I accept Mr J was relatively young 
and the term to retirement was long, taking everything into account, I dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for NTM to have encouraged/persuaded Mr J to take on a greater level of risk 
than he indicated he was prepared to take. I think NTMs advice ought to have been based 
on Mr Js willingness to accept a low-risk attitude towards investing.
Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations, which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income need
NTM recommended the transfer because Mr J wanted the flexibility that is available through 
a personal pension  the ability to fashion his income towards his target in retirement, which couldnt be achieved by remaining in the DB scheme.
But Im not persuaded that Mr J knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in 
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits at 
this stage to achieve flexibility, if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr J was only 37 years old at the time of the advice, and while I accept its possible he might 
have given some thought to his future retirement, given it was still at least 20 years away, I 
dont think he had anything that could reasonably be described as a set retirement plan. 
Mr Js target retirement age was recorded as being 55/57, which in my view simply reflects 
the earliest age legislation permits pension benefits can be taken from. I think Mr J, like most 
people if asked, liked the idea of retiring as early as possible  but Im not persuaded it was 
a firm objective given his retirement was so far into the future.
Of course Mr J already had the option of taking early retirement before the schemes normal 
retirement age of 65  he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept Mr J couldnt 
take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr J had to take those benefits at the same time. But nothing 
here indicates that Mr J had a likely future need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking 
his income. It seems likely Mr Js mortgage would be repaid before his retirement and its 
recorded that he had no intended large capital expenditure. I also havent seen anything to 
indicate that Mr J had a strong need to vary his income throughout retirement  Mr J didnt 
know what his income needs would be at this stage. So it strikes me that flexibility was 
simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather 
than a genuine objective of Mr Js at the time.
Despite this, importantly Mr J was contributing to his workplace DC pension scheme. And 
the nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr J with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. While NTM recorded Mr J was contributing to 
this pension, unfortunately it didnt record the current value or the contribution rate. In my 
experience the typical contribution rate was between 16-20% - 10% employer contribution 
and 6-10% by the employee. So I think its more likely than not Mr Js pension was receiving 
a contribution of not less than 16% of his salary. By age 57, without accounting for any 
salary increases, increases in contribution rate or investment growth, Mr Js pension could 
be worth in excess of £100,000. And with investment growth, I see no reason why this 
wouldnt be closer to £200,000 given the potential length of the investment term. I think Mr J 
couldve taken lump sums as and when required and adjusted the income he took from it 
according to his needs. So, I think if Mr J retained his DB pension, this combined with his 
new workplace pension, wouldve likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what 
he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr J didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. But if Mr J did in 
fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this couldve 
been explored closer to his intended retirement age. And by opting into the BSPS2, he 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out nearer to retirement if his needs later demanded 
it. I think NTM couldve explained this more clearly to Mr J.
Turning to Mr Js income need  while I dont think Mr J had any real understanding of what 
retirement income he would need - and I cant see that NTM carried out any detailed 
analysis of his likely expected income and expenditure in retirement - it was recorded that 
£1,500 a month would be sufficient and £2,000 a month more preferable. And based on this, 
Ive seen nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the PPF (if the new scheme 
didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr J with, at the very least, a solid guaranteed 
income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, until his state pension became payable to likely meet his overall income need.
As I said earlier on, NTM didnt produce analysis based on a retirement age of 57. But 
according to NTM, at age 60 under the existing scheme Mr J would be entitled to an annual 
pension of around £7,100. Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 this 
figure would be lower, but in my view still close to it. Although this alone wouldnt meet Mr Js 
income need (and at age 57 the income gap would be greater) Mr J wouldve likely had a 
significant amount in his workplace DC pension, which he could draw on flexibly, as and 
when needed, to top up his income or take a lump sum. Given the potential size of Mr Js DC 
pension, its possible that if he did decide to retire at 57 (by no means certain) he could draw 
on this pension alone to meet his initial income need allowing him to defer taking his DB 
scheme benefits for longer to achieve a higher initial income. Im mindful too that the advice 
paperwork records Mr J was, or he had the capacity to save around £400 a month. Given 
the term to his likely retirement, I think this couldve given him further scope to supplement 
his income and provide the opportunity for him to retire early if he ultimately decided to do 
so. I think NTM couldve explored this in more detail with Mr J. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr J wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. And 
while the income Mr J would receive was likely lower than the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2 on the basis of taking a full pension, I dont think it was substantially lower 
such that it wouldve made a difference to the recommendation. As Ive said above, Mr Js 
retirement plans and needs werent formulated, but I think his income need couldve likely 
been met by utilising his DC scheme and savings to draw on flexibly until his state pension 
became payable.
So overall, I think Mr J couldve likely met his income needs in retirement through the BSPS2 
or the PPF. And I dont think it was in Mr Js best interests for him to transfer his pension just 
to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
NTM also recommended the transfer to enable Mr J to have higher lump sum death benefits 
to provide for his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr J. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr J might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum to family after death. And I dont 
think NTM explored to what extent Mr J was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr J 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been 
useful to his spouse if Mr J predeceased her. I dont think NTM made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr J. 
This was guaranteed and escalated and it would also be calculated as if no cash lump sum 
had been taken. Furthermore, it was not dependent on investment performance, whereas 
the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, NTM should not have 
encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful there that Mr J already had lump sum death benefits available to him. He had death-in-service benefit, which would provide his wife with a lump sum if he died before 
retirement age. And he was also contributing to his workplace DC scheme, which he could 
nominate his wife as beneficiary of if he hadnt already done so.
Furthermore, if Mr J genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think NTM 
shouldve instead explored additional life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report 
mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured equivalent to the transfer value  this 
was discounted by Mr J because of the cost (£68.81 per month). But I dont think that this 
was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr J.
Basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Js pension benefits essentially assumed that 
he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, 
Mr J wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife and family, which would 
be a lot less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the 
starting point ought to have been to ask Mr J how much he would ideally like to leave to his 
family, taking into account what was already available, and this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide, 
particularly given Mr Js relatively young age and good health. Given Mr Js monthly 
disposable income, I see no reason why this wouldnt have been affordable. I think it is this 
NTM ought to have ultimately recommended to satisfy Mr Js objective rather than 
recommend he transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the BSPS
I understand that Mr J, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his 
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and so he was likely worried his pension would end up in the PPF. There were lots of 
negative things circulating about the PPF. So its quite possible that Mr J was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had - his negative perception of 
the PPF and his concerns about the BSPS2. But it was NTMs obligation to give Mr J an 
objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of the BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. So, the advice shouldve properly taken the benefits available to Mr J through 
the BSPS2 into account, particularly given the timing and the looming 22 December 2017 
deadline. I think this shouldve alleviated some of Mr Js concerns about the scheme moving 
to the PPF.
But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that NTM shouldve 
done more to reassure Mr J that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he 
thought or been led to believe. Importantly Mr J still had the option of taking early retirement 
through the PPF. 
Mr J didnt have any firm retirement plans at this stage - but I think the income available to 
Mr J through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his DC scheme could 
supplement to likely meet his overall income need at retirement. Crucially he was also 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment 
in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any 
investment risk. Mr J might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but given 
what I said earlier on about him already having flexibility, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do so.
So I dont think that Mr Js concerns about his DB scheme was a compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
Because I think the level of risk Mr J was prepared to take with his pension was lower than 
the risk profile of the recommended investment funds, I think the investment strategy was 
unsuitable. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB 
scheme wasnt suitable for Mr J, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the 
investment recommendation. This is because Mr J should have been advised to remain in 
the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given.
Summary
I accept that Mr J was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive 
features to Mr J. But NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr J might have thought he 
wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr J needed and recommend what 
was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr J was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr J was very likely to obtain 
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr J didnt have any firm retirement plans, 
so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have flexibility that 
Im not persuaded he really needed, and the potential for higher death benefits wasnt worth 
giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it was in Mr Js 
best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time when he 
reasonably had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. 
Not only could NTM have advised Mr J to opt-into the BSPS2 as a precaution before it 
completed its advice  he couldve still transferred out before March 2018 and it might have 
been possible for him to cancel his choice and still move to the PPF. But as I explained 
earlier on, I think NTM was in a position to deliver its written advice to Mr J sooner and to 
have considered the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 in doing so. Mr J might 
have chosen to remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF before he accepted 
NTMs recommendation, but if things had happened as they should have and in a timely 
manner, I think NTM shouldve advised Mr J to opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate, as I said earlier on, that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time. 
But as Ive also already said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so this ought to 
have been the position NTM adopted  I think it is fair and reasonable for it to have done so. 
And while Mr J indicated he wanted to retire at 55/57, as Ive explained this was 20 years 
away and Mr Js plans couldve changed. 
So, I don't think that it would've been in his best interest to accept the reduction in benefits 
he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more 
favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr J wouldve 
retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age - if his needs 
later demanded it. Mr J was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr J chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So I think NTM shouldve advised Mr J to 
opt into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr J would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs 
advice.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr J wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against NTMs advice. I say this because, while as Ive already 
said Mr J was likely motivated to transfer when he approached NTM, on balance, I still think 
Mr J wouldve listened to and followed its advice if things had happened as they should have 
and NTM had recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr J had no prior investment 
experience, so Im not persuaded he possessed the requisite skill, knowledge or confidence 
to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex pension matters. Mr Js pension 
accounted for all of his private retirement provision at the time and I believe his attitude to 
investment risk was low. So, if NTM had provided him with clear advice against transferring 
out of the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted 
that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns Mr J had about his employer, or the concerns he had 
about the scheme, were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it 
was suitable for him or in his best interests. Regarding Mr Js desire to break all ties with his 
employer - its clear that he still worked for the same employer. And he hadnt indicated he 
intended to find alternative employment. Mr J was also a member of his employers new DC 
pension scheme. So, Mr J wasnt going to achieve a separation from his employer by 
transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in other respects.
So if NTM had explained this and that Mr J could likely meet all of his objectives without 
risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. So, I dont 
think Mr J wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if NTM had given suitable advice 
and recommended that he should opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr J for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As I have explained above, 
I consider Mr J would most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and 
opted to join the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given and delivered to him in a timely 
manner.
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr J and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.For clarity, Mr J has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr J can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman