DRN-3848347
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the offer Fairmead Insurance Limited has made to settle a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr R said the only toilet at his home became blocked in December 2021. He called a 
contractor, P, who unblocked the pipe.
The blockage returned in January 2022. Mr R tried to clear the blockage but, 
unsuccessful, he contacted P. They cleared the pipe and said it needed replacing as 
it was broken and was likely to cause further problems. Mr R agreed to have that 
work carried out soon after.
Mr R got in touch with Fairmead to make a claim for the cost of removing the 
blockages and replacing the damaged pipe. This came to around £3,000.
Fairmead accepted the claim. Its contractor, A, made an offer of around £1,000.
Mr R didnt think this was a fair offer. He noted the blockages had been urgent to 
clear and that meant costs were higher, particularly as the first happened on a 
Sunday. And he had taken steps to minimise the cost by trying to clear blockages 
himself and contacting several contractors before choosing P.
Fairmead said it was entitled to limit the claim settlement to the amount it would have 
paid A to carry out the work. It said As offer was correct.
Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy and offered a fair settlement.
Mr R said it would have been impractical to contact Fairmead prior to arranging for 
the work to be carried out as the situation had been urgent  the only toilet in his 
house was blocked. And he questioned whether As offer was based on the full 
extent of work P had carried out.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
The claim has been accepted by Fairmead, so this dispute is solely about how much 
it would be fair for it to pay to settle the claim.
The policy terms are clear that Fairmead, when settling by cash payment, will not pay 
more than what it would have paid its contractor to carry out the work. The policy also 
says Mr R should let Fairmead know about a claim as soon as reasonably possible.
A has estimated its cost at around £1,000 and thats what the cash settlement is 
based on. In principle, thats consistent with the policy terms. However, Mr R has 
pointed out that As estimate isnt like for like with the work carried out by P.
For example, it took P over five hours to fully clear the blockage at its first visit. As 
estimate is based on two hours. And whilst Mr R has claimed for the cost of P visiting 
to clear the second blockage, A hasnt included any cost for this in its offer. It says at 
the first visit, it would have aimed to clear the blockage and identify any other 
problems. Mr R notes that P are professionals in the industry, as is he, and with flow 
restored there appeared to be no further problem. That was only discovered over a 
month later, when the blockage returned.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest P acted unreasonably or unprofessionally, such 
that it carried out work unnecessarily, took significantly longer than A would have 
done, or ought to have found the pipe damage sooner.
So whilst its possible A may have been able to carry out the work more quickly or 
efficiently, Im not persuaded thats likely to be the case. One option for remedying 
this is to ask Fairmead to have A re-calculate its estimate for all visits based on a like 
for like assessment of the work carried out by P.
However, Mr R has also questioned whether it would be fair for Fairmead to settle at 
As rates when he needed the work carried out urgently. Whilst the policy terms are 
clear that Fairmead can settle at As rates in cases where it hasnt had the chance to 
carry out the work itself, I think that should be balanced against the circumstances 
involved  and whether Fairmead would have been able to arrange the work in a 
reasonable amount of time.
If A hadnt been able to attend promptly when Mr R discovered each blockage, he 
wouldnt have been able to stay at home without a working toilet. Fairmead hasnt 
said how quickly A would have been able to attend. So its not clear A would have 
been able to visit Mr R promptly enough when there were blockages. In these 
circumstances, I dont think Mr R acted unreasonably by finding a contractor who 
could visit urgently. That naturally cost more than standard rates.
I havent seen anything to show A would likely have discovered the damaged pipe 
sooner than P did. So I think its likely there would have been two blockages in any 
event. And as both would have needed urgent attention, Im not satisfied it would be 
fair for Mr R to lose out as a result. So Im persuaded it would be fair for Fairmead to 
meet these costs in full.
However, once the blockage was removed the second time and the pipe damage 
was discovered, I dont think there was an urgent need to carry out the replacement 
work. At the point he knew less urgent work was required, Mr R could have contacted 
Fairmead and A could have arranged to carry out that work at its own rates. So Im 
not persuaded it would be fair to ask Fairmead to deviate from the policy wording in 
relation to this work.
Overall, the policy is clear Mr R should contact Fairmead as soon as reasonably 
possible and costs will be limited to what Fairmead would have paid A. However, he 
was faced with two urgent blockages and took reasonable steps to have them 
cleared  and I dont think it would be fair in these circumstances to apply the policy 
terms rigidly.Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied the fairest outcome, balancing all the 
points above, is for Fairmead to settle the claim for £2,000, after deduction of the 
excess. This is approximately the value of the two blockage clearances at the rates 
Mr R paid and the pipe replacement at As rates. And I expect asking A to re-
calculate costs on a like for like basis with P would increase its estimate towards this 
value anyway.
So with fairness and pragmatism in mind, I think settling for £2,000 would be 
reasonable in all the circumstances. If Fairmead has already paid its initial offer to Mr 
R, it can deduct that from the £2,000 settlement and pay the remainder.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
Fairmead didnt respond.
As neither party commented on or challenged any of the findings in my provisional decision,
I see no reason to change them or comment on them further.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay a total of £2,000 to 
settle the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman