DRN-2526680
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited didnt freeze the monthly premiums she was 
paying for her private medical insurance.
What happened
Mrs C was paying over £220 per month for private medical insurance, underwritten by 
BUPA.
Due to the unusual and unprecedented circumstances of the Covid-19 global pandemic, and 
the pressure this was putting on the NHS, medical facilities ordinarily used for privately 
funded treatment were utilised by the NHS for treatment. As a result, BUPA says it had to 
suspend routine and non-urgent treatments.
Mrs C says its unfair that she was required to keep paying her monthly premiums for her 
medical insurance during this time, as the policy wasnt providing the full range of cover she 
was paying for. She complained to BUPA about this in April 2020.
BUPA said it was committed to pass back any exceptional financial benefit it ultimately 
receives as a result of Covid-19 to its UK health insurance customers  either by way of a 
rebate or other appropriate means. And when the likely impact of the Covid-19 pandemic is 
clearer it said it would update Mrs C on how it will do this. BUPA has also said that it will 
commission a third-party review to ensure that what it does is fair and reasonable across its 
different customer groups.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this response, so she complained to our Service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs C disagreed. Her complaint has now been passed to me 
consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Thats because I dont think BUPA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint by not agreeing to freeze
Mrs Cs monthly insurance premiums. I set out my reasons below. 
During 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the pandemic. This, understandably in my opinion, temporarily 
affected BUPAs ability to provide the full range of services it would usually be able to 
offer to customers under their particular medical insurance policies  including Mrs C. 
This was due to the unprecedented and unforeseen impact of Covid-19 pandemic 
and, Im satisfied, was outside of BUPAs of control.
BUPA accept that routine and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed as a result of the pandemic. But Im satisfied that BUPA did put in place 
other benefits to support its customers at this time  including, where possible, 
arranging remote consultations with appropriate medical professionals. I appreciate 
that Mrs C may not have wanted to access treatment in that way, but Im persuaded 
that Mrs Cs policy was capable of benefitting her during this time even though she 
didnt need to make a claim. Mrs C also suffered no actual detriment by the lack of 
access to private treatment at the time as shes not suggested she was unable to 
access any treatment she required. 
BUPA has said that inpatient and outpatient care was still offered by the policy and 
that if a customer had contacted it to make a claim, they wouldve been assisted in 
doing so. Whilst Mrs C didnt require any treatment during this time, if she had done, 
Im not persuaded BUPA wouldnt have sought to assist her under the policy  
particularly if she needed treatment urgently. When making this finding, Ive taken on 
board what Mrs C says about her friend breaking her knee. And that treatment her 
friend needed wasnt covered by her friends private health insurance policy. 
However, Im not persuaded that this means any urgent treatment Mrs C mightve 
needed wouldnt have been covered by BUPA under the policy Mrs C had because 
of effects of the pandemic. 
BUPA says that it has been able to financially support customers whove seen a 
reduction in income due to the Covid-19 pandemic - by agreeing a temporary 
suspension of their premiums. But, as a result, they wont be able to claim under the 
policy during that time. BUPA says Mrs C didnt present them with any such 
circumstances. Mrs C told BUPA that shes a pensioner in the initial call she made to 
BUPA requesting her premiums be frozen. But she didnt indicate that shed 
experienced a reduction in income as a result of the pandemic. So, I dont think 
BUPA acted unreasonably by not offering to freeze Mrs Cs monthly premium. I also 
note that BUPA did look to see whether it could offer a rebate equivalent to one 
months premium but as shed already received one months premium free when 
renewing her policy towards the end of 2019, it said it was unable to do so. That 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
Mrs C says that her gym subscription was suspended, and Ive got no reason to 
doubt what she says. But an insurance policy operates differently to a gym 
membership. And for the reasons Ive already set out above, Im persuaded that she 
was still capable of benefitting from her medical insurance even though certain 
treatments mightve been restricted / delayed at that time. 
Mrs C says her brother received a rebate from his medical insurance provider, but I 
dont think that automatically means that BUPA acted unfairly by not doing so. 
Different insurers are free to make different commercial decisions.  BUPA has said 
that if it sees a reduction in the claims it pays for customers overall, its committed to pass back to customers any exceptional financial benefit it has made arising as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic. That will include Mrs C. I think BUPAs intended 
course of action is reasonable  particularly as the effects of the pandemic are 
ongoing and the impact is still uncertain.
I know Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help her to know that 
her complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman