DRN-3303387
The complaint
Mrs Vs complaint is that Towergate Underwriting Group Limited mis-sold a Property Owners 
Insurance Policy.
What happened
In 2018, Mrs V purchased a Property Owners Insurance Policy which was sold by 
Towergate. The policy covered three residential flats and the premises. Two of the 
flats were owner occupied by Mrs V and her husband. Mrs V asked Towergate to 
remove the loss of rent cover from the policy as she wasnt currently collecting rent 
from the third flat. 
In 2019, Mrs V made a claim on the policy for an escape of water. The property was 
deemed uninhabitable, so Mrs V made enquiries for alternative accommodation (AA). 
But she was told the policy didnt include AA cover as it was included in the loss of 
rent section shed removed. So, Mrs V had to make her own arrangements for AA. 
Towergate attempted to liaise with the insurer to provide AA in the circumstances, 
but the insurer turned the request down. 
Mrs V complained to Towergate. She said the policy wasnt fit for purpose as there 
was no home emergency cover to deal with the initial leak. And she said she hadnt 
been made aware that removing the loss of rent cover also removed AA cover from 
the policy.
Towergate didnt respond so Mrs V referred the complaint to our service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should be upheld 
because they were persuaded that Mrs V wasnt made aware that removing the loss 
of rent cover would also remove AA cover. And they concluded that this meant the 
policy she had bought was unsuitable for her needs. They didnt uphold Mrs Vs 
complaint about the lack of home emergency cover as they couldnt see that this had 
been requested at the point of sale.
Our investigator recommended Towergate compensate Mrs V for nine months AA 
costs to reflect a reasonable duration of the claim. They didnt conclude that 
Towergate should be held responsible for any avoidable delays with the claim as 
those would be due to the actions of the insurer handling it. Our investigator also 
recommended Towergate pay Mrs V £750 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused from a lack of AA cover over the first nine months of the claim.
Towergate doesnt agree because it says there wasnt a solution available to it which 
would have meant it could offer a policy with AA cover only. It accepted that AA cover 
wasnt discussed with Mrs V at the time the policy was sold, and said it was logical to 
not offer loss of rent cover as this would be something Mrs V couldnt claim for.
Mrs V says that Towergate should be responsible for more than nine months loss of 
rent as the claim, and her overall costs are ongoing. She added that two of the three 
flats were uninhabitable so Towergates responsibility for AA costs should be 
expanded to cover that.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Towergate sold Mrs V a policy on an advised basis. This means that it recommended 
Mrs V bought a particular policy based on what it knew about her circumstances. 
And Towergate had a duty to ensure that the policy it recommended was suitable for 
Mrs Vs needs.
I would therefore expect to see evidence that Towergate asked sufficient questions to 
establish that the policy it recommended was suitable. Or, if the policy it 
recommended wasnt suitable, it needed to make this clear to Mrs V, so that she 
could make an informed choice about whether to buy the policy.
Ive considered Mrs Vs comments about the lack of home emergency cover on the 
policy. But I cant see that this was discussed before the sale or set out as a 
requirement on the statement of fact. So, I dont think Towergate have acted wrongly 
by not offering a policy with home emergency cover included.
Ive next considered the lack of AA cover on the policy. The crux of the issue here is 
that Mrs V didnt want loss of rent cover because she wasnt currently collecting rent 
from the premises. And so, Towergate offered a policy with this benefit removed. But 
the policy terms show that AA cover is only available under the same section as loss 
of rent. So, Mrs Vs options were essentially limited here to either having both loss of 
rent and AA covered, or neither. 
Towergate knew that Mrs V lived in the property. And that she was using at least two 
of the three flats for her and her husband as owner occupiers. So regardless of the 
status of the third flat, its clear that a suitable recommendation to Mrs V would 
include AA cover in the event her property became uninhabitable. 
I dont agree that Towergate needed to find a solution or product that provided AA 
cover only. It simply needed to make Mrs V aware that in removing the loss of rent 
cover, she was also removing AA cover so she could make an informed decision.
Mrs V has provided some detailed testimony about her circumstances. And the 
evidence shows that she was fairly engaged with the sale process in making sure 
the policy was suitable for her needs. So, I am persuaded that had Towergate made 
Mrs V aware of this restriction in cover, she wouldve acted differently to ensure she 
bought a suitable policy. Its clear that Towergates error has had a large impact on Mrs V, as shes been left 
without AA cover when she needed to claim. So, I think it is only fair that Towergate 
pays for reasonable AA costs that Mrs V has incurred.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Vs comments in deciding what I think reasonable costs 
would amount to here. And I am aware that she has incurred additional costs as a 
result of the overall duration of the claim. But I cant fairly hold Towergate 
responsible for this  as our investigator has already explained this would be down 
to the actions of the insurer handling the claim and would need to be dealt with as a 
separate matter with them.
Having considered the most likely duration of the claim, and taking into account some 
additional months linked to the start of the Covid-19 global pandemic in March 2020, 
I find that nine months AA costs are a reasonable and proportionate amount to 
redress the errors of Towergate here. 
If Mrs V accepts my decision, I would expect to see Towergate work with the insurer 
to ensure this amount is a fair and reasonable reflection of the costs Mrs V wouldve 
been entitled to over the first nine months of the claim. Towergate should base these 
costs upon the existing insured premises and the location of the most likely 
appropriate short-term lets. And Towergate should also take into account that Mrs V 
was using two of the flats as owner occupied due to her family circumstances.
Mrs V was also caused a significant degree of distress and inconvenience because 
her claim for AA was turned down. So, I find that the award of £750 compensation 
proposed by our investigator is a fair and reasonable amount to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order to resolve Mrs Vs 
complaint, Towergate Underwriting Group Limited is required to:
Pay Mrs V compensation equivalent to nine months of reasonable alternative 
accommodation costs. This sum should match the value that Mrs Vs insurer 
wouldve paid to source a local and appropriate short term let property.
Pay 8% simple interest on the above sum, backdated to the start date of the claim, 
until the date of settlement.
Pay Mrs V £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2022.   
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman