DRN-2298762
The complaint
Mr W complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Mr W has had pet insurance for his dog, insured by Red Sands, for several years. The policy 
gives lifetime cover subject to the policy terms, conditions and limits so long as the policy is 
in force.
In 2019 Mr W found a lump in his dogs mouth and his vet recommended the lump be 
investigated. The vet removed the lump while the dog was sedated and also removed four of 
the dogs teeth and descaled and polished his teeth. Mr W claimed for treatment of an oral 
mass. 
Red Sands asked for the histology result then declined the claim. The policy excludes dental 
or gum treatment. Red Sands said the vet evidence showed the lump was on a gum by a 
tooth and benign and the policy exclusion applied.
Mr W complained to us. He said his vet told him the lump needed to be investigated as it 
could be cancerous. He thought Red Sands was unfair to apply the policy exclusion so 
broadly to treatment for oral cancer or suspected cancer. Mr W also said Red Sands implied 
that he was at fault as it said he could have chosen not to renew the policy if he didnt accept 
the policy terms. He thought that was contrary to Red Sands comment in its policy renewal 
letter that pre-existing conditions may be excluded from a new policy with a new insurer. He 
wants Red Sands to pay the claim and accept any future claims in relation to the same 
condition.
Two of our investigators considered the complaint. Both said Red Sands fairly declined the 
claim. The second investigator told Mr W he would have to make a new complaint about his 
concern that Red Sands had given contrary information.
Mr W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary he said:
 he and his vet understood the exclusion just applied to routine dental hygiene 
procedures 
 his dog was treated for a suspicious lump in his mouth not for dental or gum 
treatment. He wants Red Sands to pay for the oral mass treatment not the 
accompanying dental work 
 the lump was on the mucous membrane in the mouth between teeth. The lump 
wasnt on a tooth and no stitches were required so the gum didnt need treatment
 the lumps removal for analysis was necessary whether or not the lump was 
cancerous. Hed been told to keep an eye on the area so he wanted to know that  
any recurrence would be covered. He also queried whether the claim would have 
been declined if the lump had been cancerous
 he shouldnt have to make a separate complaint about Red Sands implying he 
shouldnt have taken out or renewed the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy excludes claims for any dental or gum treatment, including root canal treatment, 
and any investigation costs leading up to a dental diagnosis.
The policy defines treatment as any examination, consultation, advice, tests, x-rays, slides, 
ultrasound, MRI, medication, surgery or nursing care...
I need to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to rely on that exclusion 
to decline the claim, and I think it was. I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen Mr Ws dogs vet notes and the histology report and the lump is referred to as  
being gum related on a number of occasions. The vet notes say O noticed when cleaning 
teeth that has gingival lump, approx pea sized at tooth 303 (lower L lateral incisor), not sure 
how long been there but hasnt bothered him. So the vet says the lump was on the gum.
The vet initially diagnosed the lump as epulus (ie benign gingival hyperplasia), which is a 
lump on the gum. At surgery the vet notes say they removed a pea sized gingival mass, a 
lump on the gum, that was between two teeth. 
The histology report diagnosed the mass to be a benign fibroepithelial polyp, oral mucosa, 
a skin tag on the mouth membrane. The report said from the section examined it wasnt 
clear whether the lump was gingival or otherwise, but it was benign. But the vet notes 
evidence from the vet who saw the lump in place in the dogs mouth say the lump was on 
the gum.
I understand Mr W was concerned the lump could be cancerous and wanted it investigated. 
But Im satisfied that from the overall vet evidence Red Sands could reasonably understand 
that the lump related to the gum and that the treatment to remove and investigate the lump 
was gum treatment excluded by the policy terms.
Given the policy definition of treatment (which isnt unusual) I dont think Mr W could 
reasonably understand that the exclusion just applied to routine dental hygiene procedures.
Mr W queries whether his claim would be covered if the lump had been cancerous. I dont 
think the exclusion for dental and gum treatment means Red Sands can fairly decline all 
claims for cancerous or benign oral lumps. In considering whether a policy exclusion has 
been fairly applied by an insurer we look at the vet evidence relevant to the claim at the time.
If there are ongoing issues with Mr Ws dogs mouth then he would be able to make a claim 
for any treatment and I would expect Red Sands to assess the claim on the vet evidence at 
the time. If the parties didnt agree the outcome Mr W could make a separate complaint to us 
about the new claim.
Im satisfied that Red Sands fairly declined this claim. From the invoice submitted with the 
claim it looks as if the costs for a scale, polish and dental extractions were claimed in 
addition to the oral lump removal but I understand that Mr W was looking for Red Sands to 
only pay for the removal of the oral lump.If Mr W is concerned that Red Sands comments about the policy mean he was mis-sold the 
policy he will need to make a separate complaint about that matter. But I think Mr Ws 
concern is more general, which I can consider here. 
Red Sands final response letter to Mr W said that at the start of the policy, and where 
applicable at each policy renewal, it sent the policy terms to him and he could have 
cancelled or not renewed the policy if the policy didnt meet his requirements. I dont think  
Red Sands implied that its Mr Ws fault that the oral lump wasnt covered. It was reasonably 
saying the policy terms were sent to him so he could see if the policy was suitable.
I dont think those comments from Red Sands were contrary to the information it provided at 
renewal  that if Mr W changed insurer his dogs pre-existing conditions may not be covered 
by the new policy. Its reasonable and important for Red Sands to point out the implications 
of Mr W moving to another insurer, particularly when the existing policy provides lifetime 
cover. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman