DRN-3459207
The complaint
Mrs E complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
True Potential Wealth Management LLP is responsible for answering this complaint and so 
to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to True Potential.
What happened
In March 2016, Mrs Es employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a personal pension arrangement. 
Mrs E was concerned about what the announcement by her employer meant for the security 
of her preserved benefits in the BSPS. She was unsure what to do, so contacted an 
independent financial adviser (IFA). It didnt have the necessary regulatory permissions to 
advise on these types of pensions, so the IFA referred Mrs E to True Potential which is 
responsible for providing the pension advice. Information was gathered about her 
circumstances and objectives which were broadly as follows:
Mrs E was 41 years old, married and with two dependent children. She was in good 
health.
She lived in a home valued at approximately £145,000, owned jointly with her 
husband which had an outstanding mortgage of around £131,000. The mortgage had 
17 years left to run. 
Mr E worked in the same sector and had his own pension. Together they had a joint 
income of around £4000 (net) per month and a disposable income of over £1700 per 
month, after expenses. The had no other savings or liabilities.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mrs Es BSPS was approximately 
£314,596 and the normal retirement age (NRA) was 65. 
Mrs E said she intended retiring at the age of 65.
True Potential set out its advice in a suitability letter on 10 November 2017. It advised her to 
transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a SIPP. True Potential said this would allow 
Mrs E to achieve her objectives.
Mrs E accepted this advice and so transferred from her BSPS to a SIPP. In 2021 Mrs E 
complained to True Potential about its advice, saying she shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of her BSPS. In response, True Potential said it hadnt done anything wrong and 
was acting on the financial objectives Mrs E had at the time. 
Mrs E referred her complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with great care, the final response from True Potential, and in particular, all 
the points made in a comprehensive document dated 10 March 2022 from True Potentials 
legal advisers. But whilst Ive noted all the points made, Ive rightly focussed on what I think 
to be the relevant aspects and points in this case. 
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, True Potential should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mrs Es best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a SIPP was in Mrs Es best interests. And I dont think it was, so Im upholding her 
complaint.
Financial viability 
True Potential referred in its transfer analysis to critical yield rates. The critical yield is 
essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the transfer 
value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same annuity income as the 
DB scheme. Ive noted both True Potentials own views about the weight which ought to be 
applied to the critical yield, and also that this view was broadly repeated in the response 
from its legal advisers. However, the critical yield is part of a range of different things which help show how likely it 
is that a personal pension or SIPP could achieve the necessary investment growth for a 
transfer-out to become financially viable. So, as well as considering the critical yield, Ive 
looked at other financial comparisons and projections too.
In Mrs Es case, True Potential said the critical yield required to match the benefits of the 
proposed BSPS2 at the age of 65 was 5.05% if she took a full pension and 4.33% if she took 
tax-free cash and a reduced pension. And in my view, there would be little point in Mrs E 
giving up the guarantees and benefits available to her through this scheme only to achieve a 
lower level of benefits in a SIPP. 
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, True Potential also made mention of the PPF, which it 
described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension schemes when 
the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. It said the critical yield to match the benefits 
available through the PPF at age 65 was 4.4% per year if Mrs E took a pension under the 
reduced terms of the PPF and 4.16% per year if she opted to take a tax-free cash element 
and a further reduced pension. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 and 
was 4.6% per year for 23 years to retirement. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 
2%. 
True Potentials advice to transfer away from the BSPS to a SIPP was largely based on its 
view that Mrs E could grow her pension outside the DB scheme, in the recommended SIPP, 
to an extent that made transferring worthwhile. At the time, True Potential assessed Mrs Es 
attitude to risk (ATR) as balanced. 
I can see our investigator said that, in his view, Mrs Es ATR had been arrived at incorrectly 
and that her actual ATR should have been marked as lower. The significance of this is that 
in general terms, a lower ATR could constrain the ability of funds within a SIPP to grow; this 
would likely mean that if Mrs Es ATR was indeed much lower, then her transferred funds 
would probably grow at lower rates in the years ahead. Our investigator provided examples 
of why he thought this. These included Mrs Es complete inexperience of these types of 
money market investments and an apparent nervousness of stock market losses in general. 
True Potential therefore needed to consider these issues together with the loss of 
guarantees and benefits transferring to a SIPP would incur. When assessing her ATR and 
capacity for loss Mrs E completed a questionnaire. True Potential has pointed to various 
questions on the ATR form about general investment risk which Mrs E completed. However, 
Ive noted that at the end, under Your attitude to risk, the word cautious was ticked. Mrs E 
signed directly below this part of the form. 
I am therefore in broad agreement with the view of our investigator about her ATR being 
categorised too highly. We also know the starting position of the regulator is clearly based on 
transfers from DB schemes most likely being unsuitable. And further to that stance, the discount rate here was materially below the critical yield figure 
of 5.05%. The regulators low projection figure (2%) which I think is much more applicable 
to Mrs Es ATR, was also significantly below that rate. There was simply no reliable evidence 
from True Potential here that Mrs Es transferred funds could confidently exceed these 
projected growth rates to an extent that supported the advice to transfer away from a DB 
scheme, particularly when taking into account the impact of the charges and fees. Even 
small differences in projected growth rates can have a substantial effect over time, so I think 
these figures show Mrs E would most likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer-term 
by transferring to a SIPP. 
True Potential said its SIPP portfolio offered a suite of fully-diversified, discretionary 
managed investment solutions. With wide exposure to world-class investment managers, as 
well as diversifying your investment by asset class and geographic region, youll benefit from 
having more potential to grow your money and manage volatility, all in one portfolio. But it 
only attempted to demonstrate why it thought Mrs Es pension funds could grow more in the 
SIPP to exceed the benefits of her remaining in the DB scheme, on the basis of past 
performance. And past performance is no guarantee for future performance.
In reality, the figures show there was very little chance of the SIPP growth exceeding the 
critical yield rates, the discount rate or the regulators own projections. And Ive further 
considered that the initial fees, the annual platform and annual fund management charges 
related to the SIPP also added significant costs to the proposed recommendation. In my 
view, these would have eroded further, any credible chance that the SIPP was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs E on financial viability grounds.
In addition to this, Ive also noted that True Potential said that in order to purchase an 
annuity to provide all the benefits of equal value to the existing scheme at retirement at age 
65, the funds required would be around £728,000 if taking a full pension and £620,000 if 
taking a pension and lump sum. Even the lower of these figures is around twice the CETV 
and, in my view, this provides a window to the real value of what Mrs E was being advised to 
give up.
Both True Potential and its advisers have argued that too much weight ought not to be 
applied to certain components of this complaint and the final decision about it. But here, Ive 
applied a number of different observations, and in my view, they all provide a powerful 
indication of the real value Mrs E would lose if she transferred out of a DB scheme to the 
SIPP recommended to her. From a financial comparison perspective, transferring to a SIPP 
meant Mrs E would likely receive lower pension benefits in the longer term, when compared 
against the BSPS2. 
Of course, True Potentials recommendation was evidently supported by other reasons to 
transfer away. So Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a 
transfer was suitable for her, despite providing the overall lower benefits mentioned above. 
Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
In its suitability letter True Potential recommended a transfer to a SIPP based on what it said 
were Mrs Es objectives. I noted the following themes were listed:
A higher tax-free lump sum would be beneficial. 
A SIPP would provide varying levels of income at different stages of retirement.To enable sufficient death benefits to her spouse (she could retain the value of the 
accrued fund as a legacy to be inherited on death). 
So, it seems the supporting reasons that True Potential recommended the transfer was for 
the flexibility and control it offered to Mrs E. I have therefore considered all these issues. 
In its suitability letter, True Potential referred to Mrs E being able to access more tax-free 
cash via a SIPP, rather than a DB pension. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a SIPP when compared against a DB scheme; this is because the values 
and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But True Potential should have 
been telling Mrs E at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a SIPP, 
potentially from the age of 55, also came with consequences in that the amount left for her 
later retirement years would obviously decrease. 
So, whilst I accept the notion of accessing more tax-free cash might have been appealing, 
this needed to be considered against the other options Mrs E faced, including opting for the 
BSPS2. 
Overall, I cant see that Mrs E required flexibility in retirement in the way True Potential 
implied. True Potential said in its transfer analysis that Mrs Es estimated annual pension 
upon her NRA was £19,755 or £13,722 if she took a tax-free lump sum of £91,480. As a DB 
pension this was guaranteed and index linked and I think it fitted Mrs Es needs. There were 
also limited degrees of flexibility still available to Mrs E around retiring early had she opted 
for the BSPS2, although shed made it clear her anticipated retirement was 65 which was the 
same as the NRA for the BSPS2. 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mrs E wouldnt have been able to meet her 
retirement income needs by accessing her DB pension instead. And I cant see that True 
Potential identified the flexibility Mrs E would already enjoy at retirement - she had joined her 
employers new defined contribution (DC) scheme and would have been making 
contributions to it for over twenty years until she retired. Mrs E could have accessed this as 
she saw fit when she retired.
I have therefore considered everything True Potential said in its suitability letter about 
flexibility: it said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income she could 
withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the tax-free lump sum element. It also 
implied that Mrs E would be able to have complete control over the pension if she 
transferred out. 
However, Ive seen nothing which shows Mrs E had either the desire or capacity to exercise 
personal control over her pension. 
Mrs E was also only 41 years old at the time and unsurprisingly, she had no concrete plans 
for retirement. As Ive said, even if this changed, Ive noted that Mrs E could have retired 
early as a member of the BSPS2 and the PPF. I dont think this applied here, but even if it 
did, in these circumstances there would have been an actuarial reduction caused by early 
retirement from the scheme. This would have meant Mrs Es pension benefits would have 
been somewhat reduced due to her accessing the pension earlier and for longer. But Ive 
seen no evidence this was discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in her 
best interests, rather than her being advised to transfer away completely.
In my view, Mrs Es circumstances were much more aligned to her retiring from a DB 
scheme, such as BSPS2, and drawing a regular income. So, I think the suitable option was 
for her to access her DB pension in the way it was originally intended.Death benefits 
True Potential says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the SIPP would 
better enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mrs E died. It said this could be seen 
as a legacy to be inherited more flexibly. I think this was no more than a stock objective with 
no real relevance to Mrs Es situation. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP was probably made to look like an attractive feature to Mrs E. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mrs E might have thought it was 
a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a SIPP because of this, the priority here was to 
advise her about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think True Potential explored to what 
extent Mrs E was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Ive noted that at the time Mrs E was described as being in good health, and as Ive said she 
was still only 41 years old. Mr E was also only 42 years old. It also seems to me that Mr Es 
circumstances were not comprehensively considered by True Potential. Mrs E says she 
never actually met with the True Potential adviser and I think Mr Es job, benefits and 
pension arrangements were relevant and ought to have been factored in. 
I also think the likely death benefits attached to the DB scheme were substantially 
underplayed. True Potential said these werent fully known to it at the time  which would of 
course mean that it advised Mrs E to transfer away when it had failed to fully understand all 
the relevant information. However, Ive looked at the timescales involved and looked 
carefully at when emerging details of the new scheme were being released. Members were 
sent a Time to Choose booklet in October 2017 and I think its reasonable for me to say that 
BSPS2 was going to provide death benefits not substantially different to those in the BSPS. 
So, the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mr E if Mrs E 
predeceased him and I dont think True Potential made the value of this benefit clear 
enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. And there 
may not have been a large sum left anyway in a SIPP upon Mrs Es passing, particularly if 
she lived a long life. In any event, True Potential should not have encouraged Mrs E to 
prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal pension over her security 
in retirement.
Furthermore, it doesnt appear that True Potential took into account the fact that Mrs E could 
have nominated Mr E as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in her DC scheme. So, to 
this end, Mrs E had already ensured part of her pension wouldnt die with her.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
41 years old, this may have been a reasonably affordable product if Mrs E really did want to 
leave a legacy for Mr E and her children. 
Overall, in this case I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a 
SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs E. I think this objective, listed 
briefly as it was in the suitability letter, was no more than a generic comment and was not 
meaningful to Mrs Es situation.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme Its clear that Mrs E, like many employees of her company, was concerned about her 
pension. Her employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme 
and True Potential said she lacked trust in the company. Shed heard negative things about 
the PPF and True Potential said she could have more control over her pension fund. 
So, its quite possible that Mrs E was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because 
of the concerns she had about her employer and a negative perception of the PPF. 
However, it was True Potentials obligation to give Mrs E an objective picture and 
recommend what was in her best interests.
By the point of the advice being delivered details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely 
it was going ahead. So, I think this should have alleviated Mrs Es concerns about the 
scheme moving to the PPF.
However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that True 
Potential should have reassured Mrs E that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as she thought. The income available to Mrs E through the PPF would have still 
provided a significant portion of the income she thought she needed at retirement, and she 
was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out, given her actual ATR. And 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed 
and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these concerns should have 
led to True Potentials recommendation to Mrs E to transfer out of the DB scheme 
altogether.
Other issues
I have noted the specific points made by True Potential concerning Mrs Es likely financial 
needs in retirement. Of course, its important to bear in mind that retirement was some way 
off and any assessment of her future retirement income needs could only be, at best, an 
educated guess at that point in time. 
However, True Potential implied Mrs E may not even need a retirement income as provided 
by a DB scheme such as BSPS2, due to her circumstances; and it said such an income 
might actually be too high, thus resulting in a higher tax liability. But I think that to suggest 
Mrs E may have been likely to have more income than she needed from such a scheme, 
lacks credibility. Its certainly true that as of 2017 Mrs and Mr E were potentially on course 
for a retirement that was adequately funded, but by no means could it be said they would 
have excess income to the extent that made transferring away the right thing to do. Nor is 
there any evidence that Mrs E would become a higher taxpayer as a result of moving to the 
BSPS2 scheme.
Furthermore, if Mrs E genuinely found she had too much income in retirement, that could 
have been addressed at the time. For example, she couldve reinvested any excess income 
it for the benefit of her children. So, I dont think Mrs E should have been advised to 
irreversibly transfer out of the DB scheme, particularly when she had the option of joining the 
BSPS2, when it couldnt be known how much income shed actually require in retirement. 
True Potential also referred to a number of other pension complaint cases to broadly 
demonstrate its compliance with the rules and guidance in existence at the time. Ive noted 
what it said, but Ive focussed on the issues apparent in this case and Mrs Es 
circumstances.Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs E. But True Potential 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs E might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs E needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mrs E was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a personal pension, the evidence shows there was limited opportunity to improve on her 
BSPS2 benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify 
the transfer and outweigh this. I think True Potential ought to have advised her against 
transferring out of her DB scheme for this reason, particularly as it meant shed likely be 
worse off in retirement and would be bearing all of the risk.
So, I dont think it was in Mrs Es best interests for her to transfer her DB scheme to a SIPP 
when she had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been fully confirmed when the advice was given, but I 
think it was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead. Mrs E still had over 23 
years before she intended to retire. So, I don't think that it would have been in her interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits she would have faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. By opting into 
the BSPS2, Mrs E would have retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to her 
retirement age if she needed to. Also, Mrs E was married, and her husbands pension would 
be set at 50% of her pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump 
sum was taken at retirement (if Mrs E chose to do so). That she had children was another 
factor as they may have also been able to draw benefits from the scheme under certain 
circumstances. The annual indexation of her pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. 
On this basis, I think True Potential should have advised Mrs E to opt into the BSPS2.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mrs E would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that True Potential disclosed some 
of the risks of transferring to Mrs E, and provided her with a certain amount of information. 
But ultimately it advised Mrs E to transfer out, and I think Mrs E relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs E would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against True Potentials advice. I say this because Mrs E was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for almost all of her retirement provision at the time. So, if True 
Potential had provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
Im also not persuaded that Mrs Es concerns about the PPF were so great that she would 
have insisted on transferring her pension, knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise she had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her 
best interests. So if True Potential had explained Mrs E was also unlikely to exceed the 
benefits available to her through the PPF if she transferred out, and that she could meet her 
income needs in retirement without risking her guaranteed pension, I think that would have 
carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mrs E for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mrs E, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for True Potentials unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mrs E would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the SIPP if 
she'd been given suitable advice. So, True Potential should use the benefits offered by 
BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mrs E whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now, in 
line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be published.
Mrs E has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her 
complaint. So I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if 
a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mrs E.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mrs E has no plans at present to retire any earlier than age 65. So, compensation 
should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the 
FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Es acceptance of the decision.
True Potential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Es contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or 
S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, 
which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Es 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Es pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs E as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs E within 90 days of the date True Potential receives 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes True Potential to pay 
Mrs E.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
I have also considered the impact on Mrs E of the transfer, in particular the stress and
anxiety she said materially affected her physical health. It is understandable that she would 
feel such anxiety considering it was the majority of her retirement provision at stake. She has 
no other savings and an outstanding mortgage and I appreciate her concerns about how she 
will be able to provide for a reasonable retirement. For this I direct True Potential to 
additionally pay Mrs E the sum of £250 for the stress and anxiety caused by this unsuitable 
transfer. 
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect True Potential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: Ive decided to uphold this complaint and require True 
Potential True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mrs E the compensation amount as 
set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mrs E any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mrs E any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mrs E the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs E.
If Mrs E accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential 
Wealth Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs E can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs E may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman