DRN-3071541
The complaint
Mr C complains that Revolut Ltd failed to protect his account resulting in a loss of funds 
which they declined to refund.
What happened
Mr C has explained that he received various messages from Revolut indicating someone 
was trying to access his account. Mr C contacted Revolut through their messaging service 
and advised them that hed recently had to re-set other online accounts because of suspect 
activity. He sent Revolut screenshots of messages hed received from them indicating 
attempts to log in to his account from another device.
Mr C said he followed the instruction to change his password on his account and was 
messaging Revolut when his responses stopped. Revolut continued to send messages but 
received no reply and later locked the account. Mr C explained that shortly afterward the 
password was changed, he was locked out of his account and he was unable to access it. 
Mr C had previously linked his debit card from another bank account to his Revolut account. 
This allowed him to top-up his Revolut account with funds. Shortly after he was locked out 
of his account, several top-ups were made using his linked debit card and the funds were 
spent using his Revolut debit card.
Mr C later complained to Revolut about how theyd dealt with his situation. Revolut 
responded to Mr C and told him that their actions to prevent any losses werent completed in 
time. Mr C was unhappy with their response and brought his complaint to our service. Mr C 
wanted to know what Revolut had done to investigate his complaint and he wanted them to 
refund his bank and confirm his account had been closed.
In the meantime, Mr C received a refund from his bank related to the disputed transactions 
that were used to top-up his Revolut account. Mr Cs bank had used the Chargeback 
system to challenge the top-ups and this had resulted in the money being returned from 
Revolut to Mr Cs bank account. 
Mr Cs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who thought that because Mr C 
had already received a refund and Revolut had looked into the matter, there was nothing 
further to investigate and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C disagreed and said that he wanted a further investigation into how Revolut had handled 
his loss and that Revolut should refund his bank because the refund hed received from 
them wasnt permanent and may be taken back from him.
Mr C later clarified his complaint which in summary was that he remained unhappy with how 
Revolut had dealt with his situation, Revoluts customer service was poor, and he wasnt 
sure if his account was closed. Mr C thought that Revoluts security was poor and he still 
wasnt happy that the refund came from his own bank rather than Revolut. Mr C wanted an 
apology which explained how this had happened.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C had told Revolut he was receiving messages which concerned him and the 
screenshots hes provided show a message from Revolut about an attempted login from 
another device. The scenario Mr C described was an account takeover where an 
unauthorised third-party engineers access to the account, usually through scam messages 
or some form of social engineering.
Revoluts audit shows Mr C changed his password and shortly after a new device was 
registered which then went on to make the disputed transactions. Before a new device can 
be used with the Revolut app, it has to be authorised by the use of a code thats sent to 
either the registered mobile phone or email of the account holder. In this case, Revoluts 
records show a message was sent to Mr Cs registered mobile phone number. Its not clear 
how the new device was enabled to use the account without Mr Cs phone being available to 
the fraudster. 
Mr C hasnt mentioned a problem with his phone, although he did tell Revolut hed had 
issues with other online accounts that hed had to change passwords for. So, its possible 
that his account was taken over by someone who was unauthorised. Revolut were asked 
about possible account takeovers, but they couldnt find any evidence of this apart from a 
second device being registered just prior to the disputed transactions taking place.
Whilst its not clear if Mr Cs account was taken over and I dont think it will ever be proven 
either way, whats relevant to this complaint is that through a chargeback process, Mr Cs 
account was refunded by Revolut. I realise Mr C wanted Revolut to refund his bank because 
he thought the refund had come from his own bank, but that doesnt appear to be the case. 
Revolut confirmed to our service that theyd had to refund the money because of how the 
chargeback process was found in Mr Cs banks favour  rather than Mr Cs bank refunding 
the money from their own funds. So, I dont think its appropriate for any further direction 
concerning losses because Mr Cs account has now been refunded.
Mr C was unhappy with how Revolut had handled his situation and wanted to know more 
about their investigation. When Mr C first told Revolut about his concerns, Revolut were 
discussing the issue with him through their messaging app. Mr C stopped responding and 
Revolut continued to send Mr C messages for some time until they shut down the 
conversation because they hadnt heard anything back from him. It appears that this was the 
point that Mr C says he was locked out of his account.
Revoluts audit records show the new device was registered whilst Mr C was chatting to 
Revolut and because the process for authorising a new device was followed, I dont think at 
that point Revolut were aware of further issues with Mr Cs account. Upon reflection, Revolut 
might have realised there could have been an issue, but the information they had at the time 
and Mr Cs lack of response didnt lead them to the conclusion that his account was under 
threat. Im sure Revolut would have wished to have acted quicker at the time, and they 
revealed this in their final response to Mr C :
While you spotted the potential fraud quickly and actioned accordingly by contacting us, in 
order to prevent any abuse of your account or your accounts balance, all actions taken were 
not on time before fraudulent transactions have been made with your account.So, while I understand Mr Cs frustration with Revolut, his account was refunded to ensure 
he was put back in the position he would have been without these transactions leaving his 
account. Revolut have since confirmed that Mr Cs account was closed in September 2020.
Mr C wanted to understand more about Revoluts security and how this had happened, but 
Im afraid Im not going to be able to give those answers. The security precautions taken by 
a business are by necessity confidential and I dont think they particularly help with this 
complaint. What is relevant is that Revolut recorded a device change which was authorised 
after a text message was sent to the registered mobile phone for Mr C. Revolut had no 
reason to doubt this was incorrect at the time, but coupled with Mr Cs concerns they could 
have acted differently, which may have prevented Mr Cs losses. 
So, whilst I understand and appreciate Mr Cs position and the points hes raised, Im not 
persuaded that anything further needs to be done by Revolut. Mr C wanted an apology from 
Revolut which they included in their final response letter to Mr C. Whilst it doesnt cover 
everything he wanted, Revolut accept they let him down and I think this is a fair and 
reasonable way for the complaint to be recognised. As Mr C received a refund for his losses, 
Im not asking Revolut to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman