DRN-4214676
The complaint
Mr G complains that Santander UK Plc misled him about a promotional 0% purchase offer 
on the credit card he opened with them.
What happened
Mr G wanted a 0% promotional interest rate for purchases, so he opened a Santander credit 
card. He says he mistook the promotional offer for the 0% purchase rate which was due to 
end on 16 March 2022, for the balance transfer promotional offer ending on 16 July 2024 
when he made his application. Mr G says he spoke to Santander when he received 
correspondence from them and he says he told the agent that he was not going to be 
making any more purchases on the card, thinking that he would now arrange a direct debit to 
clear the balance by 16 July 2024 so he wouldnt have any interest to pay if he did that. He 
said the call handler implied he wouldnt be charged interest on the existing balance and at 
no point did the call handler clarify that he would pay interest on the existing balance. 
Mr G said that Santander did not send him any statement notification emails or text 
messages to notify him of his account balance, so he had no idea he was being charged 
interest. He says he later found out he was being charged interest and he requested a 
transcript of the aforementioned call, but he received poor customer service in getting the 
call transcript as there were delays and he had to spend a long time on the phone to get this. 
Mr G made a complaint to Santander. 
Santander partially upheld Mr Gs complaint. They said the promotional interest rate expired 
in March 2022 and as the terms and conditions of his account showed, once the purchase 
promotion had expired, any outstanding balance would incur interest. Santander apologised 
for the delay with the call recording and credited £50 into his account as an apology. Mr G 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. He said a Key Facts Document would 
have been supplied to Mr G when the account was opened, and this explains that an interest 
rate of 0% would be applied on purchases for three months from account opening. He said 
the interest would also show on Mr Gs monthly statements and he would expect Mr G to 
have been aware of the main features of the account, especially as a significant number of 
purchases were expected to be made. Our investigator said that when Mr G called 
Santander, he was correctly told that the 0% offer on purchases came to an end on 16 
March 2022. So while the agent might have provided greater clarity, she did not provide 
incorrect information and the interest was applied correctly. 
Mr G asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said his dispute is around the assumption that the 0% interest would apply to 
his account until 16 July 2024 as he believed that following the end of the purchase 
promotional rate that the 0% rate would apply on the remaining balance until 16 July 2024. 
He said this is what hed believed when he originally applied for the account. He said the call 
handler had given him misleading information to support his assumption. He said at no point 
did the call handler clarify that he would pay interest on the existing balance. Mr G also said 
Santander didnt send him statement notifications or balance updates to him and he didnt 
receive a warning that his promotional rate was due to end like the one he received from a 
third party company when his promotional interest rate was due to end on the third party 
credit card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive only summarised Mr Gs complaint points. And Im not going to 
respond to every single point made by him. No discourtesy is intended by this. Our rules 
allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point to be able 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their communications regarding their credit card accounts such as what emails and texts 
they should send to a customer about their account. It would be the role of the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Santander to make changes 
to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive listened to the phone call that Mr G had with Santander. Mr G asks the call handler if 
she can confirm whether all of his total balance was generating a particular rate of interest or 
whether it was a 0% interest rate. She said he was on a 0% interest rate for balance 
transfers until July 2024 and for the purchases that was only until the 16th of March 2022, so 
thats up now, and going forward your purchase interest would be 20.95% and Mr G says 
okay. So I do think the call handler was clear the 0% was only until 16 March 2022 and by 
her saying thats up now, this would indicate the promotion would have finished, especially 
given what she said about the promotional rate being only until 16 March 2022. 
The call handler tells Mr G that there has been no purchase interest added so far which 
would have been correct at the time he phoned Santander. She refers to the statement on 9 
March 2022 (which is a week before the promotion ended). She does say moving forward 
now anything he spends on the card would incur purchase interest. This is factually correct, 
and she had already said that the promotional interest was only up until 16 March 2022, so I 
dont think she needed to clarify something she had already said again here. 
Mr G mentions his direct debit and mentions 9 May onwards through to 16 July 2024. The 
call handler interrupts and confirms the balance transfer rate (not the purchase rate) would 
be 0% during that timeframe. Mr G says so 26 months left to pay the full balance and she 
responds yeah. But Im persuaded she is answering this in line with any balance transfers 
he would make as she had already told Mr G earlier in the call that the 0% interest on the 
purchases was up now. Mr G says can I make erm my monthly payment erm on the card 
erm £461 please after from the 9th May onwards and the call handler says yeah and tells 
him he may want to ring up and check his account to see if the April direct debit is affected.
So Im not persuaded that the call handler misled Mr G. The call handler did not say at any 
time that the purchases he already made would be 0% until they were paid off or that they 
would be 0% until 16 July 2024. There would be no reason for her to think this was what Mr 
G believed, as she had already said that it was balance transfers which were on the 0% 
promotional interest rate until 2024, so there would be no correlation to the purchases he 
had already made with balance transfers as these are two different categories. The call 
handler had already been clear when the purchase offer ended, and the rate was up now.  Ive also looked at the Key Facts document as this is what Mr G would have needed to agree 
to when applying for the Santander credit card. Im satisfied that this document is clear that 
there is a promotional rate of 0% from three months of account opening. But if Mr G was in 
any doubt about this, then his pre contract information, which was part of this document 
states on page three that If you have not repaid the outstanding balance by the end of the 
promotional period, your standard purchase/balance transfer interest rate will apply to the 
remaining balance until it is repaid in full. The standard interest rates will be significantly 
higher than the introductory/promotional interest rates.
So Mr G should have been reasonably aware that once the promotional offer ended, he 
would be charged the standard interest rate for the purchases made until they were paid in 
full. And Im not persuaded the call handler contradicted this. While a third party let Mr G 
know his promotional rate was ending, this would be a commercial decision that is up to a 
business to make, and as such, our service is not able to tell a business what commercial 
decisions they should make. So I cant say Santander have done anything wrong here, by 
not sending Mr G a separate notification in addition to his statements which would have 
already set out the account position. 
Section 4.3 of Mr Gs credit agreement reiterates that where introductory and promotional 
interest rates apply, they will end on the expiry of the relevant promotional offer. So in this 
case it would be 16 March 2022. So again, I do think Santander were clear on a couple of 
occasions prior to Mr G being accepted for the Santander credit card that the promotional 
interest rate would only be applicable for three months and then it would end, and then he 
would be charged the standard interest rate.  
In addition, it would be Mr Gs responsibility to check his monthly statements. This would 
have shown the interest he was being charged and possibly when his promotional interest 
rate would end. Section 19 of the terms and the conditions of the account  which again, Mr 
G wouldve needed to agree to prior to being accepted for the account shows they would 
send him a statement each month. It also says under 19.3 that he must tell us as soon as 
possible if you think the statement is wrong or you do not receive a statement. 
So if Mr G had misinterpreted what the call handler told him with his previous call, he would 
have been able to see that he was being charged interest from the first statement that he 
was being charged interest. So I cant hold Santander responsible if Mr G did not choose to 
view his statements when they sent him one each month. And if he didnt receive this then 
he was required to tell them as soon as possible. Im satisfied the £50 they credited Mr Gs 
account for poor customer service regarding the call transcripts was fair and in line with our 
awards for what happened here. So it follows I dont require Santander to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman