DRN-3351044
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, blocked a transaction from 
leaving his account.
What happened
Mr R holds a current account with Halifax.
 
In September 2021, he attempted to transfer £1,000 to another account that he held with a 
different provider. But Halifax blocked the transfer from going through. 
Mr R called Halifax to find out why the transfer had been blocked. During the call, the bank 
explained that the transfer had been identified as being at high risk. Halifax went on to say 
that Mr R would need to speak with a specialist team before the transfer could go through. 
Unhappy with this explanation, Mr R asked to speak with a manager to try and resolve 
things. He said hed incur losses, through paying interest elsewhere, if the money wasnt 
sent. But Halifax said that no manager was available and that it couldnt do anything further 
at that time. The bank reiterated that Mr R would need to wait for a phone call from its 
specialist team and, eventually, the call was terminated by Halifax after an agreement 
couldnt be reached. After the call was ended, Mr R called back and raised a formal 
complaint.
 
The transfer was eventually processed  but Mr R said the matter had caused him stress, 
anxiety and that it had brought on a severe headache for which hed had to take medication. 
Mr R said he was seeking substantial damages and asked for £5,000 compensation.
 
Halifax sent its final response letter to Mr R on 29 September. In it, the bank said it couldve 
handled things more appropriately. It apologised to Mr R for the way the phone call had gone 
and said it should have provided a better level of service. So, as a resolution, the bank 
offered Mr R compensation of £101. Specifically; £60 for the distress and inconvenience 
hed experienced, £36 to cover the cost of phone calls and £5 for petrol. 
Mr R remained unhappy and he referred his complaint to our service. An investigator here 
looked at what happened, and he thought that Halifax had done enough to resolve the 
complaint. In summary, he said:
Halifax has a duty of care towards its customers when making payments on their 
behalf, and the bank is entitled to set its own security process.
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs account set out that payments can be blocked if 
the bank wishes to undertake further investigation, which is what had happened here.
The adviser that Mr R had spoken to first did ask relevant questions about the 
payment, but the level of service Mr R had received during the call could have been 
better. 
Halifaxs offer of £101 in compensation was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mr R disagreed with the investigator and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. So, as no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know it will disappoint Mr R, Ive reached the same conclusion as 
our investigator and for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Ive checked the terms and conditions of Mr Rs current account, and Im satisfied they make 
it clear that Halifax may block a transaction where it has security concerns. So, I dont think 
Halifax made a mistake by placing a block on Mr Rs transfer for further checks to be carried 
out.
 
I appreciate that Mr R says was attempting to make a legitimate transaction. And the crux of 
his frustration is that there was nothing unusual about the transfer he was trying to make. 
But banks and building societies have a duty to protect their customers money from the 
ever-increasing threat of fraud. And unfortunately, this means that legitimate transactions 
may sometimes get delayed or blocked  which can, of course, be inconvenient for 
customers trying to make such payments.
 
Fraud, though, is a serious issue. And Id expect Halifax to have measures in place to pick 
up on potentially unauthorised or fraudulent payments  which is what happened here. So, 
with that in mind, I dont think Halifax acted unreasonably when it blocked the transfer from 
Mr Rs account.
 
Having said all of that, I do agree that Mr R couldve been provided with better service when 
he called Halifax. Its clear from listening to the call recording that the matter was distressing 
for him, and Im sorry to hear of the impact hes said it had. 
While I dont intend to downplay how the matter affected Mr R, I think the level of 
compensation that he requested  £5,000  would be excessive. Thats because, as Ive 
said above, I dont think Halifax did anything wrong when it flagged the transfer for further 
checks. Moreover, the transfer was processed after Mr R called back  and Ive not seen 
anything to show that he incurred any losses elsewhere as a result of the short delay.
 
So, in all the circumstances, all I can fairly award compensation for is the distress and 
inconvenience Mr R was put to. For which I think Halifax has already done enough to put 
things right by paying Mr R £101 to cover his costs and to recognise the distress caused. It 
follows that I dont require the bank to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 Simon Louth
Ombudsman