DRN-1311433
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2004. At the same time they took out  
a PPI policy which would have covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months at a 
time if Mr D couldnt work. The first six months of their cover was free.
Mr and Mrs D say they didnt realise they had the PPI. They say they didnt need the PPI as 
they had other cover and they didnt agree to buy it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Over 16 years has passed since the sale of the mortgage and PPI, so  unsurprisingly  
neither party has all the original documents used during the sales. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application. I can see from this 
that Mr and Mrs D were asked about whether theyd like more information about PPI. 
Theyve ticked to say they wanted to know about cover for Mr D and they both signed the 
form.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage offer included a section detailing the PPI they had selected.  Mr 
and Mrs D would have completed a separate form for the PPI which would have been sent 
off to the insurer. And they had to complete a separate direct debit form for the insurer to 
take the premiums, as they were taken separately to the mortgage repayments. 
On balance, I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr and Mrs D that they PPI was optional and 
they chose to buy it, although I understand why they dont remember this so many years 
later. 
Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs D a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it 
didnt need to check it was right for them. But Nationwide did need to make sure Mr and Mrs 
D had enough information about the policy to make their own informed decision.Nationwide has provided a copy of the leaflet which gives details about the policy. It says Mr 
and Mrs D would have received this at the point of sale. 
Mr and Mrs D say they didnt need the cover, not least because they already had cover 
elsewhere. Theyve provided a partial copy of the policy they had but it doesnt make it clear 
whether their mortgage repayments would be covered. But in any case, Nationwide didnt 
have an obligation to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs D and I am satisfied that Mr 
and Mrs D would have  as a very minimum - understood they were buying a policy 
designed to meet their mortgage repayments if Mr D couldnt work. So, it was up to Mr and 
Mrs D to decide whether they needed more cover.
The leaflet has a lot of detail in it about the terms and exclusions. Its possible Mr and Mrs D 
didnt fully understand it. But looking at Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale I think the 
policy was suitable for him, so even if Mr and Mrs D fully understood it I dont think they 
would have acted differently and not bought the policy. He was eligible for it and wasnt 
affected by any of the terms or exclusions which might have made it more difficult for him to 
make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical conditions or self-
employment.
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around the 
same time. It was flexible, as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial penalty. 
Indeed, Mr and Mrs D kept the policy for many years after their Nationwide mortgage was 
paid off, and still retained it after theyd made their complaint. 
So, on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs D lost out because of anything Nationwide might 
have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, so it follows that Leeds Building Society doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman