DRN-3603177
The complaint
Mr R and Mr T complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money Mr T was tricked into 
sending to a fraudster.
What happened
Though Mr R and Mr T are now joint account holders, I understand the account was only 
held by Mr T at the time and he was the only one that interacted with the fraudsters. So, Ive 
referred to Mr T throughout. In July 2021, Mr T received a text message which appeared to 
come from the postal service. It asked him to arrange a payment for a delivery. Mr T 
happened to be expecting a delivery from overseas and knew that a fee would be required to 
receive it. He followed the link and entered his debit card details to make a payment. 
Mr T believes that by following the link in the text message, software was installed on his 
mobile phone that allowed someone to access information on it.
Later that day he received a phone call from a number with a Scottish area code. The caller 
claimed to represent HSBCs fraud department and suggested that someone had been 
trying to make payments using his card details. The caller asked whether he had responded 
to any suspicious messages and, when Mr T confirmed he had, the caller suggested this 
was the reason for the fraud.
The caller appears to have gone into some considerable detail about the nature of the 
supposed fraud. They claimed someone had been into Mr Ts local branch with a passport 
and a driving licence issued in another country, but suspicions had been raised because the 
person did not match Mr Ts description. Mr T says he had recently lost his driving licence, 
which made what he was being told all the more convincing. 
Mr T is convinced that the caller had access to his account. He says they were able to 
precisely confirm the last transaction he made, including the location and the amount. It was 
even claimed that he hadnt received notifications of any attempted activity because these 
had been diverted to a different number. Mr T says this resonated with him as it was 
something hed recently heard about.
The fraudsters were able to convince Mr T that bank staff might be involved in the fraud from 
his account and that they required his help in order to catch the perpetrators. In order to do 
this, it was claimed, a dummy transfer would need to be made from his account. Mr T recalls 
a message saying the account details hed input couldnt be matched, but was told that this 
was normal as the account he was paying didnt actually exist. 
At this point, Mr T made a payment of £9,950 to an account at another bank. The payment 
was stopped by HSBCs fraud team and Mr T had a conversation with the bank. During that 
call Mr T claimed that he was paying his own account at another bank. He denied being 
asked to make the payment or having received a call instructing him to do so. HSBC 
questioned him about moving the entire balance and asked whether hed have enough 
money to cover his expenses. He confirmed that he did and that the transaction was 
genuine.
Following this conversation, the payment was released. Mr T says the fraudster then offered 
to temporarily credit his account with a loan so that he wouldnt be charged for going into an 
overdraft. An HSBC loan of £12,500 was applied for and credited to his account. Mr T cites 
this as further evidence that the fraudster had control of his accounts. 
The fraudster said theyd call back the following day with an update and that his accounts 
were now secure. Mr T didnt wait for the call back. He said that he started to become 
suspicious because, despite it being quite late at night when the call finished, he was told 
that his case was being actively worked. 
He reported the scam to HSBC the following morning. The fraudster continued to call back, 
this time from a number associated with HSBC. When Mr T informed the fraudsters that hed 
spoken to the real bank, they hung up and he didnt hear from them again. 
HSBC were able to recover £4,468 from the bank which received his money. It also paid Mr 
T £200 in compensation for the way that it handled his claim. However, it refused to 
reimburse the remaining loss.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. In this case, it says that two such exceptions apply  that Mr T ignored an 
Effective Warning and that he lacked a reasonable basis for belief in making the payment. 
One of our investigators upheld Mr Ts complaint. They thought Mr T had acted reasonably 
when making the payment and that HSBC hadnt done enough to warn him.
HSBC disagreed. In summary, it said:
- Mr T did nothing to check the validity of the caller and though the text might have 
been expected, the call wasnt.
- It questioned Mr Ts account of events in relation to the loan  arguing that in order 
for the fraudsters to apply for a loan, they would have had to have been given his 
online banking details
- He should have found the fact the caller knew his driving license was lost suspicious, 
given the bank would have had no way of knowing this.
- Mr T was given conflicting information about why his account was at risk  at first his 
debit card was being used, but later he was asked to catch fraudsters
- Mr T failed to check his account to see if there really had been any attempted 
transactions
- He failed to adequately question why the payment was going to a different bank
- During the security call, Mr T misled the bank and ignored some of the questions it 
asked. It also warned Mr T that he wouldnt get his money back if he proceeded with 
the payment and it turned out to be fraudulent
- It questioned what more it could have done to prevent the scam 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Did Mr T ignore an Effective Warning?
Its common ground that when Mr T made the payment, he did not choose the most relevant 
payment reason (Unexpected Request from Bank / Police / Organisation), but rather Paying 
Friends and Family. 
The warning that Mr T did see was not particularly relevant to his circumstances and Mr T 
cant be said to have ignored a warning he did not see. 
HSBC also provided a warning to Mr T during the phone call before the payment was 
released. The Code requires that as a minimum an Effective Warning should be 
understandable, clear, impactful, timely and specific.
Its agreed that Mr T misled the bank during the call. This clearly made it harder for the bank 
to give an Effective Warning, but it did not prevent it from doing so. It, I think, had identified 
what the primary risk was here  that Mr T might be falling victim to a safe account scam. Mr 
T was moving the entire contents of his account and this clearly caused some suspicion.
Mr T was asked whether he had been instructed to move the money and, more specifically, 
whether he had received a call from the banks fraud department. What the adviser failed to 
do is describe exactly what the risk was and what that might look like to Mr T. The adviser 
does not mention that fraudsters call customers impersonating the bank and may ask them 
to mislead the bank during security checks. And, if this happens, its a scam. 
So, while the adviser does explain the consequences of going ahead with the payment and 
the warning is somewhat tailored to the risk, it lacks sufficient impact to be Effective under 
the CRM Code. 
Did Mr T make the payment without a reasonable basis for belief?
Mr T strongly believes that the fraudsters had access to his device which allowed them to 
obtain personal information about him and, later on, apply for the loan which credited his 
account. 
Its difficult for me to establish conclusively whether this is the case or not and no evidence 
has been provided by Mr T to support this. Im also conscious that fraudsters can be very 
good at giving the impression of having prior knowledge of a victim through social 
engineering and that some of what Mr T has said could be explained in this way or by simple 
coincidence. On the other hand, the loan application could have only been completed by 
someone with access to Mr Ts online banking.
I have seen and heard Mr Ts testimony  both to our service and to the bank and it has 
been detailed and consistent. Hes adamant that certain pieces of information were known to 
the caller  particularly his balance and last genuine transaction. Its impossible for me to 
know how this could have been known to the caller and whether they were able to access Mr 
Ts device, with or without his knowledge. Attempting to establish this has not been made 
any easier by HSBCs inability to provide electronic records to show the activity which took 
place across Mr Ts mobile and internet banking. So, given how adamant and consistent Mr 
T has been about this and in the absence of that evidence Ive concluded that it was more 
likely than not that this information was known to the caller. 
It was unfortunate for Mr T, who says hes otherwise very conscious of scams, including 
those involving parcel fees, that he happened to be expecting a parcel when he received the 
scam text. Clearly the scam is designed cleverly, such that the phone call following Mr Ts 
reply to the text is made to appear as if it is the banks reaction to a breach of his security information, rather than a continuation of the scam itself.  I understand why Mr T, regretting 
his earlier mistake in responding to the text message would be keen to try and resolve any 
problem that had arisen from it. 
As noted, some of what the caller told him, could have probably been deduced from 
relatively basic information about him (for example guessing his nationality) or simply made 
up (like the suggestion someone had been into his nearest branch) and yet the elaborate 
nature of the story and the small details that Mr T still recalls (such as the fraudster 
apparently having his driving license, which hed lost) would, Im sure, have given the story a 
significant air of authenticity. Mr T does not, I think, suggest that the caller knew that his 
licence had been lost, only that a license in his name had been used by someone 
impersonating him. Neither do I think it relevant whether Mr T checked his account  hed 
only been told that transactions had been attempted, not completed.
Mr T clearly was convinced  he was prepared to mislead HSBC when it spoke to him about 
the payment. Its apparent that he genuinely believed that his accounts were at risk and he 
has described being overwhelmed with information, stressed, scared and worried about 
losing his savings. I think this had a part to play in his decision making and perhaps, in part, 
explains why he didnt question the fact that the fraudster claimed his account was subject to 
fraud before, and in a way which could not reasonably have resulted from, the text he 
received.
Many of what, retrospectively, were clear red flags were explained away by the fraudster  it 
didnt matter what payment reason he chose because it wasnt a real payment he was 
making, neither did it matter that the destination was another bank or that there was no 
confirmation that the receiving account was in his own name  the payment wasnt really 
going to go anywhere. 
Turning again to the call Mr T had with the advisor, Ive thought about whether it should have 
shaken Mr T from his belief that he had been speaking to the actual bank. As noted above, I 
dont think the advisor went far enough to address the risk and the effect of that was not only 
to render the warning they were trying to give ineffective but it also meant the warning didnt 
have a significant impact on his belief. In addition, the call was expected by the fraudsters 
and they prepped Mr T to expect certain questions and for him to give certain answers, so 
what happened during the call wasnt entirely unexpected. 
Overall, while I accept this is quite a finely balanced matter and that there are questions 
such as how the loan was applied for and why those funds werent utilised that remain 
unanswered, HSBC havent shown that Mr T ignored an Effective Warning or lacked a 
reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of the payment was legitimate. So, Im 
instructing HSBC to refund Mr Ts remaining loss. 
I note HSBCs point that it doesnt feel it could have done anything more to prevent the 
scam, but thats not the test Im applying, its whether Mr T ignored an  Effective Warning 
and whether he lacked a reasonable basis for belief.
Turning to the interest, though Mr T had a relatively high balance in his account at the time 
and has described the money as his savings, the transaction did consume all of his balance, 
which seems to include money he was using for everyday spending. 
Taking that into account, the fact Im not awarding interest on the money Mr T was deprived 
of between July and October 2021 (when a little under half the funds were returned) and in 
the interest of being pragmatic, Ive decided that HSBC should pay 8% simple interest per 
annum on the outstanding loss from the date it declined his claim under the CRM Code to 
the date of settlement. My final decision
I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr R and Mr T:
- The amount lost minus the amount already recovered and returned - £5,482
- 8% simple interest per annum from the date it declined his claim under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman