DRN-4382515
The complaint
Mr H and Miss S complain because Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited didnt pay Miss Ss 
claim for lost or stolen personal belongings under a travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss S were insured under a travel insurance policy provided by Admiral. 
In May 2023, Miss Ss baggage went missing while she was on holiday abroad. She made a 
claim under her policy with Admiral. Admiral declined the claim in August 2023.
Miss S complained but Admiral maintained its position that the claim wasnt covered. Admiral 
said this was because Miss S had left her baggage unattended. Admiral paid Miss S £100 
compensation for the time taken to make and communicate a decision about her claim. 
Unhappy, Miss S brought the matter to the attention of our service. 
Admiral subsequently offered to reassess Miss Ss claim, subject to the provision of any 
further reasonable evidence which it may require. Admiral also offered to pay Miss S an 
additional payment of £150 compensation for its decision to decline her claim. Admiral later 
increased this offer to £200 compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he thought Admirals offer 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Miss S didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator say that insurers must handle claims promptly and 
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when 
making my final decision about Miss Ss complaint. 
I dont think it was fair or reasonable in the circumstances for Admiral to consider Miss Ss 
belongings as having been left unattended. Im pleased to see that Admiral has now offered 
to reassess Miss Ss claim, subject to the provision of any reasonable evidence which 
Admiral may require in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If theres 
any subsequent dispute between Miss S and Admiral about what constitutes reasonable 
evidence and/or the amount of any claim payment due to Miss S then this would need to be 
the subject of a separate complaint. 
Admiral has now offered to pay Miss S £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused by 
its decision to decline her claim. This is in addition to the £100 compensation which Admiral 
has already paid to Miss S for its delays. Ive assessed the overall total offer of £300 
compensation as a whole, in line with my remit, to decide whether I think its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I understand Miss S says her holiday was ruined when her baggage went missing, and I 
have no doubt that this will have been inconvenient. However, experiencing an incident like 
this while on holiday abroad is unavoidably stressful and Admiral isnt responsible for the 
impact of the situation on Miss Ss holiday.   
It inevitably takes some time for a claim under an insurance policy to be investigated. 
However, Admiral has acknowledged that it took longer to make a decision about the claim 
than was reasonable. Admiral has also acknowledged that its initial decision to decline Miss 
Ss claim was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Its for our service to determine what evidence is necessary to investigate a complaint. I 
havent requested copies of the telephone recordings which Miss S has referred to because I 
dont think its necessary to do so - I fully accept what Miss S says about being given 
unhelpful advice on the telephone by Admiral in connection with her claim. 
But I can only award compensation to Miss S for the impact of Admirals errors on her, and I 
have no power to seek to punish Admiral through a compensation award for any incorrect or 
inappropriate advice given on the telephone. The award of £500 compensation which Miss S 
is seeking simply isnt an amount which Id consider fair and reasonable for the impact of 
errors of this nature.  
Having taken into account our published guidance on the payment of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience and the timeframe involved in this case, as well as the financial 
impact of the delay in any claim payment which Miss S may be entitled to being made to her, 
Im satisfied that Admirals offer of a total of £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must put things right and do the following:
reassess Miss Ss claim, subject to any reasonable additional evidence which 
Admiral may require, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy;
pay Miss S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This is in addition to the £100 compensation which has already been paid. 
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must pay the outstanding compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell it Mr H and Miss S accept my final decision. If it pays later than 
this it must also pay interest on the outstanding compensation from the deadline date for 
settlement to the date of payment at 8% simple per annum 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr H and Miss Ss complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited, 
and I direct it to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman