DRN-2260098
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as W has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down their business interruption insurance claim, after they were forced to close due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr O, a director of W, has complained on Ws behalf. 
What happened
W holds a business interruption insurance policy with Ageas. Mr O contacted Ageas to ask 
to what extent W would be covered for a claim due to Covid-19. 
Ageas said that, under the Notifiable Disease extension in Ws policy, W would only be 
covered if there was a case of Covid-19 at the premises. Mr O said he accepted this 
extension wouldnt provide cover as there didnt seem to have been a case of Covid-19 at 
the premises. Mr O asked if he could claim under the Denial of Access extension.
Ageas said this extension would require damage to property by a riot, civil commotion, 
strikers or locked out workers. It also said that damage caused by one of these events was 
excluded if it was through requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government 
or other statutory authority.
 
As Mr O was unhappy with Ageas response, he brought Ws complaint to our service. He 
explained the impact that lockdown was having on W and felt Ageas should pay Ws claim, 
under either the denial of access or notifiable disease extensions. Mr O thought the denial of 
access extension was ambiguous and should cover his claim, whether or not there had been 
damage to property. 
Our investigator looked into Ws complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought 
Ageas had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She 
thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at the 
premises. And Mr O said there was no evidence of Covid-19 at the premises. She also 
thought the denial of access extension required there to have been damage to property, and 
there hadnt been damage.
In response to the investigator Mr O pointed to the wording in the extension that he felt 
meant damage wasnt required for the claim to be covered. He asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact lockdown had on W. But for the same reasons the 
investigator set out, I wont be upholding Ws complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Ageas has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ws claim.  
Denial of Access extension
This extension within the policy says Ageas will cover: 
loss resulting from interruption of or interference with the Business in consequence of 
Damage from Cover Causes 1, 2, 3 and 4 to Property in the vicinity of the Premises which 
shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insureds premises, whether or not there 
has been Damage to the Premises or Property of the Insured.
The cover causes referred to are 1) fire, 2) perils (such as a riot or earthquake), 3) accidental 
damage and 4) theft or attempted theft. 
In order for W to be covered by this extension, there would need be to damage to property in 
Ws vicinity. The policy defines damage as Accidental loss, destruction or damage. By this 
definition, Covid-19 didnt cause damage to property in Ws vicinity. 
And even if there had been damage, it would need to be caused by one of the cover causes 
listed. There was clearly no fire, accidental damage or theft or attempted theft. This leaves 
the perils cause but I dont think this cover applies either. The perils are listed in the policy 
from A  J. Its quite clear that B  J arent relevant and so Ive looked carefully at part A. 
The relevant part is defined in the policy as:
 Riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or malicious people but not
Damage:
a) caused by theft or attempted theft
b) through requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government or other
statutory authority
c) resulting from the stoppage of work
d) arising when the Premises are Unoccupied
So, for this term to apply there would need to be damage to property in Ws vicinity caused 
by a riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or malicious people. There was no 
damage to property in Ws vicinity in keeping with this peril. And in any case, I dont think 
closure by the Government due to Covid-19 falls into any of these events. 
Also, a, b c and d are exclusions to this. So that means the policy wouldnt provide cover for 
damage caused through requisition, confiscation or destruction by order of the Government 
or other statutory authority, or resulting from the stoppage of work or arising from premises 
being unoccupied. However, given there is no damage, these exclusions make no difference 
to the outcome of this claim.
Mr O has pointed to the part of the extension that says whether or not there has been 
Damage to the Premises or Property of the Insured. However, this means that his 
property didnt need to be damaged, as long as property in Ws vicinity was damaged by one 
of the cover causes listed. But for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think there was 
damage to property in Ws vicinity. I also dont find this extension ambiguous as I think its 
clear there needs to be damage to property in Ws vicinity caused by one of the cover 
causes. Overall, given that this extension requires damage to property in Ws vicinity, and would 
need to be caused by a riot, civil commotion, strikers, locked out workers or malicious 
people, I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to say this term doesnt cover Ws claim.
Notifiable Diseases extension
There is an extension to the policy that covers Notifiable Diseases, Poisoning, Defective 
Drains and Murder or Suicide. This says:
The Company will indemnify the Insured in respect of loss resulting from the
interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of:
i. any occurrence of a Notifiable Disease (as defined below) at the Premises or
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises
ii. any discovery of an organism at the Premises likely to result in the occurrence of
a Notifiable Disease (as defined below).
Notifiable Human Disease is defined as:
illness sustained by any person resulting from:
i. food or drink poisoning
ii. any human infectious or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition)
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease, as defined by the policy, but I dont think this extension 
covers Ws claim. I say that because the policy requires the interruption or interference to 
Ws business to have been because there was a case of the notifiable disease at the 
premises. Mr O has confirmed there wasnt a case of Covid-19 at the premises and that he 
closed the premises as a result of the Government-imposed lockdown. 
Mr O has pointed to a Government announcement that he feels shows Ageas should be 
paying Ws claim. But the announcement hes referred to relates to policies that had relevant 
cover for what happened, which isnt the case here. So, the announcement doesnt make a 
difference to Ws claim. 
Having considered this matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask Ageas to pay the 
claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman