DRN-4397626
The complaint
Mr J and Mr O have complained that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction they say 
they didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
Mr Js card details were used to register for Apple Pay. Someone then used this Apple Pay 
token to attempt several online payments and one payment in person in a shop. There was 
only enough money for one of the online payments to go through, which was for £175. The 
other payments were declined.
Mr J reported the payment after paying some money in later that day. Mr J and Mr O have 
explained they were both at work at the time, hours away from the shop where the in-person 
payment was attempted. Only they had access to their respective phones, which were 
protected by their biometrics. Mr Js card was in his wallet, which was with him at all times 
and didnt go missing. He hadnt clicked any suspicious links, downloaded any new software, 
received any suspicious communication, or been asked to set up Apple Pay around that 
time. Their security details were not written down, no one else knew them, and theyd not 
been tricked into giving them out.
Monzo held them liable for the payment in dispute, on the basis that the Apple Pay token 
had been approved in Mr Js app on his phone.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr J and 
Mr O didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Monzo, Mr J, and Mr O a provisional decision on 26 September 2023, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
First, I do understand why Mr J and Mr O would like a breakdown of the technical data and 
the various codes involved. But the data is extensive, complex, requires proper knowledge 
and experience to appropriately interpret, and involves commercially sensitive information 
about things like fraud and security systems. So it would not be reasonable for us (or Monzo) 
to train Mr J and Mr O on how to interpret the data, or to explain things down to individual 
lines of code. Its also worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve disputes more quickly 
and informally than the courts. So I will instead focus my decision on what Ive found to be 
the key points of the case, and Ill explain in plainer terms what Ive found in the evidence.
In response to Mr J and Mr Os queries, I will clarify that once you set up Apple Pay on a 
device (i.e. set up a token) you dont need to go through the full setup security process 
again for every single payment. And while the records say MasterCard, thats just because 
Mr Js card was a MasterCard type of card (as opposed to, say, Visa or American Express) 
and it was Mr Js card which was registered to the Apple Pay token.
Broadly speaking, Monzo can hold Mr J and Mr O liable for the payment in dispute if the 
evidence suggests that it was authorised. I should clarify that this is not a criminal case, so 
Monzo does not need to prove things beyond reasonable doubt, as Mr J and Mr O 
suggested. Were just looking at whats most likely.
In order to register Mr Js card for Apple Pay, the person doing so needed his full card 
details. Mr J then needed to approve this new Apple Pay token on his Monzo app using 
either his PIN or biometrics. According to the technical evidence, this token was approved on 
Mr Js phone, at his IP address  the same phone and IP address which Mr J used for 
genuine activity both before and after. This phone was the only active device on the account 
at the time, and Mr J confirmed it was protected by his biometrics, it didnt go missing, and 
only he had access to it. So we can be reasonably satisfied that it was Mr J who approved 
the setting up of the Apple Pay token which was used here.
The data doesnt detail whether it was Mr Js PIN or biometrics that were used to set up 
Apple Pay  we just know it was one of the two. But only Mr J could reasonably use his own 
biometrics. And Mr J confirmed only he knew his PIN and it wasnt recorded anywhere. 
Theres no indication in the evidence that Mr J was hacked, no other device was involved, 
and from what Mr J and Mr O have told us there wasnt a likely way they couldve been 
hacked. So there doesnt seem to be a likely or plausible way that someone couldve set up 
this Apple Pay token without Mr Js permission.
A text was sent to Mr Js number to confirm that hed set up Apple Pay, and from the 
screenshot Mr J sent I can see he received it. But he didnt tell Monzo anything was wrong at 
that time. This also indicates that the Apple Pay token was set up with Mr Js consent.
Now, I do accept that Mr J and Mr O were not present in the shop where the in-person 
payment was attempted. Their workplaces have confirmed that they were both at work at the 
time, some hours away in a different part of the country. But even if I accept that Mr J and 
Mr O didnt physically try to make the payments themselves, it was still possible for them to 
have given someone else permission to make them. And given that Mr Js card was 
registered for Apple Pay in a way that only Mr J couldve realistically approved, its much 
more likely that the disputed payment was made by someone hed given his permission to, 
as opposed to it being unauthorised.
I cant say for certain why Mr J mightve authorised someone else to use his card with Apple 
Pay. There have been cases where people gave a friend or family member permission to 
use their card, or where they were scammed and were too embarrassed to say so, or where 
they authorised a fraudsters attempted activity because they were distracted and didnt pay 
attention to what they were authorising, and so on. The point is that there are many reasons 
why Mr J may have authorised someone to use his card details for Apple Pay. And based on 
what Ive seen so far, its not likely or plausible that anyone other than Mr J approved the 
setting up of this Apple Pay token.In summary, Mr Js card details, phone, app, and security credentials were used to add his 
card to this Apple Pay token and then make the disputed payment. There isnt a likely or 
plausible way this couldve been done without his consent. So Im reasonably satisfied that 
Mr J consented to setting up this Apple Pay token with his card details  even if perhaps he 
didnt realise thats what hed done. This meant that he effectively gave someone permission 
to use his card details and make payments on his behalf, in such a way that to Monzos 
system it would have looked like it was Mr J himself authorising them. And Im afraid that 
means Mr J and Mr O (as the joint accountholder) are liable for the disputed payment, rather 
than Monzo. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for 
Mr J and Mr O to receive. But given what both sides have sent so far, and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen so far, I currently think its fair for Monzo to decline a 
refund in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
10 October 2023. But neither side sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2023. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman