DRN-2845206
The complaint
Mr J complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont accept his public liability claim under his 
home insurance for fire damage to a fleet vehicle belonging to his employers whilst on his 
driveway. He is represented by Ms A. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mr J had parked the van, which he was entitled to drive, on his driveway. In the 
course of the day Mr J threw some ashes from his barbecue into his wheelie bin. 
Unfortunately the ashes were hot and the bin caught fire spreading to the van. The fire 
brigade extinguished the fire, but the van was a write-off. Mr Js employers insurers pursued 
Mr J for the cost of the van, expecting that he would be covered under the public liability part 
of his insurance. AXA considered the claim and corresponded with the third partys insurers. 
But ultimately it decided that the damage wasnt covered under the policy. This was because 
the vehicle was in Mr Js custody or control.
AXA advised the third party insurers that it wouldnt be indemnifying Mr J. Those insurers 
issued proceedings against Mr J. They obtained a judgment for around £18,000 against him 
but it was sent to the wrong address and Mr J succeeded in having it set aside. But his 
possible liability still remains.
Mr J complained to AXA and Ms A argued that the policy term regarding what was covered 
under public liability was unclear. In particular it appeared to read that damage to material 
property not belonging to him was covered when under his custody or control. AXA said that 
the term was quite clear, its underwriters and solicitors agreed that the cover only applied to 
property not under his custody or control. As the vehicle was parked on his driveway, it was 
clearly under his custody or control.  It did say it had taken too long to reach a decision on its 
liability and paid Mr J £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
On referral to this service our investigator said that the policy term was unclear and that it 
could mean that Mr J was covered. So it should be interpreted in his favour. He said that 
AXA should accept the claim and pay a further £200 compensation. 
AXA didnt agree and asked for a referral to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js claim is under the public liability section of his policy. This says:
We will pay.for any one claim or series of claims arising from any one eventthat you or
your family become legally liable to pay as compensationfor accidental:
..2 damage to material property not belonging to or in the custody or control of you, your 
family or domestic staff.
Point 2 is the disputed term. AXA says that the not in that clause applies to the custody or 
control. So it only covers property not in his custody or control. 
Ive read the term several times and Im still not clear what it means. It would make more 
sense if there was a second not before the words in the custody. Otherwise I think it could 
equally mean that the second part of the term applies to property that is in his care and 
control.  Theres a third possible meaning  that not belonging to and in the custody or 
control are alternatives.
Where a term is unclear, and particularly where further words have to be implied to discern 
the true meaning, it is fair and reasonable to interpret that term in favour of the consumer. 
This means that AXA should in my view accept the claim.
AXA has accepted that it took too long to decide on its liability. It seems to me to be likely 
that the third party insurers pursued the claim because they anticipated it being covered by 
AXA. Its possible that if AXA had said it wasnt indemnifying Mr J straight away those 
insurers might not have issued proceedings, given the difficulty of pursuing uninsured 
persons. I think, in addition to the £200 it has paid for the delay it should pay a further £200 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr J for the claim being pursued against him 
personally.  
Putting things right
AXA should indemnify Mr J for the claim made against him, subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
It should also pay Mr J a further £200 compensation..
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to act in accordance with what Ive 
set out in Putting things right above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman