DRN-3570600
The complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about mortgage advice she received from Corporate Solutions (Poole) 
Limited from 2016.  She doesnt believe that the financial adviser adequately reviewed her 
financial position properly, particularly in light of her plan to downsize in the following ten 
years, and so the advice wasnt suitable. She has also said that the early repayment charge 
(ERC) associated with the mortgage wasnt explained clearly, in that it was variable and 
volatile, and she received no illustrations of what it could be. Mrs C believes that had the 
ERC been explained properly, she may have made a different decision about accepting the 
recommendation that was made.
What happened
Mrs C took advice from Corporate Solutions in 2016 to take out a lifetime mortgage with 
lender L. At that time Mrs C was 62 and retired with an annual pension income of 
approximately £20,000. Her home was worth £750,000 and she had a £50,000 repayment 
mortgage with a high street lender that was due to be repaid in 2025. She wasnt recorded 
as having any significant savings or investments. 
It was detailed that Mrs C was happy in her home and didnt want to downsize at that time. 
She wanted to repay her existing mortgage, complete some home improvements and 
provide funds to do some travelling.  She also wanted to be able to make payments to the 
mortgage in order to mitigate the effect of the interest roll up. 
Corporate Solutions recommended that Mrs C take out a lifetime mortgage with L. £102,000 
was to be paid immediately as a cash advance and a further £33,000 placed in a drawdown 
facility. The interest rate was fixed. The adviser recorded that the particular mortgage was 
chosen because of the low interest rate and the lender offered a free survey. 
The terms of the mortgage provided that no monthly repayments were required. The 
intention was that the mortgage would become repayable if the borrower went into full-time 
nursing care or after their death. It could be repaid voluntarily before either of those events, 
but then an ERC would be payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
A key facts document was provided at the time the recommendation was made to assist 
explaining the mortgage. The document explained how the mortgage worked and how much 
Mrs C could borrow against her home. The maximum was £135,000 based on a property 
value of £750,000. This document went on to set out how much Mrs C would owe at the end 
of each of the following 25 years, based on the £102,000 advance. Section 13 of the 
document explained that the mortgage could be repaid early, but she might have to pay a 
substantial ERC. It said:
The Early Repayment Charge will reflect any change in the interest rates on government 
borrowing or Gilts. This will be measured using the FTSE UK Gilts 15 Year Yield Index (the 
index) which is published daily in the Financial Times.
If the Index is lower than the Benchmark Rate for your loan then an Early Repayment 
Charge will be payable. The lower the index falls the higher the repayment costs will be. 
No Early Repayment Charge will be payable if the Index is higher than the Benchmark Rate.
Examples of the amount of the ERC were then given, based on a 1% rise in the index, the 
index remaining the same and it falling by 1%. This showed that if the index was 1% lower at 
any point in the first fifteen years, the ERC on the advance of £102,000 would be over 
£25,000. It was also confirmed the ERC would be capped at 25% of the amount of the 
original advance.
Mrs C accepted the recommendation and the adviser then sent her a suitability report. This 
documented what her needs and requirements were, the different types of equity release 
arrangements available and what he was recommending. It went on to detail the positive and 
negatives of the proposed mortgage. The disadvantages included that the interest could 
grow to a substantial amount and if house prices didnt increase sufficiently, it could erode all 
of the equity in the property. It also said there might be a heavy penalty payable on early 
cancellation.  
Mrs C took further drawdowns from the mortgage between 2017 and 2019, totalling another 
£58,000. 
In 2019 Mrs C decided to move home. She ported her mortgage with L to the new property 
and paid an ERC because she reduced the size of the mortgage. In the autumn of 2021 
Mrs C re-mortgaged to a different lender and tool a lifetime mortgage with a fixed ERC. 
When she paid off the existing mortgage, she had to pay an ERC to L of around £29,000. 
She complained to L about the sale of the mortgage. L forwarded the complaint to Corporate 
Solutions. 
Corporate Solutions responded to Mrs Cs complaint, but didnt uphold it. It said that it felt 
that sufficient advice had been given to Mrs C and its file didnt suggest that information 
about the nature of the ERC hadnt been given to her. It also highlighted that her solicitor 
would also have explained the charges to her.
Dissatisfied with Corporate Solutions response, Mrs C asked this service to consider her 
complaint. Corporate Solutions objected to this, as the complaint had been referred to us 
more than six months after it sent its response to the complaint. One of my ombudsman 
colleagues considered this objection, but didnt agree, as the complaint response letter had 
been sent to an address at which Mrs C no longer lived. He was satisfied this caused a 
delay in Mrs C receiving the response and represented an exceptional circumstance that 
had prevented her from referring the complaint in time. He concluded this was a complaint 
we could consider.
One of our investigators went on to consider the merits of the complaint, but he didnt 
recommend that it be upheld. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators conclusions and felt that our investigator hadnt 
believed her account of events. She said that she believed the reasonable conclusion was 
that the mortgage was mis-sold, based on her reliance on what was said to her by the 
adviser, rather than on the documentation. Mrs C reiterated that she had told the adviser that she would be downsizing in the future, either when her son became independent or upon her 
inheriting her mothers property. She went on to explain that she had questioned the adviser 
saying in the documentation that she didnt want to downsize, and received the answer that 
this was a present tense statement, and was not meant to indicate that she would never 
downsize.
Our investigator considered Mrs Cs further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. He explained that when assessing a complaint, we tended to place a significant 
amount of weight on the documentation from the time of the sale. These documents didnt 
detail Mrs C had future plans to downsize, but they did document the ERC and how much it 
could be. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration.  
At each stage of our procedures we consider our jurisdiction to consider a complaint. I have 
done so, and I agree with my colleague that this is a complaint we can consider the merits 
of.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has complained on two fronts, the first being that the mortgage was not suitable for 
her, given that she always planned to downsize at some point in the future. She said that 
she made the adviser aware of this and doesnt feel that it was taken into account in the 
recommendation she was given. 
When a fact find is completed prior to advice, it is designed to take a snapshot of a 
consumers situation at that time. In addition, if they have plans for the future that could 
affect the suitability of any advice given, that would usually also be documented. In this case 
it was recorded at the time that Mrs C didnt want to downsize. That was a correct statement 
for the time, as shes confirmed that she didnt want to do so in 2016. However, there is 
nothing documented about the potential of that happening at some point in the future, as 
Mrs C is adamant was discussed. I cant comment on what was said in the conversation as I 
wasnt there, but given Mrs C was aware of her option to port the mortgage to a different 
property, would indicate that moving in the future was likely to have been discussed.
I think it would be appropriate at this stage to explain that it is standard for a lifetime 
mortgage to involve an ERC if it is paid off for any reason other than death or a move into 
long-term care. The ERC is generally for the expected lifetime of the mortgage and where a 
shorter fixed term ERC is offered, often the trade-off is a higher interest rate.  So I cant find 
that the mortgage was unsuitable for Mrs C simply because there was an ERC associated 
with it, even if the adviser was aware that she might be downsizing at some point in the 
future, as there would have been an ERC linked to any lifetime mortgage recommended. 
At the time of the advice it was documented that Mrs C wanted to repay her existing 
mortgage and release some money for home improvements and travel. She hasnt disputed 
this or suggested that she had another way to facilitate these needs, such as savings or 
investments. It was also documented that alternative ways of achieving this were discussed, 
including downsizing at that time and increasing her income by renting a room out. However, 
these were not things she wanted to do. It also appears that Mrs C also wanted the facility to 
draw more money from the mortgage in the future. In addition, she was living on a relatively 
modest income at the time, of which her existing mortgage would have been a significant 
portion. As such, reducing or removing the monthly cost of the mortgage would seem to 
have been something she wanted to achieve too.Having considered Mrs Cs needs and circumstances, I can only conclude that her options to 
provide what she wanted were limited. I dont consider the recommendation to take a lifetime 
mortgage was unsuitable. The specific mortgage recommended provided the immediate 
funds Mrs C wanted, and also provided for her to be able to draw further funds as she 
wanted. In the event that she wanted to move in the future, it was also portable, so that any 
ERC payable could be limited to just the amount she was reducing her borrowing by. I also 
note from the mortgage search that Corporate Solutions made at the time, the mortgage it 
recommended had the lowest interest rate available for a mortgage with a drawdown facility. 
Mrs Cs second complaint point about the nature of the ERC, in that it was variable and 
couldnt be predicted in advance of the mortgage repayment. Shes told us that this stressed 
her out when she was downsizing and porting the mortgage, and it wasnt adequately 
explained to her when the mortgage was recommended. 
Mrs C is correct in her summary of the nature of the ERC, in that the index it is dependent on 
can change on a daily basis. This type of ERC isnt unusual within the lifetime mortgage 
market and, while Mrs C doesnt think it was adequately explained to her orally, I am 
satisfied the key facts document she was given did explain the nature of the charge. It also 
made Mrs C aware that the amount could be significant and gave a monetary figure for the 
maximum it could be. The mortgage offer issued to her by L would have also set out the 
nature and potential amounts of the ERC. 
While I havent seen the documentation issued to her at the times she took her further 
borrowing, I think it is reasonable to assume the documents complied with the regulators 
requirements, and so that same information would have been provided for the further 
borrowing. I know that Mrs C wont agree with my conclusions, but I think she had enough 
information to know the potential maximum cost of the ERC and that it was variable when 
she agreed to take out the lifetime mortgage. Indeed, I note that she questioned L about the 
promise of the ERC being a maximum of 25% of the advance, as she appears to have 
assumed it would be calculated using the amount of the original advance.
I know that Mrs C wont be happy with my conclusion, but I am not persuaded the lifetime 
mortgage was unsuitable for her or that she wasnt provided with the necessary information 
about the ERC.
Both parties confirmed that theyd received the provisional decision. Neither provided any 
further evidence or comment about the merits of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and Ive revisited my provisional decision. Having 
done so, and in light of neither party making any further submissions, I am still of the opinion 
that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman