DRN-1135689
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 2000. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep 
things simple in my decision, Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA.
Mr J is unhappy that PPI was added to his store card, saying that he wasnt told about the 
policy, and that he didnt require it.
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr J disagreed with these findings. He has stated that if he had known he had PPI cover, he 
would have claimed under it when he was off work with a broken hand. Mr J has reiterated 
that he was not told that he was taking out PPI when he applied for the card. He has also 
confirmed that he took the card out in order to obtain a discount on his store purchases. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Js complaint for the following reasons:
Mr J has stated that he was not aware that he had taken out PPI on the card, and 
that the card application he made in store was rushed. Clearly I cant be certain 
about what exactly was discussed when the policy was sold. I must therefore reach a 
conclusion on this matter based on the weight of evidence provided. In addition I am 
mindful that the sale took place almost 20 years ago, in my view making it more 
difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit agreement that Mr J signed when he took out the store card, there is a 
section relating to the PPI. Mr J has signed in this separate section, which 
requested that PPI be taken out on the card. Other sections of the form that related 
to other options available were not selected by Mr J. Overall, based on the content of 
the store card application, in my view it is more likely than not that PPI was presented 
to Mr J as an optional product, and that he chose to take it out.
 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. 
I cant be sure whether AXA gave Mr J sufficient information about the PPI to make 
an informed choice about it. However Mr J doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover. I have thought carefully about the 
employee benefits that Mr J says he was entitled to when sold the policy. I also acknowledge his comments that he took out the card to obtain discounts on 
purchases in store. However, overall I consider that the policy could have been 
useful to Mr J if he wasnt working due to disability or unemployment.
 
On balance my view is that better information would not have led to Mr J deciding not to take 
out the policy. 
I note Mr Js comments that he was off work due to a broken hand whilst the policy was in 
force, but didnt make a claim. Whilst for the reasons explained above this doesnt affect my 
opinion about whether the policy was mis-sold, Mr J would need to contact AXA if he wishes 
a retrospective claim under the policy to be considered.
Although I appreciate Mr J will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that the 
policy was not mis-sold. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
John Swain
Ombudsman