DRN-1764670
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy that NewDay Ltd trading as Debenhams Storecard (NewDay) registered 
a default against her account with the credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mrs W was in arrears on her account due to some challenging personal circumstances. She 
wrote to NewDay to explain these and make a payment on 5 September 2015. This payment 
wasnt enough to clear her arrears on the account, but Mrs W said she would make a further 
payment later in the month.
NewDay issued a default notice to Mrs W on 16 September 2015. On 30 September 2015, 
NewDay placed a hold on Mrs Ws account and contacted her to request medical evidence. 
It chased this in December 2015. As NewDay hadnt received the evidence it had requested, 
it says it defaulted Mrs Ws account in January 2015. Mrs W says the account wasnt 
defaulted at this point but that she didnt receive any further statements from it after this time.
NewDay says a wider technical issue came to its attention later in 2016, where Mrs W hadnt 
been sent the correct statutory notice before being defaulted. So it says a corrective default 
notice was sent to Mrs W in June 2016. Mrs W says she didnt receive this but received 
other correspondence suggesting the account was still active. So no further payment was 
made to the account and no further contact appears to have been made by NewDay to 
chase Mrs W for repayment of the debt.
NewDay has also identified that it had some issues with its systems which meant, despite 
the account being in default, the account wasnt being reported to the credit reference 
agencies.
In January 2019 NewDay sent a letter to Mrs W explaining that it was selling her account to 
a third party. This third-party registered details with the credit reference agencies and 
Mrs Ws credit score decreased significantly as a result of this, which she believes is unfair 
in circumstances.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that there had been 
mistakes but that NewDay had been entitled to register the default and he didnt think it 
should be removed. Mrs W didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The events which led up to Mrs W having arrears on her account are very challenging and 
Mrs W has my deepest sympathies. I can see that these events had a significant impact on 
her.My role is to decide this complaint based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances  so I have considered whether I think NewDay made a mistake.
NewDay has acknowledged that it should have sent a default notice in January 2016 but due 
to a system error which affected several accounts, the notice wasnt sent. While I would 
usually expect NewDay to send a default notice, I have to consider whether I think it would 
have made a difference if it had. Mrs W was aware there was still a debt on the account 
when she contacted NewDay in September 2015. And she received a statement in January 
2016 showing her account balance. While Mrs W says she made a further payment, I think 
she should have been aware that there was an outstanding balance remaining on the 
account. And while Mrs W says she made some assumptions about an account charge 
refund and her Payment Protection Insurance being used, Mrs W didnt receive any 
correspondence about these or speak to NewDay specifically about these issues  so I dont 
think it was reasonable to assume the debt had been written off or repaid.
And when a further default notice was sent in June 2016 to replace the one that hadnt been 
sent, Mrs W didnt make the payment to bring the account up to date. So I havent seen any 
evidence that convinces me that Mrs Ws account wouldnt have defaulted if she had been 
sent the default notice on January 2016. So I dont think NewDay made a mistake in 
defaulting the account in January 2016.
Mrs W doesnt believe the account was defaulted in January 2016. She says it was clear the 
account was still active. But I dont think thats the case. Ive seen evidence from NewDays 
systems showing the account was placed in default on 29 January 2016. And having 
reviewed the letter sent to her in May 2016, it seems to be a generic letter about a wider 
review NewDay had carried out and doesnt specifically address any of her circumstances, 
so I dont agree that the wording of this letter is evidence that the account was still open.
Mrs W has commented that she stopped receiving statements after January 2016  and that 
reinforces that the account was defaulted as monthly statements are often not sent once an 
account is defaulted. This is because the entire balance has become due, rather than a 
minimum amount for that month. Mrs W says her last statement in January 2016 states that 
a payment is due in February 2016. But NewDay was obliged to send monthly statements 
until the account was in default  and therefore I dont think its unusual that it sent Mrs W a 
statement shortly before defaulting the account.
Mrs W has also said that she doesnt agree that the defaulted amount should show as £423 
 but that is the balance showing on her account statement on 26 January 2016. The 
account defaulted a few days later on 29 January 2016 and no payments were made before 
that date so I think the default amount is correct.
Mrs W says NewDay shouldnt have sold her account, but I dont agree. The terms and 
conditions of the account state we may transfer our rights and our obligations under this 
Agreement to someone else, including information about you and how you have managed 
your account. So I think NewDay was entitled to sell the account to a third party at any time 
if it chose to  and I dont think it was wrong to sell the account.
I have reviewed the information recorded on Mrs Ws credit file and it appears to be correct, 
so I dont think it needs to be amended. The score she is given is not a universal score  
rather it is used by the credit reference agencies to give consumers an idea of how financial 
institutions may view their credit file. So while Mrs Ws score may have decreased 
significantly as this account has just been added, I dont think its been added incorrectly. 
And Mrs W has had the benefit of not having a defaulted account recorded on her credit file 
for four years.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman