DRN-3751959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had travel insurance through their bank account, the policy is underwritten by 
Aviva. They booked a trip for December 2021 with their travel plans on both the departure 
and return including a stopover of a few hours in another country to pick up a connecting 
flight.  
On their return journey, Mr and Mrs P were denied boarding by the airline staff as they said 
they didnt have the relevant travel documentation. As a result, Mr and Mrs P incurred 
additional expenses to return home. 
Mr and Mrs P made a claim to Aviva for the additional expenses, but the claim was refused. 
Aviva said that the circumstances of the claim fell outside the policy terms.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs P complained to Aviva and brought the complaint to 
this service. Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She found that Avivas decision to decline the claim was reasonable, based on the 
policy coverage.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our investigators opinion. As no agreement could be reached, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free 
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made 
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs P. Rather it reflects the informal 
nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding 
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Mr and Mrs Ps claim relates to additional travel and accommodation expenses incurred 
when they were denied boarding on their return flight to the UK. Mr and Mrs P said the 
airline staff told them they didnt have the correct documentation to travel, although Mr and 
Mrs P believe this is incorrect.  
Aviva has said there is no cover under the policy for the circumstances which caused Mr and 
Mrs Ps claim. It has referred to the unexpected costs section of the policy and the part 
relating to missed transport which states the following:
If the insured person misses their pre-booked transport because of an unexpected 
transport delay, such as the vehicle theyre travelling in breaking down, or public 
transport being delayed or cancelled, well pay for alternative travel and 
accommodation costs to enable the insured person to reach their destination.
When reviewing the complaint, our investigator also looked at the travel disruption part of the 
unexpected costs section which says:
Well cover your unexpected additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the 
insured person to continue their trip or to get home at the end of their trip, if their pre-
paid travel plans are disrupted for the following reasons
I. The insured person is unable to leave their home, reach their departure point 
or their pre-arranged accommodation due to severe weather, a natural 
disaster, fire or explosion.
II. A natural disaster, severe weather, fire, explosion or an outbreak of food 
poisoning means the insured person is unable to use their pre-booked 
accommodation.
III. The insured persons travel or accommodation provider becomes insolvent.
IV. The insured persons pre-booked travel arrangements are cancelled or 
delayed for more than 12 hours from the time shown on their ticket or diverted 
after departure.
V. The insured person is denied boarding because there are too many 
passengers and no alternative is available for more than 12 hours.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
When looking at this section of the policy, I can see that cover is provided for additional 
travel and accommodation costs incurred to come home if this is caused by one of several 
listed reasons. From what Mr and Mrs P have told us, they were refused boarding as the 
airline stated they didnt have the correct travel documentation. This is not one of the 
reasons detailed in the policy for which Aviva will provide cover for additional expenses 
following a missed flight and therefore Im persuaded the decision by Aviva to refuse the 
claim under this section is fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked at the remainder of the policy wording to see if there are any other sections 
which would consider Mr and Mrs Ps claim, but the circumstances they found themselves in 
dont appear to fall within any of the other sections of cover provided. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ps claim is covered under the policy terms and conditions, 
nor are there reasonable grounds upon which it would be fair for me to ask Aviva to accept 
this claim. Im therefore not persuaded that Aviva needs to do anything more.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they were left stranded the day before Christmas and incurred 
great costs when they believe they had the correct documentation to travel. I can understand 
their frustration with the situation, especially considering when this occurred, and how 
difficult it may have been for them to make new arrangements. But it is important to note that 
insurers are entitled to decide what risks they will accept (in return for the premium). The events they will and wont cover just need to be clearly set out in the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And Im satisfied that Aviva has clearly set out the reasons it will accept cover for 
travel disruption or missed transport in the policy terms provided to Mr and Mrs P. So, this 
point doesnt make a difference to my outcome.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman