DRN-4056538
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc provided him with poor customer service 
when he tried to make a cash withdrawal from the branch.
What happened
Mr P says he went to a NatWest branch to withdraw £10,000 and they asked him why he 
needed to withdraw this amount. He told them the reason and NatWest said he needed to 
get a receipt. Mr P says when he told them he didnt have a receipt, the cashier accused him 
of trying to cheat his tax. The cashier also accused Mr P of shouting at him, but he explained 
this was due to a disability he has. He says he was told that he needed to get out of the 
bank, or they would call the police. He says they also made fun of his disability. Mr P tried to 
ring NatWest about what happened, and he says he was left on hold, and he was promised 
a call back but he never got one. Mr P made a complaint to NatWest.
NatWest partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. They said that no bank error had occurred with 
the attempted withdrawal. They said there are procedures that staff have to follow, or this 
puts their role within NatWest at risk because they are bound by security protocols. NatWest 
said it is always advisable for customers to order money as they dont hold a large amount of 
cash due to security protocols. The letter contained a link where Mr P can easily inform them 
about any vulnerabilities he has, so they can better help him in the future. But NatWest 
acknowledge that Mr P had been left on hold when he tried to talk to them about this over 
the phone and he hadnt received a call back despite asking for one, so they credited his 
account with £50.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. He 
said the impartial nature of this service means that he wouldnt be able to accept at face 
value any one version of events put forward over any other version, without reasonable 
cause to do so. He said he was confident the checks and questions would have been made 
with any other customer requesting a withdrawal for the same amount and while Mr P may 
not have known this, it is likely this is why there was some misunderstanding from both 
parties. Mr P asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have a duty to ensure that they meet their security procedures to keep their 
customers money safe. It is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run their 
security procedures and policies. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial 
Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct NatWest to make changes to their policies 
and procedures, if necessary.
NatWests procedure for withdrawals of the size that Mr P was wanting to make is that they 
advise a customer to provide 24 hours notice of the withdrawal. Im satisfied that this is 
reasonable as NatWest have explained to him in their final response letter that they dont 
hold a huge amount of cash for security reasons, although this is not a mandatory 
requirement if they are able to meet their customers needs. 
In addition, NatWest have a duty of care to protect their customers against fraud and scams. 
So if a customer is making a large withdrawal where they appear to need money straight 
away, which could be perceived as them being under pressure from a third party, they will 
ask questions which can appear to be intrusive or irrelevant. 
I wont be able to know for certain what was said in the branch when Mr P attempted to 
make the withdrawal as counter transactions arent recorded in the same way that a 
telephone call may be recorded. Closed-circuit television (CCTV) would not provide audio as 
to what happened on the day in question, and in any event it is likely to have expired due to 
the time thats passed since this incident occurred, so Im unable to rely on this here also. 
In these instances, NatWest would ask the staff involved to provide a written testimony about 
what happened. I have read what the staff have said about this incident, and Ive also read 
what Mr P has said about this. Both parties agree that he was told he would need to give 24 
hours notice for a withdrawal and both parties agree that he was asked the nature of the 
withdrawal and if he could provide a receipt/invoice about the service he needed the money 
for. But both parties dont agree on Mr Ps allegations that he was mocked due to his 
disability. And the staff testimonies state Mr P was shouting and swearing at the staff.
Mr P has explained that due to his disability, his voice can appear to be raised. Im satisfied 
that this is reasonable, and this is likely to be the reason why he was perceived to be 
shouting in the branch. However, when considering the version of events that followed, I can 
see that the branch staff recorded the instance on their internal procedures, outlining that Mr 
P had been abusive, and followed their procedure with escalating to senior managers. As 
such, I am persuaded that Mr P demonstrated behaviour which NatWest deemed to be 
unacceptable in this instance. I say this because they followed their usual procedures, and 
this was done immediately after the event.
But NatWest did let Mr P down by not providing him a call back as he asked them to and by 
leaving him on hold. So what I would expect them to do here is to apologise, recognise the 
impact this would have had on Mr P, and to compensate him for this. NatWest sent Mr P 
correspondence dated 28 December 2022 where they apologised for this and credited his 
account with £50 compensation. Im satisfied this was fair. I say this as it is in line with our 
established guidelines for compensation. So if NatWest had not upheld this part of his 
complaint, then I would have awarded Mr P this amount of compensation for the distress he 
would have had when he was left on hold and didnt receive a call back. 
Im satisfied that the security checks and questions that Mr P was asked in the branch would 
have been similar with any other customer who was trying to make a similar cash withdrawal 
without notice as this forms part of NatWests security procedures. So it follows I dont intend 
to ask NatWest to do anything further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NatWest did not respond to my provisional decision. Mr P did not accept my 
provisional decision. He made a number of points. In summary he said when he visited the 
branch, he was asked what the withdrawal was for and when Mr P told him, the cashier 
asked him if he was trying to cheat his Value Added Tax (VAT). Mr P says the cashier then 
stood up and asked him to leave the bank or he would call the police. He said he didnt 
swear at the staff or give them verbal abuse and they had no right to refuse his withdrawal. 
He says that when he informed the cashier of his disability, the cashier said he had the same 
disability, and he wants the cashier to be sacked. Mr P said that the CCTV footage should have been looked at. He said it was against the law that he couldnt have his money and he 
advised me to look at articles in the newspaper regarding how NatWest treated their 
customers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about what happened in the branch and his interaction 
with the cashier. But as I said in my provisional decision I wont be able to know for certain 
what was said in the branch when Mr P attempted to make the withdrawal as counter 
transactions arent recorded in the same way that a telephone call may be recorded. So as 
both parties testimonies are different, there is not enough evidence for me to take one sides 
word over another. 
In my provisional decision I said I am persuaded that Mr P demonstrated behaviour which 
NatWest deemed to be unacceptable in this instance, this is describing what NatWest 
deemed to be unacceptable. But I also explained that Mr P has explained that due to his 
disability, his voice can appear to be raised. Im satisfied that this is reasonable, and this is 
likely to be the reason why he was perceived to be shouting in the branch.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about him wanting the cashier to be sacked. But our 
service does not have the remit to do this. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution 
service for complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant law, regulations and 
industry guidance amongst other things, make findings about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of a complaint.. This is why I wont be able to consider the news 
articles which Mr P has directed me to as I can only consider what happened with his 
interaction in the branch and not other peoples experience with NatWest. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said about requesting CCTV, but as I explained in my 
provisional decision, Closed-circuit television (CCTV) would not provide audio as to what 
happened on the day in question, and in any event it is likely to have expired due to the time 
thats passed since this incident occurred, so Im unable to rely on this here also.
Mr P has said it was against the law for him not to have his money. But if Mr P wants a 
decision that NatWest have breached any laws, then hed need to go to Court. NatWests 
terms and conditions set out when they can limit the use of his account and his services and 
as I said in my provisional decision NatWest have a duty to ensure that they meet their 
security procedures to keep their customers money safe. It is not within this services remit 
to tell a business how to run their security procedures and policies. It would be the role of the 
regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct NatWest to make 
changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary.
In summary, Mr Ps response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I hope 
he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman