DRN-2956021
The complaint
In summary, Mr Fs complaint is about advice he was given by Phoenix Life Assurance 
Limited (trading as Pearl Assurance) to transfer his pension benefits in his former employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS), into a personal pension. 
In bringing this complaint, Mr F is represented by a claims management company that I will 
refer to as C.
What happened
The advice Mr F complains about was provided in 1991. As part of the industrywide pension 
review set up by the Securities and Investment Board, the advice provided to Mr F was 
reviewed. Phoenix concluded that Mr F had lost out as a result of transferring his pension. It 
offered him two compensation options. One was for it to make a compensation payment into 
Mr Fs personal pension. The other was to explore reinstatement of benefits into his former 
employers pension scheme. Mr F accepted the first option and Phoenix paid compensation 
into Mr Fs personal pension. 
Mr F, through C, complained to Phoenix in 2020. In summary, C said: 
Phoenixs representative was bound by the LAUTRO (Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation) rules. It set out an advisers obligations under those rules 
which it said included giving an investor all information relevant to those dealings and 
using best endeavours to enable the investor to understand the nature of any risks 
involved. And when advising an investor as to the suitability for an investor of an 
investment contract, to have regard to the investors financial position and to any 
rights they may have under an OPS or SERPS. 
The representative had common law duties as well. In particular to act with 
reasonable skill and care. They also a duty to disclose risks and alternatives to 
allow informed consent, as confirmed by the 2015 Supreme Court case of 
Montgomery v Lanarkshire Health Board. 
If investment costs could be avoided altogether, they should be (particularly if the 
alternative comes with guarantees and/or protection against the effects of inflation). If 
they cant be avoided altogether, they should be kept to a minimum. 
Mr Fs complaint was in essence, that he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out 
of his defined benefit scheme. It went on to particularise its points of concern. 
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr Fs personal pension had been included as 
part of the industry wide pension review in 1999. The review found that the advice was 
unsuitable. A loss assessment was undertaken, and an offer of compensation was made 
which Mr F accepted. A compensation payment was made into his personal pension plan.
The complaint was referred to our service. Mr Fs concerns were looked into by one of our 
investigators. But they didnt uphold the complaint.  
In summary, they said the suitability of the advice Mr F had been given, had already been 
reviewed as part of the pension review. And the pension review wasnt designed to be an 
ongoing process for re-evaluating the situation, but a one-off exercise to establish any loss 
and pay any appropriate compensation. 
C on behalf of Mr F, didnt accept the investigators assessment.  It didnt agree that there 
was any provision in any regulatory guidance that an advice firm had to carry out a review 
once. It also referred to the current FG17/9 guidance for what should happen when a 
previous review wasnt carried out at all or not carried out correctly. It said that pension 
review records should be retained indefinitely and those had been requested from Phoenix 
but hadnt been provided. It asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Phoenix provided its pension review file to the investigator. I asked the investigator to 
provide this to C and to give it time to make any observations on that information. No 
response was received from C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has referred to the regulatory and legal position at the time the advice was provided to 
Mr F, and why Phoenix shouldnt have recommended he transfer his former employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) into a personal pension. I agree with C that Phoenixs 
adviser had legal and regulatory duties when advising Mr F in 1991. 
But in Mr Fs case, Phoenix has in essence accepted that the advice was unsuitable after it 
carried out the pension review, and that he shouldnt have been advised to transfer the 
benefits from his OPS into a personal pension. So, I dont need to consider the suitability of 
the advice that was given to him. 
Phoenixs redress calculation carried out as part of the pension review, established that Mr F 
had suffered a loss. It subsequently offered him compensation which Mr F accepted. And 
that was paid that into his personal pension. The crux of the issue argued by C on behalf of 
Mr F that I need to consider, is whether the review was carried out correctly and appropriate 
compensation paid to him.  
As C should be aware, the pension review was intended to be a one-off exercise. It was 
instigated as a result of concerns about widespread pension mis-selling.  Its aim where mis-
selling was identified, was to put customers as far as possible, back in the position they 
would have been in, if they hadnt received unsuitable advice. 
The regulator at the time the review was set up, set out a methodology for businesses to use 
to assess whether individuals had suffered a financial loss, and to calculate appropriate 
compensation. A number of assumptions were used in the methodology, taking into account 
what the regulator at that time thought were fair, to be able to calculate appropriate 
compensation. These included assumptions about the expected investment returns to 
provide benefits at retirement. 
However, over time since the review was carried out, economic conditions such as falling 
annuity rates and reduced investment returns, have resulted in the assumptions that were 
used not being reached in a number of cases. And that has resulted in the compensation 
that was paid to many consumers, not providing the benefits that they were intended to do.As Ive said above, the review was intended to be a one-off exercise. And although 
assumptions in relation investment growth and annuity rates havent been met in many 
cases, that isnt necessarily a reason for a review to be carried out afresh. 
The purpose of the pension review was to draw a line in respect of this particular issue of 
pension mis-selling. It was intended to provide some finality for customers and businesses. 
Customers would know that their concerns had been investigated and where mis-selling had 
been identified, compensation would be paid. And businesses would know that having 
investigated and paid compensation, it wouldnt have any liability in the future to pay further 
compensation. 
In its submissions, C on behalf of Mr F, has referred to new guidance issued by the FCA in 
2017  FG17/9. This was originally aimed at complaints upheld about OPS transfers 
received after 3 August 2016 or for complaints received before this date that hadnt been 
settled in full and final settlement already. 
Although it was at first proposed that any case which fell within the pension review period 
would be omitted from the updated guidance, it was eventually decided that some cases 
could be included. And this was in relation to where reviews by businesses hadnt been 
carried out in accordance with regulatory standards at the time of the review - and/or where 
the particular circumstances of a case were not addressed by those standards. 
C doesnt think Phoenix had demonstrated it had completed the review in line with regulatory 
requirements. And it said that in these cases, the FCA made it clear that FG17/9 guidance 
should be used to determine appropriate redress. And where a firm couldnt demonstrate it 
had carried out the review in accordance with regulatory requirements the only fair 
assumption to make was that it had not.
If I believed the redress calculation carried out by Phoenix hadnt been carried out correctly, 
then I could direct Phoenix to carry out a fresh calculation using the updated guidance. And 
that is provided for in the Pension Review bulletin five. This said that where an offer had 
been made and accepted in good faith and it was subsequently identified that the calculation 
contained an error, a re-calculation should be carried out using the same effective date as 
the original calculation.
However, Ive not seen any evidence in this case which indicates Phoenix didnt carry out 
the review in accordance with the guidelines set out by the regulator at time the review was 
carried out. And Ive not been provided with any evidence or arguments by C that persuade 
me that the review and calculation wasnt carried out correctly in this case.
So, in the particular circumstances of Mr Fs case, I havent seen anything that persuades 
me Phoenix should carry out a fresh calculation using the FG/17 guidance. From what Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that the transfer was reviewed, and compensation calculated in line with 
the regulators guidance and requirements at the time. So, Im not going to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Simon DibbleOmbudsman