DRN-4054503
The complaint
Miss P complains that Zopa Bank Limited should not be holding her liable for a loan she 
says she took out because of a scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, Miss P says she is the victim of a romance scam.  She explains she developed a 
relationship with someone she met online, whom I will refer to as S in this decision.  Miss P 
says S deceived her into taking out two loans and making several payments to him.  
In this complaint, Miss P is disputing one of these loans: a Zopa loan in her name for 
£12,000.
Miss P raised the above matter with Zopa asking it to write off the loan.  As this did not 
happen, she raised a complaint which she referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  As Miss P did not 
accept the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
I do acknowledge that Miss P says she took out the Zopa loan because of a romance scam 
she fell victim to.  However, this is not a reason I am able to rely on to direct Zopa to write off 
the loan.  It would not be fair in the circumstances for me to ask Zopa to do this when 
considering the fact Miss P consented to the loan by applying for it herself.  Zopa was not 
aware of the scam at the time the loan was taken out.  The fact that Miss P took out the loan 
because of a scam does not negate the fact that she consented to it, and therefore can be 
held liable for it under the associated loan agreement.
I can see Miss P has expressed some concerns about service-related issues.  Broadly, 
issues around Zopa: not placing the loan repayments on hold; being aggressive; and asking 
Miss P whether she is on medication.
First, it is entirely Zopas discretion to come to any agreement concerning repayment of the 
loan debt.  That said, based on what I have seen, it appears as if Miss P is making a wider 
complaint point about the affordability of the loan.  If this is right, then as the investigator in 
this matter suggested, Miss P will have to raise this as a separate issue with Zopa.
Secondly, based on the evidence before me, I have not seen any satisfactory evidence to 
suggest Zopa has been aggressive in its communications with Miss P: in written 
correspondence or otherwise.  To my mind, Zopa dealt with Miss P in the way I would expect 
in a case of this nature.
Thirdly, I do not find that Zopa did anything wrong in asking Miss P whether she was on 
medication.  Having listened to the telephone call concerned, I take the view that Zopa 
asked this question sensitively.  I also take the view that it was an appropriate question to 
ask given the circumstances of this case.  Further, Miss P did not appear to take issue with 
the question when she was asked during the call.  In fact, she herself acknowledged the 
reason behind why this question was being asked.
Taking all the above points together, I do not find that Zopa did anything wrong in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  I consider it fair for Zopa to hold Miss P liable for the loan 
concerned if it so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman