DRN-3125196
The complaint
Mr C complains hes been treated unfairly by The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 
because his pension fund didnt receive the benefit of a positive unit price adjustment (UPA).
What happened
Mr C wanted to switch units between two Prudential funds, in which his pension money was 
invested. On receipt of his instructions on 27 May 2020, Prudential said the trade would be 
settled by close of business on 24 June 2020. This was due to the 28 day waiting period for 
this type of trade.
The fund that Mr C was switching to had a positive UPA on 25 June 2020. So Mr C expected 
to receive the benefit of that adjustment. But because of the process involved in switching 
funds, Mr Cs units were allocated to a holding account on 24 June 2020, so they didnt 
qualify for the adjustment.
Mr C considered this was unfair. He said the holding account was appropriate for new 
money, but he was switching between funds so he considered he should have the benefit of 
the adjustment. The fund hed switched out of also had a positive UPA and hed missed out 
on this because of the timing of the switch and Prudentials processes.
Prudential didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said it had completed the switch in line with the 
terms and conditions, and it wasnt obliged to apply the UPA as Mr C wanted. Prudential 
said the switch to the new fund meant Mr Cs investment was treated as new money, so it 
was appropriate to place it temporarily in the holding account. Prudential didnt consider it 
had treated Mr C unfairly. But Mr C was unhappy with Prudentials response and referred the 
matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He concluded that Mr 
Cs units had been properly switched out of the first fund in line with the accounts terms and 
conditions. 
The investigator accepted that Prudentials email to Mr C about the timing for completing the 
transaction couldve been clearer. But he was satisfied that the email was referring to the 
process for transferring out of the first fund. The investigator wasnt persuaded that Mr Cs 
units shouldve been invested in the new fund by 25 June 2020, so he didnt think they were 
eligible for the UPA. The investigator therefore wasnt persuaded that Prudential had treated 
Mr C unfairly.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said both funds had received 
positive UPAs, so he still considered it unfair that he had missed out. Mr C also said that 
hed understood Prudentials email to mean that the switch out of the first fund and in to the 
second fund would be completed by 25 June 2020. 
Mr C asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the matter has been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs instructions to Prudential were as follows:
Can you please arrange for a Fund Switch for the full amount from the Managed 2 Fund to 
the Managed 3 Fund on myRetirement Account.
Prudential sent the following message in response:
Just to confirm thatin line with the 28 day waiting period of Prufund, this trade will be fully 
settled by close of business Wednesday 24 June 2020.
Im satisfied that Mr Cs instructions were clear enough to make Prudential aware he was 
switching out of one fund and into another. 
Im also satisfied that the 28 day period referred to in Prudentials response was in 
connection with the time frame for switching out of a fund. 
But I dont think the email made it clear to Mr C that following the switch out, the terms and 
conditions meant his units would then be held in a holding account until the next investment 
date  which is the 25th of the month. Given the wording of the email, I can understand why 
Mr C was under the impression that the switch out of the first fund and the switch in to the 
new fund would both be completed by 24 June.
In addition, Prudentials contract note appears to show that the switch out of the first fund 
and switch into the new fund both completed on 24 June 2020. 
But Prudential has said that once the switch out had taken place the units were, in fact, held 
in the holding account. This would correspond with paragraph 3 of the accounts terms and 
conditions which says:
3. Buying PruFund Units
3.1 When you invest in PruFund you are allocated holding account units until you 
reach the first investment date after you invest in the holding account *
[*terms in bold are definitions within the policy terms and conditions]
Under the terms and conditions, investment date means the 25th of each calendar month or 
the following working day if that date is not a working day.
From what Ive seen, I think Prudentials email to Mr C couldve been clearer. And I also 
think that the details in the contract note suggest he was invested in the second fund, rather 
than the holding account, on 24 June.
Prudential has said that the UPA was applied to units already held in the second fund on 25 
June. Once that had happened, switches from the holding account were made to the second 
fund. Mr Cs units were in the holding fund when the UPA was applied, which meant they 
didnt qualify for the UPA.As Ive said, from what Ive seen, I think some of Prudentials information could have been 
clearer. But we here we identify this kind of failing, our approach means that we look at 
whats more likely than not to have happened if that failing hadnt occurred. 
In this case, Prudential should have explained that, once the units had been switched out of 
the first fund, they would be retained in a holding account until the next investment date - 
which was 25 June. This is in line with paragraph three of the terms and conditions.
This would have clarified the position for Mr C. But importantly, Im not persuaded it would 
have made any difference to the treatment of his units, or indeed Mr Cs decision to proceed. 
The units would always have needed to be retained in the holding account until after the 
UPA had taken place.
I can see why Mr C might consider it was unfair that he missed out on the UPA, given the 
timing of the switches. And I fully sympathise with Mr C  I agree that the timing of matters 
here produced a really unfortunate outcome, and I can entirely understand his 
disappointment. But from what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Prudential treated the units in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account. So Im sorry to disappoint Mr C further, but I 
dont think there are any fair or reasonable grounds (in the sense of fairness to both parties) 
on which I could, or would, uphold the complaint and compel Prudential to apply the missed 
UPA.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman