DRN-4404417
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains that Aviva Life Services UK Limited mis-sold an equity 
release mortgage to Mr and Mrs B.
What happened
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B received advice from Norwich Union Life Services Ltd to take an 
equity release mortgage. That business is now part of Aviva Life Services UK Ltd  Ill refer 
to Aviva in this decision.
Both Mr and Mrs B have passed away. The complaint is brought by Mrs Bs estate. They 
said that the equity release mortgage was mis-sold as it was not properly explained that 
interest would be compounded or the impact of that on the loan balance.
The investigator did not consider the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs Bs estate did not accept what the investigator said. They made a number of points, 
including:
The terms of the equity release mortgage required independent financial advice to be 
taken. But the advice from Aviva was not independent. This was not brought to Mr and 
Mrs Bs attention  and they were vulnerable at the time in question.
The solicitor produced Mr and Mrs Bs wills at the same time  there is no connection to 
the equity release mortgage in that.
Going through Mr and Mrs Bs papers, the estate could not find any statements or letters 
from Aviva showing interest accruing.
Aviva has not recorded the address correctly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our rules set out time limits that I would usually have to apply and it is likely this complaint 
was brought outside those time limits. But Aviva has consented to us considering the 
complaint, so I am able to look into it.
We have a copy of the fact find completed by Aviva. I consider it more likely than not that it 
was completed at the time in question and reflects Mr and Mrs Bs needs and circumstances 
at the time. It shows that their total monthly outgoing equalled their income and that they had 
around £3,000 in savings. It said that Mr and Mrs B wanted a new kitchen, a new car, a 
holiday and an additional amount to draw down in future.  
The recommendation letter sets out that Mr and Mrs B did not want to consider other options 
to raise money  and its not clear what else they could have done to raise the money they 
wanted, bearing in mind the evidence shows they did not want to move house or make 
payments towards the debt. I cant see any other way that Mr and Mrs B could have met 
their objectives to raise around £40,000 with a further amount available for drawdown. So I 
think it was reasonable for Aviva to recommend an equity release mortgage to Mr and Mrs 
B. 
Aviva was also required to give Mr and Mrs B clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the risks and benefits of the equity release mortgage. The mortgage offer includes a 
clear illustration of how interest is added to the equity release mortgage and how that 
increases the balance of the mortgage over its term. This was an important document and 
there was a reasonable expectation that Mr and Mrs B would read it. I consider that is 
sufficient to show that Aviva gave Mr and Mrs enough information to understand how interest 
was applied.
Mrs Bs estate said that there was a requirement for the person giving mortgage advice to be 
independent. I cant see any such requirement in the terms of the mortgage or in the relevant 
rules. But in any case, I consider that the advice was reasonable  and in my view it is in line 
with what the relevant rules required at the time in question  so it would not make any 
difference to the outcome here. 
The estate points out that the brochure said that any financial advice given by Norwich 
Union financial advisors will only relate to the products sold or marketed by the Norwich 
Union Group. But that is what happened  a Norwich Union adviser recommended a 
Norwich Union Group equity release mortgage. As I explained above, Aviva is the successor 
firm to Norwich Union. 
There was a requirement for Mr and Mrs B to obtain independent legal advice. We have a 
letter from a solicitor to Aviva showing that they did receive such advice. It was reasonable 
for Aviva to consider theyd received independent legal advice. The solicitor was not giving 
financial advice  that was solely Avivas responsibility.
I note the solicitor refers to the Aviva adviser as the Lifetime Mortgage Providers 
representative/Independent Legal Adviser. That appears to be an error  Aviva were not 
giving independent legal advice. But Aviva is not responsible for that error. And again, it 
makes no difference to my finding that the advice was reasonable.
I consider it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to consider that an equity release mortgage 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs B  and it gave an adequate explanation of how interest would 
be applied. 
There is a minor difference between the address on the statements produced by Aviva and 
the Land Registrys register of title  although it does not follow that the postal address is 
incorrect. Im not sure that is sufficient to say that Mr and Mrs B would not have received the 
statements. But in any event, whether Mr and Mrs B received statements or not, it doesnt 
follow the advice was unreasonable.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman