DRN-3220354
The complaint
Mr B complains that the loan he had from Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B took out a loan with Everyday Loans on 7 November 2018. He borrowed £2,500 and 
was due to repay £191.45 monthly for 24 months.
Mr B says that Everyday Loans didnt verify his income and expenditure and the repayments 
were unaffordable to him. He says the debts have left him financially stricken and hes been 
struggling for two years.
Everyday Loans says it verified Mr Bs job and income, reviewed bank statements, obtained 
a payslip and conducted a credit search. It adds that it asked Mr B about his living 
arrangements and rent and used a statistical average to estimate his other non-discretionary 
living expenses. It says the checks showed the loan was affordable. Everyday Loans says it 
believes its checks were proportionate and the repayments were sustainable over the term 
of the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Everyday 
Loans had enough information to see that Mr B was already over-committed to credit 
repayments. He recommended that any payments made by Mr B should be deducted from
the principal and that Everyday Loans should attempt to set up a suitable repayment plan for
the remaining principal. He also said that any adverse information should be removed from
his credit file.
Everyday Loans responded to say, in summary, that it had made provision for all Mr Bs
existing credit commitments and that its calculations showed that the repayments were 
affordable to him. It adds that there was nothing on his credit file to suggest he was 
struggling financially.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr B and to Everyday Loans on 18 November 2021. Ive 
summarised my findings below:
I was satisfied Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks which showed:
oMr B was using the loan to buy a car and driving lessons;
oHe lived at home with his parents;
oHis average monthly income was around £1,175 and he paid rent of £50, both 
of which could be verified with the bank statement;
oMr Bs existing credit included:
One loan with a balance of £4,817 and monthly repayments of £161;
Three credit cards with a combined balance of just over £3,000;
A mail order account with a balance of £948 and monthly repayments 
of £41;
An overdraft of just over £1,000;
His regular expenditure appeared to be well below the £429 estimate used by 
Everyday Loans.
Although Mr B was spending around one third of his income on credit commitments, I was 
satisfied that the checks carried out by Everyday Loans did not indicate that the repayments 
on the new loan were likely to be unsustainable for Mr B.
My provisional decision was that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision.
Neither Mr B, nor Everyday Loans, responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice as 
outlined in my provisional decision.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman