DRN-2425471
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive mortgage application Mr and Mrs W made to 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in February 2019 to re-finance the cost of a 
recently-completed self-build property. The mortgage was refused as NatWest does not lend 
on self-build properties less than two years old. 
Mr and Mrs W, represented here by Ms L, say they were reassured many times between 
2016 and 2019 that the bank would provide a mortgage once a building completion 
certificate (BCC) was obtained, and on condition that the loan to value ratio didnt exceed 
70%. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive no regulatory function; its not my role to decide what NatWests lending policy should 
be. If NatWest doesnt wish to lend on self-build properties that are less than two years old, 
thats a matter for its commercial judgement. But it should apply that policy fairly and not 
mislead consumers about what its policy allows.
The evidence weve obtained from NatWest confirms that the restriction at the heart of this 
complaint was only introduced in October 2018. So Im entirely satisfied that any indication 
NatWest gave Mr and Mrs W before then about the possibility of obtaining a mortgage on 
their self-build wouldnt have been misleading. What this case turns on therefore, is 
exclusively the contact Mr and Mrs W had with NatWest after the restriction was introduced.
The formal application for the mortgage was only submitted in February 2019, once 
Mr and Mrs W had obtained the BCC. It was rejected on the grounds of the property 
restriction without any further underwriting checks having been carried out. The decision to 
reject was a fair application of the policy at it was at the time the application was made. Also, 
it is possible (and I can be no more definite than that) the application might still have been 
rejected for another reason had it been subjected to full underwriting.
But Mr and Mrs W have said they were in contact with the bank in October 2018; a visit to 
their local branch. They say this was NatWests opportunity to tell them about the policy 
change. Had it done that, they say they wouldnt have gone to the expense and effort of 
obtaining the BCC but would instead have looked sooner for the mortgage they eventually 
obtained elsewhere. Its that delay that underpins their claim to be compensated for the extra 
cost of servicing their existing debt before it was re-financed.
I dont have the exact date in October that NatWests lending policy change took effect; nor 
do I have the exact date in October 2018 that Mr and Mrs W visited the branch. So its 
possible the policy change happened after the visit. However, if I give Mr and Mrs W the 
benefit of the doubt and work on the basis the policy change happened first (and that 
Mr and Mrs W should have been told about it during the branch visit) its fair that NatWest 
should pay them compensation for their time and trouble. Ill come back that later, but first Ill 
deal with the claim for the costs Mr and Mrs W are seeking. 
Im happy to take Mr and Mrs W at their word when they say theyd have started looking for 
another lender in October 2018. But I then have to consider what would most likely have 
happened if theyd done that. 
Going back to what I said earlier about the balance of probabilities, the thing that strikes me 
is that any lender Mr and Mrs W approached that was willing to lend on their self-build would 
in all likelihood have required them to obtain a BCC before accepting a formal application, 
just as NatWest did. And given what theyve said about what was involved in getting a BCC, 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have committed to doing that until after theyd found 
a lender that was prepared to give them an in-principle decision at the very least.
It took about six months from March 2019 to find an alternative lender (Ill call it M) willing to 
lend. Mr and Mrs have attributed that to the level of unsecured debt that existed by then, but 
that debt was already substantial in October 2018, and therefore likely to be a major 
obstacle to prospective lenders. 
Notwithstanding what they believe, I think its more likely than not that if Mr and Mrs W had 
started looking in October 2018, it would probably have taken about the same amount of 
time (so to about April 2019) to find a willing in-principle lender and then theyd have had to 
embarked on the task of obtaining the BCC before formally applying for a mortgage. 
That took about four months, which gets us to August 2019 at the earliest before 
Mr and Mrs W would have been able to submit the full mortgage application to M. Allowing M 
time to underwrite that application, its more likely than not that Ms offer would still have 
been issued in or around September 2019.
Putting all of the above together, Im not persuaded that its likely Mr and Mrs W would have 
been issued with a mortgage offer significantly sooner than they were. The various steps of 
the mortgage process might have happened in a different order but in my view, the overall 
time taken to get a mortgage offer would most likely have been about the same as it was. 
Ive no doubt the stress Mr and Mrs W experienced before they were able to complete the 
mortgage and settle the unsecured debt was considerable. But for the reasons Ive set out, I 
think it most likely theyd still have experienced it to broadly the same degree if theyd known 
in October 2018 that NatWest wouldnt lend. 
NatWest has paid Mr and Mrs W £350 (in two separate amounts) for the shortcomings in its 
service. Taking a step back from the detail and looking at everything in the round, I find that 
to be fair in all the circumstances.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman