DRN-3646326
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy how Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard (Barclaycard) have 
handled his request to recover money following the cancellation of holiday accommodation. 
What happened
In October 2019, Mr F paid £519.43 by bank transfer from his current account as a deposit 
for some holiday accommodation for him and his family. He paid the supplier directly. The 
total cost was £1,726.20, and Mr F paid the balance of £1,206.77 in February 2020 using his 
Barclaycard. The stay was scheduled for April 2020. 
A month or so before Mr F was due to travel, the supplier cancelled the accommodation 
because of the restrictions imposed during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr F wanted a full 
refund, and he was unable to get this from the supplier of the accommodation.
Because of this, Mr F contacted Barclaycard towards the end of June 2020. He completed a 
dispute form explaining the full amount he was claiming for, including the amount paid by 
bank transfer. Barclaycard raised a chargeback for £1,206.77  the amount Mr F had paid 
on his Barclaycard  in early August 2020. Barclaycard applied a temporary credit for this 
amount to Mr Fs credit card account and, at this point, they also told him to contact his 
current account provider and ask them to raise a chargeback for the amount he transferred 
as a deposit in October 2019.
Mr F has told our service that he enquired with Barclaycard from the outset to make sure 
they were claiming back the full amount he had paid, including the bank transfer, as a 
Section 75 (S75) claim. 
The chargeback claim raised by Barclaycard was successful, and in December 2020 the 
temporary credit applied to Mr Fs account was confirmed. Mr F was unhappy with this as 
hed made it clear he wanted to claim for the full amount, and he made a complaint to 
Barclaycard.
Within his complaint submission to Barclaycard, Mr F said that he wanted to make a 
complaint about Barclaycards handling of a payment protection claim. As a result, 
Barclaycard referred the complaint to their payment protection insurance (PPI) team to 
review. The PPI team wrote to Mr F explaining that they couldnt see he had a valid claim, so 
he called Barclaycard to explain the situation and what his claim related to. He brought his 
complaint to our service at this time. 
While the complaint has been with our service, Mr F received his deposit amount of £519.43 
back to his account. This was processed by Barclaycard in March 2021. But Mr F remained 
unhappy with the handling of his request and asked our service to continue looking into it. 
Our investigator reviewed everything and didnt uphold the complaint. He said he didnt think 
the initial chargeback claim had taken too long, as the supplier had initially defended the 
claim and further representations had to be made by Barclaycard. He said, considering the 
situation at the time with the pandemic and how it was an unprecedented time for the 
businesses, the length of time to deal with the chargeback hadnt been excessive. He also 
said he could understand the confusion in relation to the PPI team, as Mr Fs messages to 
Barclaycard mentioned a payment protection claim. Our investigator felt that, from the time 
Mr F spoke to Barclaycard and explained that it wasnt a PPI claim to the time he received 
his deposit amount back in March 2021, Barclaycard hadnt given Mr F poor service or 
caused excessive delays. He didnt recommend Barclaycard do anything further. 
Mr F didnt agree. He said the claim had been delayed as Barclaycard should have raised a 
S75 claim from the outset. He said hed been caused additional time having to call 
Barclaycard and trying to understand what was happening. He said he felt the total time of 
nine months for him to receive all his money back was too long, and he felt some 
compensation should be awarded to him. 
As Mr F didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that Mr F has received back the total amount he paid. What I need to 
decide is whether Barclaycard dealt with his request reasonably when he raised it with them 
in June 2020. In this case I do think Barclaycard could have acted more effectively at some 
points, but I dont think their actions warrant an award for compensation. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr Fs frustrations here and I know he would like to know why Barclaycard 
didnt follow his instructions and process a S75 claim when he notified them that his holiday 
accommodation had been cancelled. 
There are different ways that a bank can assist customers who have had issues with goods 
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from 
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with 
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case thats Visa. In certain circumstances 
the process provides a way for Barclaycard to ask for a payment Mr F made to be refunded. 
Those circumstances can include where services arent supplied. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there is a reasonable prospect of success. 
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time  usually around a 
month  for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank. The process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties 
do not agree for the issues to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration.
Alternatively, or in addition, a bank can go on to consider whether there has been a breach 
of contract (or misrepresentation) under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. S75 says 
that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to 
claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by 
the supplier of goods or services. 
But for S75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price.
It's important to note that neither a chargeback nor S75 are a guarantee that a consumer 
recover their funds. Its not uncommon for a bank to deal with a customer dispute by raising 
a chargeback first before considering whether a valid claim exists under S75. Usually, it 
wont make much difference as to which route a bank follows, so long as the bank acts fairly 
and reasonably in assisting its customer to recover their funds. 
In Mr Fs case Barclaycard initially raised a chargeback claim for the amount he paid on his 
card, which was £1,206.77. As Ive mentioned above, its not uncommon for a bank to deal 
with a customer dispute by raising a chargeback first, so I dont think Barclaycard acted 
unreasonably by doing this. However, I do think they could have acted more promptly and 
reasonably once they were aware the chargeback had been successful.
When Mr F completed his dispute form in June 2020, he explained that he was looking for 
the total amount to be refunded, and he explained that part of this amount had been paid by 
bank transfer as a deposit. So, Im satisfied that Barclaycard were aware there was a need 
for a S75 claim to be raised for the outstanding amount of £519.43 once the chargeback had 
been successful and the credit had been confirmed. Its disappointing to see that Mr F had to 
raise a complaint to try and get the S75 claim raised in December 2020. 
Barclaycard have said that the reason there was a delay from this point is because Mr F had 
mentioned his complaint was about a payment protection policy, and it had been passed to 
Barclaycards PPI team as a result. But, having looked at the message Mr F sent to 
Barclaycard to raise his complaint, I think its clear that it isnt about a PPI policy or claim. He 
does mention a payment protection claim in the first part of his complaint message  but 
further down in the message he also explains in more detail what his claim is about, the 
amount that had been paid on his Barclaycard and the total amount he was expecting to be 
refunded. Im satisfied that, had Barclaycard read his message correctly in conjunction with 
their notes on his account, they wouldnt have passed it onto the PPI team and they would 
have started to look at the S75 claim slightly sooner than they did. 
Having said that, I can see Mr F spoke to Barclaycard in early January 2021 to explain why 
he wasnt making a PPI claim, and Im satisfied that from that point Barclaycard acted as 
would be expected to ensure the S75 claim was considered in good time. Mr F received his 
deposit amount back in March 2021  and, when I consider the unprecedented and unusual 
circumstances facing the businesses because of the pandemic, I dont think this is 
unreasonable. 
I know Mr F is unhappy as he feels a total of nine months to receive all his money back is 
too long. But the only real delay Ive seen caused by Barclaycard is at the point in 
December 2020 when the chargeback was successful and a S75 claim should have been 
raised for the deposit amount. Prior to that, the chargeback was being dealt with and 
Barclaycard were forced to make further representations to the supplier as the chargeback 
was initially defended by them. I expect Barclaycard to do that if they believe there is a 
reasonable chance of success, but that process can take some time. And, whilst Barclaycard 
should have started looking at the S75 claim sooner than they did, Im not persuaded the 
time it took them to deal with that aspect is excessive. It follows that I wont be asking them 
to pay Mr F any compensation in this case. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr F, but Im not asking Barclaycard to do 
anything.My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman