DRN-3614778
The complaint
Ms M complains that Pearson Solicitors and Financial Advisers Ltd (Pearson) failed to 
provide the ongoing service she paid it for regarding her personal pension plan. Shed like a 
refund of the fees paid.
Ms M also feels that due to the lack of annual reviews, she doesnt know if the level of risk in 
the pension plan was right for her. Or if the withdrawals she made were carried out in a tax-
efficient way.
I understand that Ms M first contacted this service about her complaint in early 2020. This 
means the complaint was made in time.
What happened
Ms M needed advice on her pension. So I understand she met with an adviser from Pearson 
in April 2015. She wanted to invest a pension shed received through a Pension Sharing 
Order.
Ms M signed a fee acceptance for an initial fee of 2% of the pension value and for an 
ongoing advice service of 1% of the pension value each year on 16 April 2015. 
Pearson carried out an assessment and advised Ms M to take out a personal pension with a 
provider that Ill refer to as provider A. 
In August 2015 Ms M signed a risk profile report which indicated she had a high to medium 
attitude to risk and a moderate capacity for loss. She also signed an application form for 
provider A, within which she chose the portfolio she wanted her pension monies to be 
invested in. Ms M also completed and signed paperwork indicating her acceptance of the 
initial fee of 2% of the pension funds value. And an ongoing advice service charge of 1% of 
the funds value each year. Ms M selected a retirement age of 65. And the plan started with 
a transfer of £160,300.
Ms M became unhappy with the ongoing advice service she received. So in late 2019, she 
complained to Pearson. She said she hadnt had any annual review meetings and didnt 
receive further advice after the initial pension setup. She was also unhappy that she hadnt 
been informed when her adviser had left Pearson. Ms M didnt feel shed received the 
service shed paid for. And wanted a refund of the ongoing charges shed paid.
Ms M acknowledged that shed taken a few withdrawals from her pension plan over the 
years. But felt that Pearson hadnt at any point taken into account her changed 
circumstances. She said shed moved to a new house, remarried and been registered 
disabled during the time Pearson had been her adviser. And felt these events shouldve 
been considered by Pearson. She also felt that the withdrawal process had been 
questionable. And felt that her tax status shouldve been discussed. She was concerned that 
she mightve withdrawn money unnecessarily.
I understand that Ms M removed Pearson as her adviser in late 2019 or early 2020. Pearson 
said it has received no payment since January 2020. 
Pearson issued its final response to the complaint on 3 January 2020. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said it had regularly invited Ms M to review meetings, but that she hadnt 
taken up its offers, or had cancelled meetings. It said it had prepared reports and valuations 
for the meetings that had been set up but not held. Pearson also listed the meeting dates it 
said it had offered. It also said that Ms M was a client of the business, rather than her 
adviser. Therefore, although her adviser had left the business, it said her investments had 
still been managed. And shed still been invited to meet with an adviser every year since her 
pension was set up.
Pearson also said that Ms M mustve needed the funds shed withdrawn from her pension, 
as shed instructed a series of withdrawals to meet her requirements. It said that it couldve 
provided her with additional advice if shed wanted it on the suitability of those withdrawals. 
But that shed proceeded with them on a non-advised basis. It said that as it hadnt advised 
her on her pension withdrawals, it couldnt know whether shed withdrawn funds 
unnecessarily or if more tax was paid than necessary. 
Pearson said that Ms M couldve cancelled the ongoing adviser charge at any time. And that 
it had informed her of this from the start. It provided details of the work it had carried out on 
Ms Ms behalf. It felt this demonstrated that it had carried out a significant amount of ongoing 
service. And therefore it didnt feel that Ms M was entitled to any refund of fees.
Ms M was unhappy with Pearsons response. So she brought her complaint to this service. 
She didnt agree that it had contacted her every year to complete a review. She 
acknowledged that she had needed to cancel one appointment in December 2015 due to 
illness. But said shed had no contact from them in the following years. She said she was 
absolutely certain that the letters Pearson had said itd got copies of had never been sent. 
And questioned why it hadn't followed up the letters with a phone call. 
Ms M said shed not spoken to the original adviser since starting the pension. She confirmed 
that she had made a number of withdrawals from her pension between 2016 and 2019, 
using Pearson to complete the process. But said that Pearson had never explained to her 
that the withdrawals were "non-advised'. Ms M felt that Pearson shouldve suggested she 
had a review to make sure the withdrawals were the right option for her. She also said that 
Pearson shouldve considered her changed circumstances. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Pearson 
had provided an adequate service. She felt that Pearson had provided reasonable evidence 
that the letters it said it had sent to invite Ms M to annual review meetings had been sent. 
She was also satisfied that although the 2018 review meeting didnt go ahead, it had been 
booked and papers had been prepared for it.
Our investigator also felt that Pearson had facilitated Ms Ms withdrawals on an execution 
only basis. And that it therefore had no responsibility to proactively give Ms M advice on her 
withdrawals when she hadnt asked for it. She didnt consider that Ms M had ever mentioned 
to Pearson that she would like to explore her options and ensure that the withdrawals were 
suitable. So she felt that Pearson had no reason to question the requests. However, she felt 
that if Ms M had told Pearson that her circumstances had changed and that she was unsure 
whether a withdrawal would be recommended, it wouldve been able to offer advice and 
guidance. 
Our investigator also felt that Pearson didnt have a duty to tell Ms M that her adviser had left 
the business. She said this was because it was still able to provide Ms M with the ongoing 
advice it had committed to provide. Ms M didnt agree with our investigator. She said that shed told Pearson from the start that 
she had no knowledge of pensions, and had asked it to take care of her investment. She 
agreed that shed failed to attend the first financial planning meeting. She said this was 
because shed been diagnosed with a chronic medical condition which led to her being 
unable to drive for 14 months. She said shed told Pearson she couldnt make the meeting. 
But it hadnt offered her the option of doing the meeting over the phone or at her home. 
Ms M also said that when she contacted Pearson about taking funds out of her pension, her 
adviser had asked her to contact the office staff. She said shed pointed out that they werent 
qualified to give her financial advice. So she didnt receive any advice about whether the 
withdrawals were the right option for her.
Ms M said that she didnt hear from her named adviser or Pearson between 2016 to 2019. 
And that, given that lack of contact, shed phoned Pearson to ask to speak to her adviser to 
tell him shed decided to stop the ongoing charge being paid. She said she was told that her 
adviser no longer worked for Pearson. Ms M said she asked Pearson who shed been 
paying the fees to, who was looking after her investment, and why shed not been told her 
adviser had left.
Ms M said that as shed not heard from Pearson between 2016 and 2019, she considered 
that the letters Pearson held on its file in respect of her that werent signed or dated had 
been fabricated.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I know my decision will be very disappointing to 
Ms M. But Im satisfied that Pearson provided her with a reasonable ongoing advice service. 
Ill explain why.
I first considered whether Ms M was invited to any review meetings in the period up to 
January 2020  this is the point that Pearson said it stopped receiving payments from Ms M. 
The evidence shows that Pearson invited Ms M to annual review meetings in 2015. An 
appointment had been arranged for 15 December 2015 at midday. But internal notes 
recorded that Ms M had changed her appointment for another two days later. And further 
recorded that this was changed again to 23 December 2015 at midday.
I appreciate that Ms M said she couldnt attend the December 2015 meeting due to her 
chronic medical condition. And I can understand why she felt Pearson couldve offered her 
the option of doing the meeting over the phone or at her home address. But Ive seen 
nothing in the terms of Ms Ms agreement with Pearson that wouldve required it to provide 
her with an alternative type of meeting. Nor have I seen evidence that Ms M told Pearson 
why she couldnt attend the December 2015 meeting. Therefore, it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to say that Pearson shouldve arranged a meeting that better suited Ms M 
at that time. 
Ms M also said that as shed not heard from Pearson between 2016 and 2019, she felt that 
the letters it held on file that werent signed or dated mustve been fabricated.
From what Ive seen, the evidence shows that Ms M was invited by letter to book a review in 2017 and 2019. While I acknowledge that Ms M said she didnt hear from Pearson over this 
period, it has provided copies of the letters it sent in 2017 and 2019. Although these arent 
signed or date stamped, Pearsons internal system screenshots, which it provided to this 
service, showed how and when the letters were sent. 
Ive also seen copies of these letters, and other internal notes recorded by Pearson. These 
showed that on 31 July 2017, Ms Ms named adviser requested that a review be booked for 
Ms M. And that on 8 August 2017, Pearson rang her, but had to leave a voicemail. 
On 10 October 2017 Pearsons notes recorded that it needed to write to Ms M to offer her a 
review. Pearson has shared a copy of the letter it said it sent to Ms M on 10 October 2017 
regarding that review. This stated the following:
Its been almost 12 months since we contacted you regarding your annual review. A formal 
review, at least annually is important in order to take into account any change in your 
circumstances within this time period. With this in mind, a meeting to discuss your financial 
planning would be beneficial. So please contact us to arrange.
And on 30 October 2019 Pearsons notes recorded that it needed to write to Ms M to offer 
her a review. Pearson has also shared a copy of the letter it said it sent to Ms M on 30 
October 2019 regarding that review. 
Im satisfied that these letters were sent to Ms M. Ive seen no evidence that they were 
fabricated. So I consider that Pearson did invite her to review meetings in 2017 and 2019.
Looking at 2018, Pearsons internal notes show that a meeting had been set up between Ms 
M and her named adviser on 20 August 2018 between 2 and 3 pm. Separately, a 14-page 
annual planning report had been produced.
I understand that Ms M cancelled this meeting. But her named adviser had already done the 
preparatory work required for that review. And while Ive seen no evidence that this 
appointment was rescheduled by either Ms M or Pearson, Im satisfied that it was up to Ms 
M to reschedule the meeting as she was the one who had cancelled the original 
appointment.
Overall, I can understand that Ms M is disappointed that she didnt have a review meeting 
with Pearson over the period in question. But Im satisfied that Pearson took reasonable 
steps to arrange the meetings at appropriate times. And therefore I dont consider it did 
anything wrong here.
I next considered whether the ongoing charges were fair for the services provided. Pearson 
has provided this service with its terms and conditions of service. But they dont provide any 
specific detail about what that ongoing service would be. 
As Pearsons terms and conditions didnt specify exactly what its ongoing service would 
cover, Ive also considered the other documentation it provided to Ms M to see how her 
expectations were set. And Ive also thought about what Id expect to be included in an 
ongoing annual service. 
Ms M said that when she first met with her named adviser in October 2015, they agreed that 
he would provide ongoing advice/annual reviews in return for 1% of the value of her pension. 
The evidence shows that Ms M first signed a fee acceptance form on 16 April 2015. This 
stated that the annual fee: for ongoing Service of Financial Plan and Portfolio would be 1%. 
The form also including hourly fee rates for advice outside of the ongoing service agreement. Ms M also noted the 1% ongoing annual fee on the pension application form she completed 
for provider A on 19 August 2015. And also agreed to the 1% annual ongoing fee when she 
signed the financial planning report dated 19 August 2015. The financial planning report 
included the following:
Our service proposition
My company offers a service proposition which governs the type of service and the regularity 
of contact and reviews you will experience. The ongoing servicing of your plans is 
recommended but not compulsory and if taken up can be cancelled at any time. The 
associated costs of our proposition and when it commences are set out in our disclosure 
documentation, already provided and these costs may go up or down in line with the 
fluctuating value of the underlying assets. I confirm that you have elected for the following 
service:
A proactive advice service centred around your immediate issues that will require periodic 
review and re-planning in the future.
So it had been set out that the ongoing service arrangement could be cancelled at any time. 
And that the 1% annual charge would be paid from the pension fund. It also set out periodic 
reviews. I consider that annual reviews are the norm.
Ive already said that Im satisfied that Pearson took reasonable steps to carry out the annual 
reviews that were covered under the ongoing services agreement it had with Ms M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether Pearson provided any other sort of meaningful ongoing service 
to Ms M, on top of its attempts to arrange annual review meetings. I did this so that I could 
decide whether Pearson had done enough to fairly consider it had provided the ongoing 
service Ms M couldve reasonably expected.
Ms M told this service that Pearson assisted with three withdrawals in 2016, two in 2017 and 
one in each of 2018 and 2019.
Pearson said that as well as facilitating the withdrawals, it had also carried out research 
between May and July 2017 on a pension for Ms M at no additional cost. It also said that it 
arranged the conversion of her original plan with provider A to a Flexible Drawdown 
arrangement to allow the withdrawals she wanted.
In order to assess whether Pearson provided a reasonable ongoing service to Ms M, Ive 
considered all the evidence, including the internal notes Pearson has provided.
Pearsons internal notes detail the withdrawals Ms M requested. The first withdrawal request 
was for on 11 January 2016. It was noted that Pearson had to ask provider A what the best 
way to facilitate the withdrawal was. And that this resulted in the pension being put into a 
Flexible Drawdown arrangement. Pearsons notes from this time also show that it asked for 
a review to be arranged with Ms M for mid-March 2016. Its note from 13 January 2016 
stated:
I left client a voicemail asking to call me back to book an appointment. If she doesnt ring 
back today, ring her again.
And further record that on 26 January 2016, [named adviser] met with client. 
The first income withdrawal was accepted and the income release noted on 3 February 
2016. Pearson confirmed this with Ms M. And its notes recorded the remaining actions it 
carried out to complete the task.Ms M requested a second withdrawal on 6 April 2016. Her named adviser is recorded as 
having requested how the withdrawal should be processed. He also asked for further 
pension funds to be transferred into cash to fund a further withdrawal request in October 
2016. Further notes from this time recorded the amount of tax-free cash Ms M had available 
both before and after this withdrawal. And how the withdrawal would need to proceed, 
including the time it would take. The requested payment was made on 4 May 2016.
Pearsons notes recorded that Ms M requested the third withdrawal of 2016 on 31 August 
2016. Her named adviser noted that Ms M wanted to withdraw this as tax-free cash and that 
she needed it for the 20 September 2019. The notes further recorded that the payment was 
processed on 13 September 2020 and that it should reach Ms Ms account in the next few 
days.
The notes also recorded that on 19 October 2016, Ms Ms named adviser asked what her 
remaining available tax-free cash entitlement was with provider A. And requested that Ms M 
be told that figure. The notes further recorded that Pearson obtained the figure and told Ms 
M on 20 October 2016. 
The notes also stated that on 3 November 2016, Ms Ms named adviser asked for her latest 
withdrawal request to be confirmed with her.  Pearson noted that it spoke to Ms M on 3 
November 2016 to confirm her withdrawal requirements. This led to next withdrawal being 
sent to her on 7 November 2016. It appears Ms M asked Pearson to defer the second part of 
her withdrawal request. The notes recorded: She said hold off with TFC until second week 
in December. Ring her to see if shes ready. The notes stated that Ms M called Pearson in 
December to tell it she didnt need the money until January 2017. 
I understand that Ms M requested a further tax-free cash withdrawal on 10 January 2017.  
And that this was sent to her on 1 February 2017. 
Ms Ms second withdrawal request of 2017 was noted on 20 March 2017. But she increased 
the amount she wanted when Pearson called her to confirm. I understand that the payment 
was processed on 13 April 2017.
The internal notes also referenced the research Pearson said it had carried out between 
May and July 2017. The notes recorded that Ms M had called in on 22 May 2017 and had 
dropped off her policy documents for the pension in question. And had said that she wanted 
her named adviser to have a look at it. A task was set up which stated that Ms M was to be 
advised on her pension options. 
Pearson then obtained a letter of authority from Ms M and emailed the pension provider on 
22 May 2017 for further information. The notes from the time also recorded that as Ms M had 
remarried and changed her name, Pearson needed to change her name with provider A and 
with the pension provider of the pension it needed to research. It did this.
Pearsons notes recorded that on 5 June 2017 it received the requested policy information 
from Ms Ms pension provider. In early July 2017, Pearson told Ms M that it couldnt transfer 
the pension it had researched as it was under the minimum amount of £2,500. 
I understand that Ms M asked if she should just encash the pension. Pearsons notes 
recorded that her named adviser was asked to consider this. And to advise Ms M on what 
she should do.
Pearsons internal notes recorded that Ms M had requested a further withdrawal in each of 
2018 and 2019. And that her named adviser had authorised the payments. The withdrawals 
both went ahead. I consider that the notes Ive referenced above evidence that Pearson carried out a 
significant amount of work for Ms M in facilitating her requested withdrawals. And in carrying 
out other ongoing service tasks. I also note that Ms M couldve cancelled the ongoing 
adviser charge at any time. 
Overall, I consider that Pearson provided a reasonable level of ongoing service. I also say 
this because it tried to set up annual reviews, and prepared reports when meeting dates 
were agreed. So I dont uphold this part of the complaint. And I dont consider that Pearson 
should refund the ongoing fees it charged Ms M.   
Ive also considered Ms Ms complaint that she was told to speak to Pearsons office staff 
about her withdrawals, rather than getting the whole process handled by her named adviser. 
She felt that the office staff werent qualified to give her financial advice. And therefore didnt 
receive any advice about whether the withdrawals were right for her. She felt Pearson 
shouldve reviewed and provided advice on the withdrawals before actioning them. 
While I understand Ms Ms point, Ive seen no evidence that she ever asked Pearson  
either her named adviser, or the office staff - for advice on her requested withdrawals. 
Without such a request, Im not persuaded Pearson shouldve taken further steps to find out 
why Ms M wanted to withdraw her funds. 
I say this because Im satisfied that if Ms M had asked Pearson to help her consider whether 
the withdrawals were in her best interests, it wouldve have arranged to review her financial 
circumstances to see if that was the case. Had it done so, I consider it wouldve identified Ms 
Ms current circumstances, which she said had changed significantly over time. I also 
consider that a fully qualified adviser wouldve carried out the required work.
From what Ive seen, Pearson did try to arrange annual reviews. But Ms M didnt attend any, 
or try to set up replacements for those shed missed. 
I acknowledge that Ms M didnt consider that she should be the one trying to set up new 
review meetings. But I consider that if her circumstances had changed, or if she needed 
advice on the suitability of her requested withdrawals, she couldve asked Pearson for help. 
The internal notes evidence that Ms M did speak to her named adviser on a number of 
occasions, so she couldve asked for further advice at any point.  Im satisfied that Pearson 
wouldve been available to assist Ms M if shed asked it. But that it couldnt have known 
about her changed circumstances unless she told it about them. 
Ms M went ahead with all of her requested withdrawals on a non-advised basis. That was 
her choice. I consider that Pearson had no responsibility to proactively advise her on the 
withdrawals as she didnt ask for any assistance. I also agree with Pearson that as it hadnt 
advised Ms M on the pension withdrawals, it couldnt know whether shed withdrawn funds 
unnecessarily or if more tax was paid than necessary. Therefore, I dont uphold this part of 
the complaint. 
Ms M also considers that Pearson shouldve told her that her named financial adviser had 
left the business. She said she asked Pearson who shed been paying the fees to, and who 
was looking after her investment.
Pearson said that Ms M was a client of the business, rather than her adviser. Therefore, 
although her adviser had left the business, it said her investments had still been managed.
I can understand why Ms M feels it was important she had a named contact. But I dont 
consider that the service Pearson had agreed to provide could only be provided by Ms Ms 
named adviser. Im satisfied that as Pearson was still able to provide Ms M with qualified advice, it continued to meet its part of the fee arrangement it held with Ms M. So I dont 
uphold this part of the complaint.
Overall, I dont uphold the complaint. And I dont require Pearson to take any action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman