DRN-1887810
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a decreasing term assurance plan that 
included critical illness cover. He says he was told that his chances of getting the mortgage 
he wanted would be better if he took out the plan. 
What happened
In 2003, Mr S and his then partner arranged a joint repayment mortgage with HSBC over a 
term of 30 years. The mortgage was for £138,000. They were first-time buyers. Mr S also 
took out a decreasing term assurance plan with critical illness cover to match the mortgage.
 
In 2018, Mr S complained about the sale of the plan. He said that he was forced to take it out 
under the false pretence that the mortgage application was more likely to be approved if he 
did.
HSBC responded to Mr Ss complaint in 2019. It apologised for the delay and offered him 
£250 for this. But HSBC said that Mr S hadnt received advice when he took out the product. 
It said it had given him information about the available products for Mr S to make an 
informed choice about them. It said that life cover hadnt been a condition of the mortgage.
But Mr S said that he had received advice and was pressurised into taking out the policy. He 
wasnt aware of it until HSBCs adviser mentioned it. He felt he had no choice other than to 
take it, so his mortgage application would be more likely to be approved. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that he didnt think HSBC had recommended the policy to Mr S but it did need to give 
him clear information about it. The investigator said Mr S didnt have any existing means of 
repaying the mortgage borrowing so he thought he had a need for the cover. The 
investigator said that Mr S had signed a disclaimer to say that it was his own decision to 
proceed with the policy and that he hadnt been influenced by or given advice by HSBC 
about the suitability of it. The investigator thought it was clear that the policy was optional, 
and Mr S would have been able to cancel the policy if he felt it was unaffordable. 
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that he felt he had no option but to 
take out the policy as the adviser had intimated that the probability of his mortgage being 
approved would be severely reduced if he didnt. He said HSBCs adviser had explained in 
detail why the plan was useful, but he refused and showed no interest in it. But he took it out 
as he wanted to safeguard the approval of his mortgage application and didnt feel that he 
had a choice. He was led to believe that any mortgage he received would be conditional on 
having an insurance policy and so cancelling it wasnt an option. 
Mr S said that he signed the document to say that he didnt receive advice under duress. He 
said he had refused the policy twice which should have been sufficient. Mr S said his family 
would have been able to help him repay the mortgage should he have needed it. He said 
this was an unfair sale that created financial hardship for him and his family. Mr S said that 
he was sold mortgage repayment cover at the same time and his complaint about that had 
been upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has said that it didnt provide Mr S with advice about this particular policy, and it was 
Mr Ss decision to go ahead with it. But I appreciate that Mr S feels that he did receive 
advice and was told that the mortgage application was more likely to be approved if he took 
it out.
Ive reviewed all the documentation from the time. In relation to protection instructions, the 
form is ticked to say that Mr S wanted life cover and critical illness on his single life. This 
form also had the option to select that he didnt wish to take out the cover, as he did for 
income protection, which I think indicates that there was the option not to take out the life 
and critical illness cover.
Mr S has signed the declaration to confirm:
It is my/our own decision to proceed with the instructions shown above. I/we have not relied 
on, or been influenced by, any advice or opinion provided by HSBC Bank plc or any of its 
employees about the merits or suitability of them (with the exception of any cover taken for 
building or contents).
Mr S has explained that the mortgage was taken out through a branch that was near to his 
place of work, and that his then partner  who was the joint mortgage holder  didnt attend 
the meetings with him. Hes said this was why the term assurance plan was just in his name.
Ive seen that the illustration for the costs of the term assurance is dated 12 May 2003, and 
the application form for it was dated 3 June 2003  the same day as the declaration Ive 
described. However, the mortgage loan agreement is dated 13 May 2003, and was accepted 
by Mr S and his partner on 20 May 2003. So although I appreciate that Mr S recalls being 
told that his mortgage was more likely to be approved if he started the life and critical illness 
plan; this indicates that hed already received his mortgage offer before his application for 
any life cover was made.
However, Mr S has told us that when he signed the relevant documents, they were undated. 
He has said he was told this was so the direct debit for the policy wasnt set up before the 
mortgage started.
 
HSBC has told us that having such cover wasnt a requirement of Mr S and his then 
partners mortgage, and that having the cover wouldnt have affected the approval of the 
borrowing. And I think this is supported by the mortgage offer being made before the term 
assurance application was submitted. Although I appreciate that Mr S recalls this was 
because of the timing of the payment for the plan, and that he signed for the forms in 
readiness; the mortgage had been offered to him and his then partner without the life cover 
being in place for him.
 
There isnt anything on the mortgage offer itself to suggest that having life cover was 
required. I also understand from the information HSBC has provided that Mr Ss plan lapsed 
in 2007, before the mortgage was redeemed in 2009, which indicates that the mortgage 
continued without the life cover being in place.
I acknowledge that it may have been that HSBC provided Mr S with a range of quotations 
and information about protection at the time he was applying for his mortgage. This is shown through the different quotations Mr S has provided to us which appear to be for level term 
assurance with critical illness cover; a whole-of-life policy as well as the decreasing term 
assurance policy.  However, I dont think this alone suggests that HSBC provided Mr S with 
advice about the particular types of protection and their suitability for him.
 
The policy Mr S took out matched the amount and duration of his mortgage at the time and 
would have provided a lump sum which could be used to repay the borrowing in the event 
Mr S passed away or suffered from a specified critical illness. The level of cover it gave him 
would gradually go down over the term in line with the capital owed on the repayment 
mortgage.
Overall, I dont think HSBC mis-sold this decreasing term assurance plan to Mr S when the 
records from the time suggest that he was given quotations for different options to allow him 
to make an informed choice about them and the offer of a mortgage had been made before 
the term assurance plan had been applied for.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman