DRN-2913502
The complaint
Ms K complains about the decision made by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) to 
block her accounts. Ms K has dementia and is represented by her daughter and son in law, 
Mr and Mrs E who have the power to act for Ms K under a power of attorney. They say 
Nationwides actions caused distress to them all as well as significant inconvenience.
What happened
Ms K holds three accounts with Nationwide. A current account, ISA and savings account. 
In December 2019, Ms K and Mr E went into a Nationwide branch to withdraw £400 from 
one of Ms Ks account. Mr E says they were asked why the withdrawal was needed and this 
distressed Ms K. 
Nationwide explain the branch staff felt there wasnt a sufficient explanation and didnt agree 
to the withdrawal. The branch referred the matter to the Specialist Support Team (SST) in 
Nationwide. As a result, the bank put a block on Ms Ks accounts and reported the matter to 
the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) and the police. The OPG opened an investigation 
into the management of Ms Ks finances and the police visited Mr and Mrs E about this. 
Nationwide say the OPG confirmed Ms K no longer had capacity in March 2020 but that it 
should remove the block on Ms Ks account. The OPG continued its investigation, liaising 
with Mr E for further information, completing this in July 2020. 
While the account was blocked, Mr E raised a complaint, on behalf of Ms K, about the 
service theyd received in branch and the block being in place. In December 2019, 
Nationwide sent a final response letter. It explained a block was applied under the 
safeguarding process and the duty of care it has to its members and their money after Ms K 
was unable to confirm what she intended to use the funds for. Whilst it acknowledged the 
inconvenience of denying the withdrawal request, it wouldnt remove the block and said this 
was to protect Ms Ks money. Instead, it asked her to call the SST directly to discuss this 
further. Through this and further correspondence, Nationwide confirmed that withdrawals 
could still be made by contacting the local branch and specific invoices or bills paid upon it 
seeing evidence of these.
In early September 2020, the branch raised further concerns when Ms K was brought into 
the branch by the attorneys to make a withdrawal. A second block was placed on the 
accounts while the case was again referred to the OPG. In the meantime, withdrawals could 
still be made subject to Mr and Mrs E producing receipts and/or invoices to show that the 
funds were for Ms K. In October 2020, Nationwide says it liaised with the OPG who 
confirmed the account restrictions could be removed and this was actioned on 2 November 
2020.
In early February 2021, concerns were raised again by the branch. As a result, a third block 
was placed on the accounts. Nationwide says this was to prompt a discussion with Mr E and 
this happened on 4th February. During that call, Nationwide say details of the transactions 
were confirmed and Nationwide arrange to issue a card to the attorneys to use so they 
werent using Ms Ks card. Nationwide confirmed the weekly spend for Ms K and a weekly 
maximum amount that Mr and Mrs E would likely need to withdraw in branch for her. 
Nationwide added this to its records to reduce the branch needing to contact the SST. Mr 
and Mrs E were also given the contact details for the SST case handler for any withdrawals 
higher than the agreed amount so this could be discussed before visiting the branch.
In making the complaint to our service, Mr and Mrs E say Nationwides actions have made 
them feel like criminals especially when the bank involved the police. Theyve also had to 
spend a lot of time visiting different Nationwide branches which they say only allowed Ms K 
to withdraw £40 a time for everyday spending. Whilst the account was blocked, they had to 
pay for things for Ms K out of their savings and Mrs Es allowance for looking after Ms K from 
the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) was effectively withheld. To make things right, 
Mr and Mrs E want Nationwide to:
- apologise for blocking the account; 
- compensate them all for the upset and inconvenience, with half going to a charity;
- reimburse the legal fees they incurred when trying to unblock Ms Ks account; and
- educate their staff on how to treat vulnerable customers and attorneys. 
The investigator who looked at things thought Nationwide had acted appropriately. He said it 
was entitled to block accounts and was satisfied theyd done so to protect Ms Ks money. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree with this and the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms K that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
Nationwide, like all UK banks, are strictly regulated and must take certain steps to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They - like their customers - must also follow the terms and 
conditions of the account. Its the banks duty to reasonably ensure accounts are being used 
in the way they should and to protect the money which is held in them. And its in the interest 
of both the bank and its customers that it does this effectively.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwide were acting in line with these obligations 
and the account terms when refusing these requests for withdrawals and placing the blocks 
on her accounts. Ms Ks accounts were first flagged to the SST in December 2019 and 
Nationwide decided to put blocks on the accounts and to make a referral to the OPG and 
police. Additional reviews and blocks were triggered in September 2020 lasting two months 
for a further referral to the OPG and, in February 2021, lasting a matter of days pending a 
discussion with Mr E. The reasons for those have been explained by Nationwide to our 
service and Im satisfied, based on the evidence Ive seen and explanations provided, that 
Nationwides actions were appropriate in the circumstances as that it took those actions with 
the intention of protecting Ms K and the money in her accounts. Im sorry I cant share any 
more specific details around why the blocks were placed on the accounts or referrals made 
in addition to that which has already been explained by the bank to Mr E but to do so could 
compromise the effectiveness of such steps. However, as Ive said above, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs E that Im satisfied Nationwide acted appropriately in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate this situation would have been difficult for Ms K and Mr and Mrs E who were 
looking after her finances. But, to uphold Ms Ks complaint, Id need to be satisfied 
Nationwide acted unfairly or unreasonably when restricting access to Ms Ks accounts and 
contacting the OPG and police or unduly caused delays. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think it did. 
I recognise the overall time this situation took. However, it wouldnt be fair to hold Nationwide 
responsible for that. I say this because Nationwide were concerned about Ms Ks capacity 
and financial affairs, so they put restrictions in place to protect her money. They couldnt be 
satisfied fully until the OPG finished investigations and waited for confirmation from the OPG 
after the first two blocks were put in place before lifting them. And I think that was 
appropriate in this situation. By the third block, in February 2021, I consider that, having 
already made two referrals to the OPG, Nationwide took a pragmatic approach of discussing 
things with Mr E and agreeing a way forward. Hopefully, this will lead to fewer blocks being 
placed on the account in future. However, I also think it is important to be clear - Nationwide 
is able to request evidence for the withdrawals from Ms Ks accounts in this particular 
situation.
At times I think the communication from Nationwide about what was happening does fall 
below what Id expect but its also important to keep in mind that this needs to be balanced 
with the nature of a referral to the OPG and police. Even so, I couldnt safely say this 
delayed matters longer than they shouldve taken or caused additional distress to Ms K 
above and beyond the referral and blocks themselves. Further, throughout the time the 
blocks were in place, Mr and Mrs E had access to withdraw money for Ms K. Whilst I 
appreciate this was subject to providing invoices, bills and receipts, and this might have 
caused some inconvenience, the money in Ms Ks account was still accessible. And I 
havent seen any evidence of invoices, for example, that werent allowed to be paid by the 
bank which might have impacted on Ms K. I can also see from the transactions on Ms Ks 
current account that payments for regular household bills were set up to be taken by direct 
debit and continued to be paid notwithstanding the blocks.
I think its important to mention at this point that any distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr and Mrs E, as Ms Ks representatives, isnt something I can consider in this complaint 
even if I thought the bank had done something wrong. I can only consider the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms K herself. Having found that the three restrictions were 
appropriately placed on her accounts as well as in accordance with the terms of the account, 
this wouldnt be something that Id make an award for. 
In terms of the allowance from the DWP for Mrs E, whilst this may have affected Mrs E 
financially, this wouldve been considered a benefit attributed to Ms K as it was being paid 
into her account. If it was ultimately due to be paid to Mrs E then this is something she 
couldve arranged with the DWP so that it came to her own account directly. Alternatively, it 
couldve been discussed with Nationwide, with evidence, to support the continued 
withdrawal of it from Ms Ks account.
Finally, Ive thought about the costs incurred with a solicitor. As Ive explained above, I dont 
consider that Nationwide did anything wrong when it placed the blocks on the accounts and 
therefore any solicitors costs incurred in trying to have the blocks removed isnt something I 
consider it should pay for.
In conclusion, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs E have been inconvenienced during this 
process, its my view - based on the evidence Ive seen - Nationwide have acted fairly, reasonably and in the best interests of Ms K. So, I cant fairly ask Nationwide to do anything 
to put things right. I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision. But I 
want to assure them both Ive looked at everything on file and, while I havent been able to 
go into a lot of detail, Im satisfied Nationwide acted appropriately and that it took the actions 
it did with the intention of protecting Ms K and the money in her accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman