DRN-3801801
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)s handling agent rectified 
some work that required doing after making a claim on his commercial buildings insurance 
policy. Hes also unhappy with the length of time it took to resolve his concerns.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr Hs property suffered an escape of water and he claimed on his insurance 
policy for the resulting damage. UKI instructed an agent  who I shall refer to as S  to carry 
out the rectification works. 
Mr H was unhappy with the way the claim was handled  in particular with the length of time 
the claim took and the quality of the work. UKI offered Mr H compensation and agreed to put 
the work right. Mr H referred this aspect of his complaint to this service and this complaint 
was resolved.
Mr H has since raised a further complaint about the way UKI resolved the issue. UKI 
accepted it should have handled the matter better and offered a further £200. Mr H didnt 
think this was adequate for the continual delays and way it communicated with him to 
resolve the matter.
Our investigator thought the £200 in compensation was sufficient. Mr H didnt agree so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties are satisfied that the rectification work has now been completed to the required 
standard. So I dont need to comment on this further. The issue for me to decide is whether 
£200 is fair compensation. I think it is.
Ive read and considered everything Mr H has provided and also considered what UKI has 
said. Im satisfied that the work was rectified in a reasonable period of time. But the issue 
outstanding was the length of time it took UKI to send Mr H evidence of the work. Mr H had 
asked that the contractor take photographic evidence of the work once it was completed, 
which I dont think was unreasonable given what had happened before. The contractor did 
so, but he did so on the same day he painted the walls and before theyd dried. Mr H was 
understandably unhappy with this because the paint was still wet, so it wouldnt necessarily 
be a reasonable reflection of what it would look like once dry.
I can see UKI tried to get S to go back to take a video of the work, but was unsuccessful. It 
obtained the video by contacting the tenants directly. But, ultimately, it didnt send proof of 
this to Mr H for around six months. I can see Mr H and UKI spoke a number of times during 
this time and I can understand why he was unhappy. I also understand Mr H was unhappy 
that UKI went directly to the tenants rather than go through the managing agent. UKI 
shouldnt have done this and I can understand why Mr H was unhappy it did so. But Im not 
persuaded Ive seen anything to show hes lost out as a result.
However UKI has apologised for what it did wrong and offered Mr H a further £200 in 
compensation. I acknowledge Mr H doesnt think this is sufficient for what he considers to be 
six months of stagnation. But Im satisfied its fair.
I think it would be helpful to highlight that this service is not the regulator, so its not our role 
to fine and punish a business. Our role is to assess whether a business has acted fairly and, 
if not, whether its taken reasonable steps to put things right. Ultimately UKI did rectify the 
issue swiftly following the resolution of his previous complaint. I acknowledge it took six 
months to send a video of the work, but Im satisfied that £200 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Mr H has suffered. And I dont think UKI needs to pay anything 
more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think U K Insurance Limiteds 
compensation offer of £200 is fair compensation. It should pay this to Mr H directly if it hasnt 
already done so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman