DRN-3749995
The complaint
Mr U complains that Santander UK Plc recorded a late payment on his credit file despite him 
ensuring funds were available to cover his credit card payment.   
What happened
Mr U has a Credit Card account and a Basic Current Account (BCA) with Santander. 
The terms of his credit card account require him to make at least the minimum payment on 
or around the sixth day of each month. Mr U had elected to have the monthly payment paid 
by direct debit from his Santander BCA.
A payment was scheduled to be paid by direct debit on 6 May 2022. Mr U says he received 
an SMS text message from Santander on 6 May 2022 advising that his BCA would exceed 
its limit. It said, we may retry some of your payments so please pay enough money in by 
2pm.
Mr U called Santander around 12:35 pm on 6 May to clarify the amount that was due. 
Shortly after, he says he arranged to make a faster payment from his account with another 
bank, sufficient to cover what was due. He then checked his Santander BCA to confirm the 
money had been received.
Mr U later discovered that Santander had applied a late payment charge to his credit card 
account on 23 May 2022. He didnt think that was right as hed transferred the money to 
cover his direct debit payment, so didnt believe hed missed a payment. He called 
Santander to complain. Santander agreed to refund the late payment charge as he hadnt 
missed any previous payments. 
On 4 June 2022, Mr U called Santander again. He wasnt happy as hed discovered theyd 
reported a late payment on his credit file with the credit reference agencies. He didnt think 
that was right given hed transferred funds to cover the direct debit on the due date. 
Santander acknowledged there was enough money in his account to make the payment and 
sent details of their findings to Santanders Credit Data Team. 
Santander wrote to Mr U on 1 July 2022. They accepted Mr U had transferred funds, but this 
was after his direct debit payment had been requested. Because of that, the payment to his 
credit card account hadnt been competed resulting in a missed payment. Santander werent 
able to remove the missed payment from Mr Us credit file. But they agreed to compensate 
him with a payment of £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr U wasnt happy with Santanders response to his complaint. He thought hed transferred 
enough to cover the direct debit in plenty of time. He though Santander should remove the 
late payment marker from his credit file. He decided to refer his complaint to this service.
Having considered all the evidence and information available, our investigator didnt think 
Santander had made a mistake or needed to do anything more. Mr U didnt agree with our 
investigators findings. He thought Santanders system was set up to take the money once it 
was in his account within the timeframe theyd specified in their SMS text to him. And as hed 
transferred those funds, he thought Santander had made a mistake.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Us complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr U had arrangements in place to ensure his credit card payment was made on the due 
date each month by direct debit. A direct debit is an instruction to a bank authorising an 
organisation to collect payments from a bank account. But only where advance notice has 
been given of the amount and date of collection. Once agreed, the money is deducted 
automatically.
Santander sent Mr U a statement of his credit card account on or around 12 April 2022. It 
said the payment due date was 6 May 2022. And as he had a direct debit instruction in 
place, this meant the amount hed agreed to pay would be claimed from his bank account on 
that day. So, it was important that he had the funds available to cover that payment prior to it 
being claimed.
Because direct debits are processed through an automated process, a bank must decide 
whether they can pay it when its presented. Mr U didnt have enough money in his 
Santander BCA and this type of account doesnt allow overdrafts. So, the direct debit claim 
wasnt paid. 
Santander sent an automated SMS text message to Mr U. It said, We may retry some of 
your payments so please pay enough money in by 2pm. Mr Us interpretation of this was 
that as long as he transferred covering funds into the account by 2pm, the direct debit 
payment would complete. But that wasnt the case here. Once returned, it wasnt possible for 
the direct debit to be reprocessed.
I can understand why Mr U may have interpreted Santanders SMS text message the way he 
did. But I dont think he could safely assume the direct debit would have subsequently been 
paid. I think Santanders message was sufficiently clear this might not happen. Ultimately, 
the only way to ensure a direct debit is paid when its claimed is to make sure funds are 
available the day before any claim. Unfortunately, Mr U didnt do that here, despite his credit 
card statement telling him when the payment was due.
Santander did accept Mr U had transferred covering funds later that day. And to recognise 
that, they paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I believe that was a fair gesture to make. 
But its also fair to say Mr Us direct debit payment to his credit card wasnt completed. While 
I understand Mr Us frustration, I cant reasonably hold Santander responsible for that. The 
funds werent available at the time the direct debit was requested. And this wasnt due to 
anything Santander did.
Santander have a responsibility to report accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. Mr Us direct debit payment wasnt completed because the funds werent available 
at the time it was claimed. And as I cant see he subsequently made the payment to his 
credit card account himself; I cant reasonably say the information reported by Santander 
was inaccurate. 
I realise Mr U will be disappointed, but I havent seen anything that persuades me that 
Santander did anything wrong or made a mistake here. So, I wont be asking them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 Dave Morgan
Ombudsman