DRN-2828392
The complaint
Mrs A has complained about Ulster Bank Ltd. She is unhappy about the advice she received 
to transfer benefits she held in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a private pension.
Mrs A is represented in this complaint.
What happened
Mrs A has complained about Ulster Bank Ltd. She is unhappy about the advice she received 
in 1992 to transfer benefits she held in an occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a private 
pension.
Mrs A took pension advice in 2019 when she wanted to take retirement benefits. It seems 
that she was told that she would probably have been better off if she hadnt transferred out 
of the OPS. She made a complaint.
Ulster Bank didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the transfer advice given in 1992 had 
been reviewed in 1997 as part of the industry-wide pensions review. That review had shown 
there was no loss.
Mrs A didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. 
An investigator considered the complaint but decided that it shouldnt be upheld. The 
investigator explained that in 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities & Investment 
Board, instructed authorised firms to review certain pension business, including pension 
transfers like this one. NatWest had undertaken a review as Ulster Bank was part of the
same group. The review was completed, and it wrote to Mrs A to confirm the outcome. It 
said that she hadnt been financially disadvantaged by the transfer.
The investigator went on to say that the pension review was designed to be a definitive 
process for businesses to confirm whether a customer had suffered a financial loss by 
transferring out of their occupational pension scheme. It wasnt designed to be an ongoing 
process for re-evaluating the situation, it was a one-off means to establish any potential 
loss and to pay any appropriate compensation.
The investigator was satisfied that the suitability of the advice Mrs A received was addressed 
and the regulators guidance was followed. Whilst the assumptions set out by the regulator 
may not have shown a loss, the fact the assumptions may not have been met wasnt a 
reason to re-do the calculations.
Mrs A didnt agree. She said that the advice was wrong, she had been nave and trusted her 
employers advice. She asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. I dont uphold this complaint and Ill try and explain why.
There is very little that I can add to what the investigator has already said. It may be the case 
that Mrs A is worse off than he wouldve been if she had not transferred away from her 
defined benefit OPS, but that alone is not enough to mean that the advice should be 
reconsidered, or the complaint upheld.
There is no question that the advice she was given in 1992 was reviewed as part of the 
industry-wide pensions review. There is nothing to suggest the review itself was invalid or 
that it didnt follow the regulators guidance. A business was only required to carry out the 
review once, based on the assumptions the regulator said must be used at the time, such as 
assumptions about future investment returns. The fact that these assumptions may not have 
been achieved is not grounds for this service to direct that Ulster should redo the calculation. 
Unfortunately, the fact that investment returns havent been as strong as was expected in 
the 1990s and other factors, such as annuity rates, can be a significant cause of further loss 
for people like Mrs A. But as Ive said, the review was intended to be a one-off exercise and 
not something that would be reopened or revisited at a later date.
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry that Mrs A may have lost out 
but I cant reasonably decide that Ulster Bank revisit the review that was completed so many 
years ago.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman