DRN-1588892
 
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way British Gas Services Limited (BGS) have administered her 
HomeCare Three insurance policy.
Mrs B appointed a representative when raising this complaint. For ease of reference, I will 
refer to them both as Mrs B in this decision.
What happened
Mrs B has held an insurance policy administered by BGS for several years. Part of this 
policy entitled Mrs B to an annual boiler service. 
In September 2019, Mrs B booked her annual service for 5 November which was the next 
available appointment. On 4 November, the day before the service was due to take place, 
BGS contacted Mrs B to rearrange it. They rescheduled the service to 27 January 2020, 
which was the next available date.
Mrs B raised a complaint about this. She was unhappy the service was rescheduled at such 
short notice. She was also unhappy at the length of time between to two dates saying it 
wasnt the first time shed had to wait longer than 12 months between services. She didnt 
think it was reasonable to offer an annual service and then fail to complete it within 12 
months. So, she wanted BGS to recognise their failures and ensure the annual service was 
completed annually as shed expect.
BGS didnt uphold the complaint. They thought their terms and conditions of the policy made 
it clear services may take longer than 12 months at a time. They explained Mrs Bs service 
was re-scheduled due to a high volume of emergency repairs that took priority. They also 
explained the length of time between the original service and the rescheduled date was to 
consider the weather at that time and to try and minimise the chance of having to reschedule 
again. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. Mrs B was unhappy with this 
response, so she asked us to investigate it further.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She thought BGSs terms and 
conditions made it reasonably clear that annual services may take longer that 12 months to 
complete. So, she didnt think theyd done anything wrong by completing them more than 12 
months apart. She also thought BGS had acted reasonably when rescheduling Mrs Bs 
service for 27 January 2020 to minimise the chance of having to reschedule further 
appointments due to the time of year.
Mrs B didnt agree. She responded explaining BGS had called her on 26 January 2020 to try 
and reschedule her service due to the next day. She also explained by not servicing the 
boiler, it may have affected the warranty of the boiler and other appliances in the house 
which hadnt be considered. So, she felt BGS had acted unfairly by not completing an annual 
service within 12 months. Our investigator replied to Mrs Bs comments after considering them but explained she still 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs B remained unhappy, so her complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I want to reassure both BGS and 
Mrs B that Ive considered all the comments and evidence available, even if they havent 
been directly referred to within the decision.
It isnt disputed by BGS that some of Mrs Bs annual services have been more than 12 
months part. So, Ive focused on whether I think this means BGS have done anything wrong. 
And in this instance, I dont think it has.
The terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs B entered into say Your annual service may 
be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit. So, I think BGS made it 
reasonably clear that the services may at times exceed the 12-month time period Mrs B 
expected them to be completed within and so, theyve acted within the agreement.
Even though I think BGS acted within the terms of the policy, Ive also considered whether I 
think BGS actions were fair. Ive seen that Mrs B has held the policy with BGS since 2010. 
Within this time, the annual services have been completed outside the 12-month period on 
four occasions. On three of these occasions, the service was completed within 2 months of 
the 12-month date. BGS have confirmed that the boiler remained under warranty during the 
months where the service hadnt been completed, so if anything did go wrong with the boiler 
Mrs B wouldve been able to have any fault repaired. Because of this, I dont think the delays 
on these occasions have impacted Mrs B in a way that Id deem to be unfair.
But Ive seen on the most recent occasion, Mrs Bs service was completed over four months 
after the annual service was due in August 2019. Mrs B originally booked the service in 
September, after the 12-month period had elapsed, for 5 November as this was the earliest 
availability. I understand Mrs B was unhappy that this was the earliest slot. But BGS have 
said this was due to the time of year. Theyve explained as the weather gets colder, it 
increases the demand on their service. Although I can appreciate Mrs Bs stance that BGS 
as a business should factor in the weather to ensure they maintain their service level, I dont 
think BGS would be able to perfectly predict the weather and spikes in demand. So, I dont 
think it would be fair for me to say they acted unfairly when offering Mrs B a slot in 
November.
On 4 November, BGS called Mrs B to reschedule the service appointment due to take place 
the next day. Mrs B was unhappy this happened so close to the appointment and that BGS 
rescheduled for 27 January 2020, almost three months later.
BGS have explained this was due to a cold period of weather meaning they had received a 
large number of emergency breakdowns. So, they had no engineer availability to carry out 
the service. The terms and conditions of the agreement say, In periods of local or national 
high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we prioritise breakdowns and may 
need to rearrange your annual service. 
I can appreciate how frustrating it wouldve been for Mrs B to have to reschedule the day 
before the appointment is due and ideally Mrs B couldve been made aware of this earlier. 
But, as BGS provided a service that can be affected by occurrences outside of their control, 
such as the weather and a rise in breakdowns, I dont think itd be fair for me to say they acted unreasonably by doing this. I think the terms and conditions make reasonably clear 
that breakdowns would be prioritised and had Mrs Bs boiler broken down, shed have been 
able to utilise this service. Fortunately, she didnt need to on this occasion.
Ive also considered whether I think it was fair for BGS to reschedule the appointment for 
almost three months later. BGS have explained they did this considering the weather and 
time of year in order to prevent further rescheduling. I think this is a fair explanation and 
shows BGS recognising the demand on their service and attempting to prevent any further 
inconvenience to Mrs B. I think its important to highlight again that during this time, had Mrs 
Bs boiler broken down, she wouldve been able to utilise her policy to have any repairs 
completed. So, I dont think she was impacted by having to wait longer than usual to have 
the service completed.
But Ive also seen that on 26 January 2020, BGS contacted Mrs B to reschedule the service 
again. But Mrs B wasnt happy with this, so the service went ahead as planned. BGS have 
explained they attempted to reschedule for the same reasons but as this wouldve been the 
second time, they prioritised the service over breakdown call outs they received. 
I understand why Mrs B wouldve been left unhappy with BGS attempting to reschedule 
again the day before the appointment, especially as shed already raised a complaint. 
Ideally, I wouldve liked BGS to have realised this was a second rescheduling before they 
made the call to Mrs B. But, as they took this into consideration and prioritised the service to 
ensure it went ahead, I think this minimised any further impact.
So, although I think the length of time it took to service the boiler was frustrating for Mrs B, I 
think BGS have acted in line with the terms of the policy and Mrs B has received the service 
it provides. I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs B was hoping for, but her boiler has been 
serviced and it remained under warranty should anything have gone wrong during the delay. 
Because of this, I dont think BGS need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about British Gas Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman