DRN-3334375
Complaint
Mrs M has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided her with an unaffordable 
loan.
Background
L2G provided Mrs M with a loan of £2,000.00 in September 2020. This loan had an APR of 
493.5% and a 24-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £7,903.92 was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of around £330.00.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that L2G unfairly provided this 
loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. L2G disagreed with our 
adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs M wouldve been able to do     
so?
2. Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did L2G complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs M would be 
able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
L2G provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of Mrs Ms ability to make the repayments under this 
agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice this
meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs M. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were L2Gs checks reasonable and proportionate?
L2G says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs M prior to 
providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Mrs M declared that she was 
earning around £1,900.00 a month and had expenditure of £847.00 a month. L2Gs checks 
suggested her income was closer to £1,800.00 a month and her expenditure closer to 
£1,300.00 based what it saw on her credit file. This left her with around £500 a month which 
was more than enough to cover the payments to this loan. 
Ive carefully considered what L2G has said and what it said to our adjudicators 
assessment. But the credit check it carried out showed Mrs M had had some recent payment 
problems on some of her accounts even if she wasnt in arrears on them at that actual time. 
This coupled with L2G not being confident in the income and expenditure information Mrs M 
provided, such that it adjusted the figures and its adjustments not capturing all of Mrs Ms 
expenditure (for example, the payments attributed to Mrs Ms revolving credit commitments wont have been enough to see these balances repaid within a reasonable period of time) 
lead me to think that L2G needed to take steps to verify Mrs Ms actual monthly expenditure. 
As I cant see that this L2G did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out before 
providing Mrs M with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to L2G that Mrs M would have 
been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided,
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely
than not that a proportionate check would have told L2G that Mrs M would have been unable 
to sustainably repay this loan.
L2G was required to establish whether Mrs M could make her loan repayments without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the loan payments were 
technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having done so, its clear Mrs Ms income 
was being used to meet her commitments to existing creditors once the payments required 
to repay the balances within a reasonable period of time are factored in. This combined with 
Mrs Ms previous repayment difficulties to existing credit meant that she was always unlikely 
to be able to make the payments she was being asked to commit to without borrowing 
further or suffering significant adverse consequences.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs M would not have been able to make the
repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, in 
these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than 
not have alerted L2G to the fact that Mrs M was in no sort of position to make the payments 
on this loan without suffering significant adverse consequences.
Did L2G act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way. So I 
dont think L2G acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs M in some other way.
Did Mrs M lose out as a result of L2G unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Mrs M paid and is being expected to pay a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place, Im satisfied that she lost out as 
a result of what L2G did wrong.
So I think that L2G needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Mrs M
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint for L2G to put things right by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mrs M paid as a result of being provided with 
her loan;adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded amounts from the date they 
were paid by Mrs M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give    
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited needs 
to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman