DRN-3369441
The complaint
Mrs M (represented by Mr M) complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV) provided poor service when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M was involved in an accident in December 2019 for which liability was disputed. In 
September 2020 LV decided that Mrs M shouldnt be held liable, after taking advice from its 
solicitors. It ensured the records showed she wasnt at fault and offered her an apology, plus 
£100 compensation for delay and poor service. 
Meanwhile, Mrs Ms policy was due to renew in August 2020, but LV wasnt able to offer her 
cover, given the open fault claim at that point. Mr M said Mrs Ms new policy elsewhere cost 
her over £1,500  around twice the premium previously charged by LV. Mr M said LV should 
reimburse her for the extra premium shed paid. He thought she could have avoided paying it 
had LV not delayed the claim unnecessarily for several months.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint. She thought LV should pay Mrs M a 
further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed faced. She noted that 
avoidable delays had meant a prolonged wait for Mrs M in getting a liability decision, and 
that during this period LVs contact with Mrs M and Mr M was poor. But she thought the 
process LV had used to make the decision was appropriate. She didnt think LV should have 
to pay Mrs M the difference in premium. The investigator pointed out that the new insurer 
would have based its premium on numerous factors as well as the fault claim. As Mrs M  
didnt accepted the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.  I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:       
LV initially thought the claim should be settled with liability split 50:50, given that both 
versions of events were plausible and there was no independent evidence. As Mrs M wasnt 
happy, it used an arbitration process in June 2020. The arbitrator also thought liability should 
be split. Mrs M still didnt agree, so LV then instructed its solicitors to consider the issue in 
September 2020. I think the process was a fair one, and in the end, it worked in Mrs Ms 
favour. But I also think its reasonable for Mr M to say that if LV had acted more quickly, he 
and Mrs M wouldnt have had to look for insurance elsewhere. 
LV has confirmed that Mrs Ms new premium would have been £962.85 had she been able 
to renew her policy with it. Mr M doesnt think that sum is correct, as Mrs M had previously 
only paid around £700 for her policy. But LV has provided us with underwriting evidence to 
show how the calculation was done. As the details provided are commercially sensitive, they 
cant be shared with Mrs M, but the figure LV quoted appears to be correct. 
 
LV says the delay of four months from January 2020 to May 2020 was caused by human 
error. I would have expected LV to prioritise the claim after such a long delay. But after the 
arbitration in June 2020, it took until September 2020 for LV to instruct its solicitors. Without 
the two undue delays, I think LV would have made its decision on liability well before August 
2020. Its solicitors took only a week to issue their advice after LV asked for it. I think Mrs M 
is then likely to have stayed with LV,  and she would have avoided the stress of having to 
find suitable insurance elsewhere and the extra cost involved.
   
As Mrs M was left with no option but to find another policy, Mr M searched the market for the 
best suitable quote. He says he wasnt able to find a similar policy for Mrs M (with two fault 
claims on her record) for less than £1,500. When LV amended the claim to non-fault, as far 
as I can see the new insurer returned £365.73 to Mrs M in November 2020, but she was still 
£175.29  out of pocket.
I think its far more likely than not that Mr M did his utmost to find the best value policy for 
Mrs M that was suitable for her needs. At that point he had no way of knowing whether hed 
be refunded for any of that new premium, so I dont think he would have paid any more for 
suitable cover than was necessary.  
In my opinion, but for LVs avoidable delays, Mrs M wouldnt have ended up paying as much 
as she did for cover. So Im minded to conclude that it would be fair and reasonable for LV to 
pay the difference between the new premium Mrs M paid (minus the later refund from her 
new insurer) and the sum LV would have charged her to renew the policy in August 2020, 
plus interest, in addition to £200 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience.   
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr M said LV had lied to us about 
the quote it would have offered Mrs M in August 2020. He pointed out that he got a quote in 
October 2020 on LVs website for £711.48. He had sent us a copy of a quote from LV for 
£607.55 and didnt think Id taken that evidence into account. Mr M thought he should be 
able to see LVs underwriting evidence. In his opinion, were hiding behind it. He also said 
the extra £100 compensation Id proposed wasnt enough, given the total time that was 
wasted by LV and the fact that as Mrs M isnt online, it was more difficult to correspond with 
LV. He also said the rate of interest Id quoted was too low. 
We told LV that I was minded to increase the compensation for Mrs M by a further £100. We 
also asked LV about the quotes Mr M had provided. It said it wasnt able to view them in its 
system, but that Mr M may have got an online discount at the time. It also said the renewal 
would have been on the broker side of its business, whereas the quotes Mr M found were on 
the businesss direct sales side. It said the products were different, so different rates applied. 
It reiterated that its underwriters calculation for what its quote would have been in August 
2020 was £962.85. Later on, it confirmed that the £962.85 would have been the sum 
charged with only one fault claim (and one non-fault claim) on the policy. It also noted that 
Mrs M had bought a policy directly, through LVs website, in August 2021 for £591.54. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms comments about the compensation I proposed and Ive thought again 
about the avoidable delays by LV and the inconvenience it caused. I think it would be 
reasonable for LV to pay Mrs M £300 in total for distress and inconvenience. 
I can assure Mr M that I considered the evidence he provided about the quotes he obtained, 
along with all the other available evidence, including that from LV. Mr M doesnt think the 
information it provided is true. But the tables it has sent us are from its underwriting team 
and show that the renewal sum LV quoted is correct. Im sorry that I cant copy the details to 
Mr M, but we have a well-established agreement with insurers not to pass on commercially 
sensitive details to consumers -  or to any other party. I can only reiterate that Ive seen LVs underwriting evidence, and I have no reason to doubt its accuracy. 
LV has explained that there will be differences between quotes given through its broker arm 
and those obtained directly by consumers - which may have some discounts applied. And 
insurers rates change on a daily basis, for numerous reasons. I understand that Mr M may 
still find it hard to accept that the premium rose so much at renewal, but I think LVs 
explanation goes some way towards explaining why the quotes he obtained directly from it 
were lower. 
Although Mr M wont be happy with my decision, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
LV to settle this complaint by paying Mrs M £300 compensation, plus the difference between 
what it would have charged her at renewal and the price she had to pay for cover elsewhere, 
with interest. I cant increase the rate of interest, as its the set amount this service applies. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mrs M £300 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience
Pay Mrs M £175.29 - the difference between the premium she would have paid LV at 
renewal without the new fault claim on her record (£962.85) and the sum she had to 
pay her new insurer (£1,503.87) minus the refund from the new insurer (£365.73) 
Pay Mrs M interest (to the date of settlement) at the simple yearly rate of 8% - on the 
extra £541.02 Mrs M paid for cover from 7 August 2020 to 11 November 2020 (when 
she received the refund of £365.73)
Pay Mrs M interest (to the date of settlement) at the simple yearly rate of 8% - on the 
remaining extra £175.29 Mrs M paid from 11 November 2020 to 7 August 2021 
If LV thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold tax from the interest, it 
should tell Mrs M how much it has taken off and provide a tax deduction certificate so she 
can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman