DRN-1674923
 
The complaint
Mrs G says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2002 in one of the bank's 
branches. Mrs G recalls she applied by post but her application form and the bank's records 
show it was a branch sale, so I've reviewed it on that basis. The policy was taken out at the 
same time as Mrs G applied for the credit card. It gave her accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Gs complaint, Ill explain why.
Mrs G says she doesnt recall having PPI or saying she wanted it. I can't know what was 
said in the meeting, but Barclays has provided the application form Mrs G signed and this 
shows she indicated that she wanted PPI. The options to select or decline it were set out 
with equal prominence. On balance, I think Barclays made Mrs G aware the PPI was 
optional, and she chose to take it. I can understand she might not recall selecting PPI on the 
form as the sale was so long ago.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs G so it needed to check if it was suitable for her. 
Based on what I've seen of her circumstances at the time I think it was. Mrs G told us she 
wasn't entitled to any sick pay from her employer, just statutory sick pay. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this and for much longer - up to 12 months. She said she was 
entitled to some redundancy pay. But the PPI would have also paid out in addition to this for 
up to 12 months. It would have allowed her to protect any lump sum redundancy payment 
from her employer, giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time. Overall, I 
think the PPI would have been useful for Mrs G if she was sick or lost her job.
I agree its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs G chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted 
this type of cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So, I think it unlikely Mrs G wouldve 
made a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think she 
would still have taken out the policy.But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:
- Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair.
- To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman