DRN-2600601
The complaint
Miss H complains about the level of service received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited after she made a claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2019, Miss H reported an incident with another driver to Advantage online. 
Advantage considered the other driver would most likely be held at fault based on what Miss 
H provided about the incident. Miss H received a response to say an approved repairer 
would be in touch as her car was repairable. 
Miss H was contacted by the approved repairer and said she signed an agreement she 
thought was to progress the claim under the policy  for repairs to start and a hire car to be 
provided. She said this was the only option given to her by Advantage. 
In 2020, Miss H raised a complaint with Advantage. She said the approved repairer was 
pursuing her for costs of £2,941.08 for the hire car. The approved repairer told Advantage 
the other drivers insurer had disputed liability and provided CCTV to show Miss H was at 
fault for the incident. Advantage said the information Miss H provided about the incident was 
misleading. 
Miss H didnt agree shed provided misleading information. She said this was the first claim 
shed made and only took the steps with the approved repairer as Advantage had 
progressed the claim in this way. She said she was unaware the agreement with the 
approved repairer, subsequent repairs and the hire car were separate to the benefits she 
was entitled to under the policy. She also felt the costs of the hire car were unfair and repairs 
were unreasonably delayed, resulting in her requiring the hire car for longer than necessary. 
Advantage said Miss H needed to cover the costs she was being pursued for. They said this 
was because she signed the agreement and therefore accepted the terms of that 
agreement. They also said, had Miss H not provided misleading information, they never 
would have appointed the approved repairer to handle the claim. Rather, they would have 
requested Miss H to pay the policy excess, carried out repairs and provided a courtesy car 
under the policy. 
Miss H argued she wasnt told this was an option available to her. And had she been made 
aware by Advantage she could risk being liable for potential costs if she made a mistake with 
who was at fault, she wouldnt have ever entered into the agreement in the first place. So, 
Miss H brought a complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered the 
complaint. 
He didnt think Advantage provided Miss H with clear enough information about what options 
were available to her, and the potential risk of being liable for costs if she made a mistake 
with who was at fault for the incident. So, he recommended Advantage should take 
responsibility for the costs Miss H was being pursued for and pay her £100 compensation. 
Advantage disagreed. They said the approved repairer was only instructed because of the 
misleading information Miss H provided. They maintained Miss H signed the agreement and 
therefore accepted the terms and conditions of that agreement. As no resolution could be 
agreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H reported the incident online to Advantage. She provided her version of events and 
who she believed was responsible for it based on her recollection. Advantage responded to 
Miss H to say as her car was repairable, their approved repair would be in touch directly to 
arrange next steps. Ive seen Advantages response to Miss H, and Im satisfied this was the 
only option given to her. So, I think its fair to say Miss Hs expectations at this point would 
have most likely been that the claim was being progressed by Advantage under the policy. 
The policy covers Miss H for, amongst other things, repairs to her car and a courtesy car 
whilst repairs are undertaken. For clarity, the policy says:
 About the courtesy car service 
The courtesy car service is only available if you use your Insurers Nominated 
Repairer
The courtesy car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated repairer
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired 
The courtesy car will usually be a group A vehicle, such as a Ford Ka
Miss H said she was contacted by an approved repairer where repairs and a hire car were 
arranged. Ive no reason to doubt Miss H most likely thought this was standard process 
under the policy as this entitled her to repairs and a courtesy car. And this was also the only 
option given to her by Advantage. 
I cant say Advantage made it clear enough to Miss H after she reported the claim that shed 
be entering into a separate agreement with the approved repairer. From what Ive seen, I 
think it would have appeared to Miss H that Advantage had arranged for their nominated 
repairer to arrange the next steps. I dont think on balance  had Miss H been given clear 
information about what her policy entitled her to, or the potential risk of being liable for costs 
if she made a mistake with who was at fault, she would have been involved with the 
approved repairer at all. 
Advantage argued the approved repairer only became involved due to the misleading 
information Miss H provided about the circumstances of the incident. They said they 
considered the other driver would be held at fault because of the information Miss H gave. 
And it wasnt until the other drivers insurer disputed liability, Advantage felt Miss H provided 
misleading information about whatd happened. They also said Miss H later signed the 
agreement and therefore accepted the terms and conditions of that agreement. 
Ive carefully considered Advantages argument. But Id still expect them to provide Miss H 
with clear enough information about the role the approved repairer would undertake and the 
other options available to her in this case. And its because of the lack of clear information 
given to Miss H, I also think its fair for Advantage to take responsibility for the costs Miss H 
is now being pursued for under the agreement with the approved repairer. Returning to Advantages point about Miss H not thinking she was at fault for the incident, its 
important to note that this will just have been Miss Hs opinion. I find it unlikely, as with most 
insurance claims, that Advantage would base their decision on liability solely on their 
policyholders recollection  without carrying out an investigation. Its later come to light here 
through CCTV footage that perhaps Miss H was at fault for the incident. That aside, Ive 
found it more likely than not she wouldnt have entered into the agreement with the approved 
repairer had she been made aware of what her policy entitled her to. And the potential risk of 
being liable for costs in case shed made a mistake. 
Putting things right
For the reasons given above, I dont think Advantage provided Miss H with clear enough 
information. And so, its fair and reasonable for Advantage to take responsibility for the 
amount Miss H is being pursued for. I understand this amount is £2,941.08 which Advantage 
will need to arrange to be paid, not Miss H. 
Ive also given thought to the overall impact this had on Miss H. And I accept it would have 
been very worrying and distressing to find she was liable for these costs after liability was 
found in favour of the other driver, after assuming  and fairly so  this would be covered 
under the policy. So, Advantage should also pay Miss H £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to cover the costs (as outlined under 
the heading Putting things right) Miss H is being pursued for under the agreement with the 
approved repairer. And pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman