DRN-2690569
The complaint
Mr B complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus unfairly 
registered a default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B says he opened the Cashplus account online whilst suffering from poor health and in 
financial difficulties. He says he didnt use the account but found out some time later that 
Cashplus had registered a default on his credit file without telling him. Mr B says he was 
unaware there was a monthly fee of £5.95 and says he didnt receive any notice of the 
default. He would like the default removed and compensation for what took place and 
questions why a default was registered for about £65.
Cashplus says Mr B applied for the account and would have agreed to the terms and 
conditions which say a monthly fee was due. It says it sent Mr B a default letter and sent him 
e-mails about his account and so didnt make a mistake by registering the default when 
required payments were not made. It also says the default amount was £65 and Mr B made 
one payment.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and thought the fee he paid was a one-off fee. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Mr B would have agreed to the account 
terms and conditions which made clear a monthly fee was due. The investigator looked at 
Cashpluss records and thought a number of e-mails had been sent to Mr B about the 
account including a default notice in February 2018 and a default letter dated 28 March 
2018.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and in summary says he was told the default notice was sent 
in February 2018 and also says he was told the amount was £11.90. He says he has now 
found a letter sent to him by Cashplus on 29 March 2018 which he received on 25 April 
2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Mr B applied for the Cashplus account and in doing so would have agreed 
to the account terms and conditions. Those terms and conditions make clear that a monthly 
fee was payable, and I would have expected Mr B to have read them before agreeing to 
open the account. So, it follows that I dont think Cashplus made a mistake or acted unfairly 
by closing the account and registering a default on Mr Bs credit file when he breached the 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
I appreciate Mr B says he was unaware of the fee, but I can also see that he made one of 
the payments which I think suggests on balance he was aware a fee was due. And I think it 
likely Cashplus sent him some information which led to him making that payment. In any 
event I cant fairly hold Cashplus responsible for Mr B not being aware of the fee as I think 
details of it are clearly contained in the terms and conditions.
I have looked carefully at Cashpluss records and Im satisfied it sent Mr B a number of e-
mails about his account and the missing payments. I cant fairly hold Cashplus responsible 
for Mr B being unaware of them if they were received, as he says, into his junk folder and 
deleted. I can also see that Cashpluss records say it sent Mr B a written default notice on 28 
March 2018. Mr B has told us that he received that letter, which he says is dated 29 March 
2018, on 25 April 2018. He hasnt told us why he didnt respond to it or repay the balance 
before the default was registered on 30 April 2018. But Im satisfied the default notice was 
sent and that Cashplus was reasonably entitled to conclude at that stage its relationship with 
Mr B had broken down.
Im satisfied that Cashplus was fairly entitled to register the default on Mr Bs credit file and I 
dont think it matters what the amount was. I accept Cashplus told Mr B the amount was 
£11.90 and not £65 but I dont think that has had any impact on what took place.
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr B owed Cashplus the money and that it wasnt repaid. I find it 
was Mr Bs responsibility to pay it as he took out the account and agreed to its terms and 
conditions. I cant fairly order Cashplus to remove the default or pay Mr B the compensation 
he would like. I also make clear to Mr B that I have not seen any evidence of a mistake in the 
sending dates of the default notices. I think it likely an e-mail was sent to him in February 
2018 about the default and that was followed by a letter at the end of March 2018 which Mr 
B appears to now say he received.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman