DRN-1588445
The complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr H took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgage in a branch of HSBC in 
2005.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know the PPI had been applied to his mortgage account, meaning it was 
added without his knowledge or consent. 
HSBC has provided copies of some of the paperwork from the sale. Theres a copy of the 
financial review that took place at the time Mr H was arranging the mortgage. I can see that 
various forms of insurance were discussed and that the adviser made a number of 
recommendations. I can also see that Mr H turned down some of the recommendations, 
such as critical illness cover. The adviser had recorded that Mr H had decided he only 
wished to protect his mortgage commitments at that stage. 
HSBC wrote to Mr H on the same day as this meeting (31 March 2005) to confirm the 
recommendations that had been made. It details the PPI as providing a monthly benefit to 
help cover the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months in the event of accident, sickness 
or unemployment.
The Mortgage Offer dated 15 April 2005 has a heading called Optional Insurance and 
details the PPI as providing a benefit of £600 per month for a cost of £35.64 per month.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Hs recollection of 
events has faded. Looking at the available evidence, I think that Mr H was given a choice 
about taking out the PPI. It seems to me that he decided to buy it, knowing he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
HSBC advised Mr H to buy the policy. Therefore, in recommending the PPI to him, it needed 
to ensure that it met Mr Hs needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, 
the policy was suitable for him.The Financial Planning Review shows that Mr H would have received only 15 days sick pay 
from his employer. So I think Mr H would have quickly found it difficult to meet his financial 
commitments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness. Mr H has told us that he 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. I can see from the Financial 
Review that he had £2,000 in savings at the time but this seems to have been partly 
earmarked to pay his legal fees. Overall I consider that Mr H had a need for the policy and 
could have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. As such, I consider it 
was reasonable of HSBC to recommend that he buy the policy.
The Mortgage Offer, which Mr H signed prior to the mortgage and policy going live, detailed 
the cost of the policy. So I think Mr H would have known what hed be paying for the PPI.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he is no worse off as a 
result of anything HSBC may have done wrong, so there is nothing that HSBC needs to do 
to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman