DRN-2774337
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are complaining that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly said it wont 
meet a claim for storm damage.  
What happened
In February 2020 Mr and Mrs Ls home was damaged by a named storm. An upstairs flat 
roof was largely ripped from its fixings, and as it fell the kitchen roof  a single storey 
extension with a tiled pitched roof was damaged. There was significant internal damage to 
the building and the electrical system too.
Mr and Mrs L approached AXA about this, and AXA agreed to consider their claim. It 
appointed a contractor (B) to look at the claim. B spoke to Mr and Mrs L, and when they said 
their roof had been installed about 13 years previously and not inspected since then, it said 
the claim wouldnt be met. It said it could do that as Mr and Mrs Ls policy excluded damage 
to flat roofs if they hadnt been inspected and maintained by a recognised builder.
Mr and Mrs L say they had already found a contractor to do the repairs, as requested by 
AXA. They say when the claim was declined they were left finding money they didnt have, 
and had to scale back on the repairs. Mr L stayed at the property but Mrs L and the children 
had to move out to stay with relatives as the property was unsafe.
Mr and Mrs L complained to AXA about the way it had handled the claim, and pointed out 
that when they bought the policy theyd been asked how much of their property had a flat 
roof  but no-body mentioned the need for maintenance. And they also said when 
researching the policy application process online, that if theyd said more than about 34% of 
the property was flat roofed theyd have been warned about the need for regular, recorded 
maintenance.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the maintenance 
requirement was an onerous term, and that AXA should have brought it to Mr and Mrs Ls 
attention during the sale process. He thought the claim should be met by re-imbursing Mr 
and Mrs Ls expenditure and adding some interest to compensate them for having to use 
their own money. And he thought AXA should pay £1,200 compensation to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused.
AXA doesnt agree: it says the maintenance requirement is a general exclusion that applies 
to all its customers, so it need not be shown, for an example, as an endorsement. It says Mr 
and Mrs L should have read the policy to make sure they knew their obligations, and it need 
not meet the claim. Finally it thinks £1,200 is too much compensation given the 
circumstances.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
AXA knows that this service considers it fair to ask an insurer to highlight onerous terms in 
the terms and conditions contained in a policy. And we think such terms should be brought 
to a customers attention during the sale of the policy.
I agree with our investigator that this is an onerous term. Thats because it requires Mr and 
Mrs L to something specific  and furthermore to be able to prove theyve done it. In this 
case thats likely to involve a cost, as maintenance and inspection had to be done by a 
registered builder. 
The requirement isnt particularly highlighted  its included in a list of things not covered on 
page 11 of the policy. Its included amongst a list of other things that arent covered  but 
none of these appear to place a specific, time related responsibility on Mr and Mrs L. 
Ive also listened to the call when Mrs L rang to check shed filled in an online application 
properly. The staff member went through all the main points of the application, and the 
percentage of flat roof was mentioned. Once Mrs L said it was less than a third of the overall 
roof there was no further discussion on this point. That would have been, as our investigator 
suggested, an ideal time to mention the inspection/maintenance term.
I dont think the condition was sufficiently brought to Mr and Mrs Ls attention either in the 
policy itself or the phone call Mrs L had with AXA when she set the policy up.
That is a sufficient reason for me to uphold this claim. Id also remind AXA that it needs to do 
more than simply say an exclusion applies before it can fairly say it wont meet a claim. It 
must also show that, if the condition hasnt been met (here an inspection/maintenance by a 
registered builder) AXA was prejudiced by that failure. From what I can see, B didnt actually 
inspect the damage before saying the claim wouldnt be met. In those circumstances I cant 
see how AXA could fairly conclude it was negatively affected by Mr and Mrs Ls failure to 
meet the condition in the policy. Thats especially so when it knew a major storm had 
affected many properties. Mr and Mrs L sent pictures of the damage and its the sort that can 
happen to even a recently maintained roof in these circumstances. 
It follows that Im going to ask AXA to meet this claim. 
AXA thinks the compensation recommended by our investigator is too high. I dont agree 
with that. AXAs actions meant that Mr L was left in a property with potentially dangerous 
electrical damage, and with a leaking roof. Ive heard about how he had to place buckets 
under drips to try to prevent further damage, and how, because they had to find money 
quickly, they couldnt do all the remedial work at once. Mrs L and the children had to stay 
with relatives, with all the upheaval that causes. If AXA had dealt with the claim properly it 
would probably have been paying for alternate accommodation or at least a disturbance 
allowance. Mr and Mrs L also told us about how upsetting the whole situation was when they 
found AXA wouldnt meet the claim, and I can understand that must have been difficult for 
them.
Taking everything into account I think £1,200 is a fair amount of compensation.   
Putting things right
Mr and Mrs L have, understandably, had the work done, so AXA will need to meet the claim 
by reimbursing them their costs. If Mr and Mrs L have receipts they can send these to AXA. 
If, as I understand might be possible, they no longer have receipts for some of the work, then 
AXA should agree with Mr and Mrs L a reasonable amount based on the sums normally paid 
by consumers. In other words, AXA cannot apply to the settlement the discounts it would 
normally get if it commissioned the work itself.
AXAs actions have also meant Mr and Mrs L have been out of pocket, so it should add 
simple interest* at 8% a year from the time Mr and Mrs L paid for the work until they are      
reimbursed.*HMRC requires that AXA deducts tax from interest like this before paying Mr and Mrs L. 
AXA must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate of tax deducted if they ask for one, as they may be 
able to claim this back.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to meet this 
claim and pay compensation as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman