DRN-1388633
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
The PPI helped protect Mr Ws monthly repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. As 
Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator, the case was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
From a copy of the postal credit card application form Mr W signed, I can see Capital 
One made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take 
it out  although I can understand if he doesnt remember that now after all this time.
I dont believe Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it didnt have to check 
if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr W got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover  so 
it would have been useful for him to have if something went wrong. And, while he 
says he had family he could have relied on, that help wasnt guaranteed, unlike the 
PPI benefits. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for him. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
 
Overall, I dont believe Mr Ws lost out because of how Capital One sold him the PPI.
Ive thought about everything Mr Ws said, including that the PPI including a waiting period of 
30 days before benefits would be paid. He says he had no means of keeping going during 
that time, and so the PPI wasnt of use to him. However, I note he said he was entitled to 
statutory sick pay (in addition to help from family). While that wouldnt have been a 
significant amount, it might have been enough to see him through until the waiting period 
was over and the benefits became payable. Which means this doesnt change my decision. My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman