DRN-3468974
The complaint
Miss W complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to her 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable. 
What happened
Miss W took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentTotal 
amount 
repayable Loan status
6 July 
2018£2,000 24 months £187.86 £4,508.64 outstanding 
When Miss W complained to Everyday Loans it didnt uphold her complaint. So Miss W 
brought her complaint to this Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Everyday Loans shouldnt 
have provided the loan. Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld 
and set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things right. 
Everyday Loans disagreed with our adjudicators view. It  mainly said that our adjudicator 
had double counted one of Miss Ws financial commitments and disputed the proportion of 
income that she would need to spend in order to service her credit commitments overall. It 
also said that its affordability assessment showed that Miss W would have ample disposable 
income and so it didnt agree that the loan wasnt affordable.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
Everyday Loans asked Miss W about her income and expenses  including what she spent 
on her housing costs and her credit commitments. It also did its own credit check to 
understand Miss Ws credit history. Everyday Loans verified that Miss Ws minimum monthly 
income was around £1,209. It also took into account nationally available statistics when 
thinking about Miss Ws likely spending and based on this, Everyday Loans said Miss W 
shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan. It worked out that after 
using this loan for the planned debt consolidation it had discussed with her, Miss W should 
still have almost £350 spare cash each month. 
Like our adjudicator I think those checks were broadly proportionate. But despite recording 
information that appeared to show that Miss W had enough spare cash each month to cover 
the loan monthly repayments, I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that it couldnt rely 
on this information. Thats because what Miss W had declared was significantly at odds with 
what Everyday Loans saw in the information it had gathered during the loan application 
process. 
I say this because Everyday Loans could see from its credit checks that servicing her 
existing credit commitments took up an unsustainably large portion of Miss Ws take home 
pay  almost a third. I think this suggested she was already over-reliant on expensive credit 
and struggling to manage her money problems. I think that concern was borne out by other 
information Everyday Loans could see  its credit checks revealed that she had defaulted on 
one of her accounts just a couple of months earlier. And bank statements it looked at during 
the loan application process showed that Miss W was struggling to maintain her account in 
credit and incurring unarranged overdraft fees  despite the evidence Everyday Loans saw 
of her reliance on other credit, including a further loan from another high cost provider shortly 
before she applied for this loan, as well as payments into her account by third parties. 
I think our adjudicator was right to say that all the indications were that Miss W wasnt 
managing her money well and she was already struggling financially. I believe it ought to 
have been apparent to Everyday Loans that Miss W probably didnt have the amount of 
disposable income that it thought and the signs were that her finances were, in reality, under 
significant stress and her debt was already unmanageable. I dont think Everyday Loans was 
reasonably able to be satisfied in these circumstances that Miss W would be able to make its 
loan repayments in a sustainable way. 
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was intended for debt 
consolidation. But it paid the loan directly to Miss W and didnt have control over how she 
used the money  so there was always a risk that this loan would add to her overall 
indebtedness. And I think the scale of Miss Ws overall debt compared to the smaller value 
of the loan, bearing in mind her overdraft would effectively swallow up the entire loan 
amount, makes me think that she would remain in serious financial trouble regardless. I dont 
think Everyday Loans was able to safely say this loan would improve her position sufficiently 
to achieve a significant and sustainable improvement in her financial situation overall. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken carefully into account everything Everyday Loans has 
said, including its response to our adjudicators view  but this doesnt change the outcome. 
I think Miss W would likely still need to pay a disproportionate amount of income towards 
debt servicing costs and Everyday Loans shouldve recognised this wasnt a sustainable 
position for her to be in. To sum up, I cant reasonably say that Everyday Loans made a fair lending decision 
based on the information in front of it. I dont think Everyday Loans was able to safely 
conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable for Miss W. And so it shouldnt 
have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss W to repay the capital amount that she borrowed 
because she had the benefit of the loan - but she shouldnt repay more than this. 
Everyday Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Miss W received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Miss W made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Miss W having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Miss W bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically if she still needs further time to pay what she 
owes.
Whilst its fair that Miss Ws credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ws 
credit file regarding the loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted 
if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ws complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday 
Loans to take the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman