DRN-4308041
The complaint
Ms B complains that Close Asset Management Limited (CAML) provided poor service and 
didnt provide the pension advice she requested.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so I dont think it is 
necessary to set it out in detail.
CAML had agreed that the service it had provided hadnt always been sufficient and it made 
an offer to put things right. Ms Bs complaint was made jointly with a Mr M with whom much 
of the correspondence was directed to. However, his complaint has been considered 
separately and this decision focuses on the issues that affected Ms B.
CAML didnt agree that it was responsible for Ms B not receiving the advice she requested 
across all the years in question. It said on all years but one it made reasonable efforts to 
arrange a meeting to discuss Mr Ms and Ms Bs financial matters. However, it agreed in 
2019 it failed to offer a meeting and this potentially couldve meant that Mr M and Ms B lost 
out on tax planning efficiencies. So it offered to conduct a retrospective review but would 
need Mr M and Ms Bs involvement.
It also offered to suspend all fees from the start of their investigation in 2021 until it had been 
completed. The fees for Ms Bs ISA plans were stopped, saving around £730, and this 
doesnt account for additional growth. CAML also offered to refund the fees from that time for 
Ms Bs SIPP which came to approximately £330, which it will repay to the SIPP. It also 
recognised that it was slow to cancel life policy premiums which meant extra contributions 
were paid and so it has offered to refund these plus 8% simple.
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint but he felt the compensation already offered 
by CAML was sufficient. He agreed that CAML hadnt always provided a good service but 
that the main barrier to Ms B receiving the advice she wanted was a breakdown in 
communication on both sides. Whilst CAML on occasions didnt respond promptly or without 
being chased, the same could be said for its efforts to arrange meetings to discuss Mr Ms 
and Ms Bs financial matters. And to give advice on Ms Bs it required information that it had 
requested that Ms B didnt provide. He concluded that the breakdown in communication was 
due to actions on both sides but CAML being the professional party needed to put things 
right. However, he felt the fact that it had offered to refund fees in excess of £1,000 was 
sufficient in the circumstances.
Ms B didnt agree. She felt CAMLs professionalism in dealing with her requests for pension 
advice was well below expected standards and had likely led to a shortfall in her investment 
returns. She noted that during the complaints process its records were shown to be out of 
date and that it mainly corresponded with Mr M and not her even when discussing her 
pension. Ms B felt that her and Mr Ms requests for advice far outweighed CAMLs attempts 
to solve matters. Ms B provided examples of instances where she or Mr M had requested 
information/advice in 2018/2019 about Ms Bs pension where it either didnt respond or didnt 
respond in detail.
Our investigator responded to say that hed already taken into account the evidence that Ms 
B had provided. He explained that he agreed CAML hadnt provided a good service around 
this period but it had made an offer that fairly compensated Ms B in his view. And CAML had 
requested information on more than one occasion about Ms Bs pensions arrangements and 
documentation that it required before it could give advice - which Ms B hadnt provided. He 
maintained that a breakdown in communication on both sides was the reason Ms B didnt 
receive substantive pension advice. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ms B argues that CAML are responsible for her not receiving the advice she requested. I 
agree that CAML particularly around the period of 2018, 2019 were not particularly helpful or 
proactive when it came to Ms Bs pension arrangements. But Mr M, who most of the 
correspondence was with, appeared to require a service where he emailed in questions and 
advice would be provided on that basis with an email in return. But CAML couldnt give 
substantive advice without sufficient information (it requested documentation that wasnt 
received) and I think it was reasonable of their advisers to try to set up meetings before 
attempting to provide substantive advice.
Across the years that formed part of Mr M and Ms Bs complaint, CAML requested meetings 
on a number of occasions and commonly Mr M either wanted to defer them or didnt 
respond. If CAML failed to carry out a meeting and a suitably detailed conversation prior to 
giving advice, that advice would be non-compliant and quite possibly unsuitable. The email 
back and forth and then requests for a meeting that go nowhere was a pattern of the 
relationship between Mr M/Ms B and CAML. As the investigator concluded, and I agree, a 
breakdown in communication between both parties meant that Ms B didnt receive the 
pension advice she requested. Whilst, CAML did make reasonable attempts to arrange 
meetings every year, bar 2019, (its agreement with Mr M and Ms B was that it would provide 
annual reviews), its customer service on occasions was poor. And it wasnt proactive in 
helping to get Ms Bs documentation into a place where it could provide her with pensions 
advice  which she clearly wished to have. Ive set out the events that led me to this 
conclusion below.
The crux of Ms Bs complaint regarding her pension is the events from 2018 onwards. Mainly 
through correspondence from Mr M, Ms B requested advice with regard to her pension as 
she had a new employer. Initially the request in March 2018 from Mr M, said have to rethink 
pensions advice for [Ms B] next year. CAML asked Ms B to send them copies of her last 
four P60s, the evidence shows Ms B did send one of her P60s in and made reference to 
sending the others to CAML later. But it doesnt seem this occurred. 
Further, when Mr M contacted CAML about moving forward with Ms Bs pension planning, 
CAML said it would require all the documentation about her new scheme before being able 
to give advice. It attached a letter of authority that needed to be signed before it could 
request this information. Again, it doesnt appear Ms B or Mr M ever replied to this. Ms Bs 
said she didnt get this email, it was addressed to Mr M as he had initially emailed CAML 
about Ms Bs pension. I dont think it was unreasonable of CAML to expect him to pass this 
onto Ms B, given he had emailed it about her pension. Although I do think it wouldve been 
helpful to cc in Ms B or forward her a copy. In the meantime, CAML had provided information 
about how Ms B could make per pension contribution for this year and how much she could pay.
It was then in March 2019 that Ms Bs pension was brought up again. Mr M contacted CAML 
asking whether it had all the necessary information to advise on Ms Bs pension, but it did 
not respond. And then Ms B emailed CAML on 5 April 2019 given its lack of reply. Following 
this CAML told Mr M and Ms B that its adviser wasnt around and instead its telephone 
advice service would call to arrange a meeting  its notes showed it called three times but 
received no response. 
Then in 2020, CAML tried to arrange a meeting but Mr M didnt respond and then when 
chased (with Ms B in the email chain) he responded but was non-committal. There was other 
correspondence between Mr M and CAML and between Ms B and CAML in relation to 
separate matters. Then in 2021 Mr M emailed CAML about Ms Bs pension contribution and 
the adviser gave some general directions, which Mr M said was of no use. And Mr M asked 
for the bank account to make a pension contribution without advice. And then the complaint 
was made.
So as Ive said, I think CAML shouldve been proactive in this period, it couldve chased Ms 
B for the information that was outstanding. It shouldve been clear that it couldnt give advice 
to Ms B until all this information had been received. And Mr M and Ms B shouldnt have had 
to chase it for a response. The service it provided was substandard, but I have to take into 
account it couldnt have given advice without the information it requested. And between Mr 
M and Ms B they failed to provide this information  and didnt respond positively for its 
requests for meetings to discuss matters. So, there was fault on both sides  and a 
breakdown in communication. Ive thought about what CAML could do to put things right and 
whether the offer it has already made is fair in the circumstances.
Had CAML not already made an offer, I would be considering an award for the trouble and 
upset its poor service has caused Ms B. This would be for the lack of response to certain 
emails and for the lack of clarity in regard to what was required for it to give advice to Ms B. 
Its fair to say its communication fell well short of what is expected of a professional advisory 
service. However, I also have to take into account the fact that Ms B and Mr M didnt provide 
the required information and their collaboration which was required for advice to take place 
wasnt forthcoming. In total CAML has offered to refund fees Ms B otherwise wouldve paid 
in excess of £1,000  this is some way above what I wouldve recommended in terms of a 
payment for the trouble and upset its failures have caused Ms B. Had no offer being made 
prior to my decision, I wouldnt have required it to refund the fees that it did. So, I dont think 
any further compensation is required with regards to the poor service provided here. 
With regards to whether Ms B has lost out financially due to CAMLs failure to provide advice 
in this time, its not possible to say based on the information received and Ms B hasnt made 
any specific point about how she may have lost out. However, as CAML didnt have the 
required information to give advice, I dont think I can fairly consider it responsible for any 
loss in any event. That said, CAML has also offered to give a retrospective review with 
regards to the lack an annual review in 2019 (where it didnt respond to Mr Ms email). I think 
this is a fair offer in the circumstances, its not possible to say whether or not or to what 
extent Ms B lost out due to this meeting not taking place  without conducting this exercise. 
And further, given the history and what happened after, I am not convinced Mr M and Ms B 
wouldve taken up this offer of a meeting in 2019 in any event. So, I dont think CAML needs 
to do anymore here.
A side issue was that CAML was also slow to cancel payments towards Ms Bs policies after 
Mr Ms instruction which caused extra contributions to be paid, and so it will reimburse these 
plus 8%. I think this offer is fair and reasonable and puts matters right here. Ms B was also 
unhappy that CAML referred to her as Mrs, whilst I can understand this must have been frustrating, I dont think any further compensation on top of what has already been offered is 
required.
In conclusion, CAML has already offered fair compensation for the poor service it gave Ms B 
regarding her pension arrangements. It appears that some of this compensation offered has 
already been received (through the cessation of fees) but some is still outstanding.
My final decision
Close Asset Management Limited has already made a fair and reasonable offer. If Ms B 
chooses to accept this offer, Close Asset Management Limited needs to carry out the 
required steps to make the payments it offered as part of its settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman