DRN-3802539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted 
unfairly by continuing to apply charges to their account when they were in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S complained to NatWest that the charges applied to their overdraft were unfair 
when they were struggling financially. 
NatWest said all charges were applied to Mr and Mrs Ss account correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Mr and Mrs S were dis-satisfied with this and brought their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that NatWest acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft fees from December 2016 as Mr and Mrs S hadnt seen 
or maintained a credit balance for an extended period of time. NatWest should have realised 
that Mr and Mrs S werent using their overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued 
offering it on the same terms.
Our adjudicator thought NatWest should put things right by:
Re-working Mr and Mrs Ss current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and 
charges applied to it from December 2016 onwards are removed. 
AND
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mr and Mrs S, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then NatWest should 
remove any adverse information from Mr and Mrs Ss credit file. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
NatWest agreed to settle Mr and Mrs Ss complaint in-line with our adjudicators 
recommendations. NatWest confirmed that debit interest paid since 1 December 2016 was 
£2,240.95 and overdraft fees of £240 and that Mr and Mrs Ss account was in a credit 
position and it would calculate the 8% interest nearer the time of settlement.
Mr and Mrs S didnt wish to accept this offer. They want further compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused as their physical and mental health was affected. They 
have asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, just to be clear my decision solely relates to NatWests overdraft lending from 17 
November 2015.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Mr and Mrs Ss statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator 
that by December 2016 it was evident Mr and Mrs S werent managing their overdraft in a 
sustainable way. While their account still had regular credits coming it the overdraft wasnt 
reducing and Mr and Mrs S hadnt seen a credit balance in a significant period of time. If 
NatWest had carried out a proper review of their statements I think it ought to have realised 
it was unlikely Mr and Mrs S would be able to sustainably repay the overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time.
NatWest has agreed to settle Mr and Mrs S complaint in-line with this finding and Mr and 
Mrs S will be refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility 
and as the account is in credit, 8% simple interest will be paid on the overpayments. So 
NatWest has agreed to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr and Mrs S say NatWest should do something different here. They say they both suffered 
from poor health which affected their ability to work and their income and that it was unjust 
NatWest took further funds out of their bank account. Mr and Mrs S say the charges affected 
their mental health and want to be compensated for this.  
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs S have said. And what they have said is a reason for 
upholding their complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to 
putting things right in cases such as theirs. Mr and Mrs S have given us a background of 
their circumstances and while I sympathise with their position much of what they have told 
us happened outside the period being looked at and I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that the main cause of the mental stress suffered is due to NatWests overdraft lending  rather than their personal circumstances alone. And I dont think this is a reason for 
departing from our normal approach to putting things right in cases such as theirs. 
All the interest, fees and charges NatWest shouldnt have added will be removed and simple 
interest added. So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already 
agreed to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, 
its up to Mr and Mrs S to decide whether they wish to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs S is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case. So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman