DRN-2195374
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) have mishandled his legal expenses 
insurance claim.
Aviva use intermediaries to administer their legal expenses policy on their behalf. So any 
reference to the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or 
omissions of such intermediaries. 
What happened
Mr E holds a legal expenses policy with Aviva. He made a claim for assistance in pursuing 
legal action against his former employer for constructive dismissal and unpaid wages. 
Mr E initially wanted to appoint his own solicitor, but Aviva told him he could not choose his 
own representative as he had not yet exhausted the ACAS early conciliation process. Aviva 
subsequently appointed one of their panel solicitors (Firm J) on 11 December 2018.
Firm J conducted a legal assessment of Mr Es claim but considered that it did not enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy, so the claim was declined. Mr E 
did not agree with Firm Js assessment and provided further information, but the solicitors 
still did not consider the claim to have sufficient prospects. 
Mr E funded his own legal assessment which was issued by his solicitor on 
28 February 2019, who deemed his case to have between 55-60% chance of success. Aviva 
contacted another one of their panel solicitors (Firm H) on 1 March 2019 and asked that 
they provide a further legal opinion on Mr Es claim. 
However, it was Firm J that subsequently responded on 4 March 2019 and advised they had 
since considered further documentation Mr E had provided and concluded that the claim 
should be covered. In their assessment, Firm J also recommended a settlement band within 
the region of £40,000 to £45,000. 
Aviva contacted Mr E on 5 March 2019 to ask which solicitors he wanted to appoint going 
forwards. He told them to appoint his own solicitors, Firm E, and also said that the offer his 
employer had made at that time was too low. Firm E was appointed on 13 March 2019, and 
a further settlement offer of £44,000 was made by Mr Es former employer on 
28 March 2019, which he subsequently accepted. 
Mr E complained about Avivas handling of his case. He says that his claim had two 
elements: constructive dismissal and unpaid wages (due to be underpaid for annual leave). 
However, he said that Aviva failed to include his claim for unpaid wages in his settlement. So 
he says he was only given the opportunity to review the settlement amount in terms of his 
constructive dismissal, which did not incorporate any restitutionary sum for his unpaid 
wages. 
Mr E says he couldnt reject the offer put forwards by his employer, (despite knowing it did 
not compensate him for his unpaid wages), because Aviva would have withdrawn funding if 
he refused it, given that the offer fell at the top end of Firm Js settlement recommendation. 
As a result, he said that Aviva are liable to compensate him for the additional amount he 
could have received if the matter proceeded to tribunal. Mr E also complained about the poor 
level of service he received from those involved in his claim, and also says he should be 
reimbursed for the £1,500 he spent on obtaining his own prospects assessment. 
Aviva did not agree that Mr Es settlement figure had been impacted by their handling of the 
claim, but they agreed there were some instances where they could have been more pro-
active, for which they offered a total of £150 compensation. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Es complaint. He did not consider Aviva to be 
responsible for the legal advice given by the panel solicitors and said there was no evidence 
of the insurer telling Mr E that he had to accept the settlement. The investigator also did not 
think Aviva should have to reimburse Mr E for the positive prospects assessment he 
obtained. Me E disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr E has raised several concerns that centre predominantly around the quality of the advice 
and service provided by Firm J as his solicitor, such as their initial assessment of his claim 
when they said it did not have reasonable prospects. But as the investigator has already 
highlighted, Aviva is the legal expenses insurance provider, not the suitably qualified expert 
dealing with the case. As such, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in 
light of the policy terms to determine whether theyve fulfilled their obligations reasonably, 
and dealt with the claim fairly. Were unable to consider the quality of legal advice (unless it 
is patently wrong) or the actions of a law firm as this falls under the remit of the Scottish 
Legal Complaints Commission (SLCC) in this case  whom I understand Mr E has already 
complained to.
Unpaid wages claim
Mr E submits that Avivas failed to include his claim for unpaid wages in his legal 
assessment, and that this has led to him receiving a lower settlement than he wouldve 
otherwise received because it did not take account of this element of his dispute. 
Having considered the evidence and relevant correspondence, I do not doubt that Mr E 
included the matter of unpaid wages in his dispute against his former employer. But while I 
appreciate it was Aviva that provided instructions for Firm J to complete a legal assessment, 
it was the solicitors who ultimately provided it (not the insurer). And I note that Firm J have 
also said with regard to the issue of deducted wages that they consider the calculation of 
[Mr Es] deducted wages to involve a more detailed calculation that was necessary for us to 
carry out our instructions (i.e. to complete the prospects assessment). 
In their legal assessment, Firm J proposed that a reasonable settlement figure for Mr Es 
dispute would fall within the region of £40,000 to £45,000. The employer subsequently made 
an offer on 28 March 2019 that was at the top end of that offer, which Mr E says he was 
forced to accept because the insurer would have otherwise withdrawn funding. This was also 
on the same day that Aviva appointed Firm E to act on his behalf. But Ive seen no evidence that would suggest Mr E was told he had no choice but to accept the settlement offer, or that 
Aviva would withdraw funding if he didnt.
Indeed, from the evidence Ive seen there was no such ultimatum. Ive listened to a call 
between Firm E and Aviva on 28 March 2019, for example, where Aviva said they were 
calling to authorise funding for Firm E to negotiate a settlement. It was the solicitors, 
however, that said they were happy with the £44,000 offer made from the employer as it was 
at the higher end of Firm Js proposal. Aviva made no mentioned of Mr E having to accept 
this offer, but instead said they were happy to authorise funding for settlement negotiations.
If Mr E did not consider the offer to be adequate compensation in full and final settlement of 
his claims for both constructive dismissal and unpaid wages, it was incumbent on him to 
have this discussion with his solicitor, making it clear that he did not want to accept it as it 
allegedly didnt include any repayment of his unpaid wages. If Firm E agreed and advised 
Aviva that the settlement was not adequate in that regard, then there is seemingly no reason 
why the insurer would not have continued to fund Mr Es claim for settlement negotiations to 
continue, or to even proceed to tribunal. However, instead of disputing the settlement, Mr E 
accepted it. And in doing so, he has forfeited his rights to bring any further legal claim 
against his previous employer. If the reason he accepted it was due to the advice of his 
solicitors, then this will need to be a complaint directed at Firm E, as Aviva cannot be held 
responsible for this.
I have also got to take into account that Mr E may not have even secured a better settlement 
even if he had rejected the offer. The prospects assessment he obtained gave him only a 
60% chance of success at best, and there was no guarantee he would have got a higher 
award due to his unpaid wages, even if he proceeded to tribunal. So I do not consider there 
to be any fair and reasonable basis in which Aviva can be held liable for what Mr E considers 
he maybe could have obtained if he hadnt accepted the offer (which, as Ive already 
outlined, appears to have been entirely of his own volition rather than any undue pressure 
exerted by the insurer).
Cost of legal assessment 
Mr E has further complained that Aviva will not refund him the cost of the positive legal 
assessment he obtained from his own solicitor. But it was Firm J who subsequently agreed 
that the claim had positive prospects, which they said was due to receiving sufficient 
additional information from Mr E (as opposed to the change in opinion being a direct result of 
the assessment from his own solicitor). 
Mr E disputes this and says that Firm J always had the necessary information. It isnt clear if 
Firm J always did have the information they needed, and I note that Mr E had subsequently 
provided further information to the solicitors after they deemed his claim to have insufficient 
prospects. But supposing for a minute that they did always have the necessary information, 
it would seemingly have been Firm Js failure that led to Mr E having to source and pay for 
his own prospects assessment, rather than any act or omission of Aviva. And as Ive set out 
previously, I cannot hold the insurer responsible for the acts of the solicitor or the quality of 
the legal advice provided. 
I can also see that after negative prospects were given, Mr E was also told 
You can submit a legal challenge in the form of a legal assessment from a solicitor 
of your own choice, provided that the solicitor is suitably qualified and has had sight 
of all available facts and evidence on your claimThe cost of this advice will be 
your responsibility. If it is supportive we can consider your claim further [My 
emphasis added]. So Mr E was also told that the cost of any further legal assessment would be his 
responsibility. I appreciate that the policy provides for reimbursement in certain 
circumstances, but not when it was ultimately Avivas panel solicitors who reported that the 
claim had sufficient prospects. So I do not consider the insurer has acted unreasonably by 
failing to reimburse the cost of Mr Es legal assessment in these circumstances. 
Service and handling of claim
Ive considered the service Mr E received from Aviva and whether the compensation theyve 
offered is fair. I can see that Mr E initially wanted to choose his own solicitor and that this 
request was declined. But legal proceedings had not been issued at that stage, and neither 
was there any alleged conflict of interest present. So Mr E was not entitled to freedom of 
choice under the policy terms and conditions, nor Regulation 6 of the Insurance Companies 
(Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990. 
In terms of the other aspects of Avivas handling of the claim, I appreciate that certain 
elements could have been handled better, and that there were some minor delays. The 
insurer has also acknowledged that they could have been more pro-active at times. They 
said they could have dealt with the issue concerning Mr Es solicitors eligibility more quickly, 
for example, as well as conceding delays in obtaining a positive prospects assessment.
I appreciate the experience would have been frustrating at times for Mr E. But I have to 
consider whether, in the circumstances, the £150 compensation offered by Aviva is 
proportionate to the trouble and upset suffered.
The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial
Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to
award further compensation to Mr E, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions
of Aviva have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I
cant say it has in these circumstances.
So I dont consider the actions of Aviva to warrant any further compensation at a higher 
level. And for the instances where their service did fall below an acceptable standard, I
consider Avivas offer of £150 to be fair compensation in the circumstances.
I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr E, and that he feels strongly about this 
matter because his complaint about Firm J has not been upheld by the SLCC. But having 
considered all the evidence, I do not consider Aviva to be responsible for the level of 
settlement he has received, or that they need to take any further action in these 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman