DRN-1397985
 
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that a car he financed through Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn), was 
of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 1 May 2019, Mr J was supplied a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. At the time of supply, the car was just over 3 years old and had done 78,875 
miles. On 31 July 2019 Mr J complained to Moneybarn that there were faults with the car  
he said there were issues with the turbos, there was oil in the intercooler and the diesel 
particulate filter needed recharging.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the car. This inspection took 
place on 5 August 2019 and the engineer said that the likely cause was wear and tear 
because of the mileage the car had done. But the engineer said the turbos would need 
removing and a further inspection taking place. Moneybarn offered to cover the costs of this. 
Alternatively they offered Mr J £288 towards the costs of any repairs.
Mr J accepted the offer of the money in resolution to his complaint, and had the turbos 
repaired. But he was still having problems with the engine. The independent engineer 
inspected the car again on 13 September 2019. He concluded that there were faults with Mr 
Js car which wouldnt have been present when the finance started.
Mr J has complained that the cars engine had gone wrong three months after he purchased 
it. Our investigator said Mr J had bought a used car which had done a significant amount of 
mileage. So it would be expected to have parts thatd need replacing much quicker than on a 
brand-new car. He said the independent engineer had said the faults wouldnt have been 
present at the time the finance started. And the three companies whod been involved in the 
repairs to Mr Js car couldnt say that the faults were present, or developing, at the time Mr J 
took possession of the car. 
So the investigator said he didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more. Mr J didnt 
agree with the investigator and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. Mr J 
has also said hes raised a complaint through a solicitor about commission, by my decision 
will only address the issues Mr J originally brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering this complaint Ive had 
regard to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I consider was good industry practice at the time.Mr J bought his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it. Moneybarn is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement. 
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory 
quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible. 
Goods are considered to be satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person 
would consider them satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods, their 
price and all other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this, the other relevant circumstances I might consider relevant would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. The quality of 
the goods also includes their general state and condition; and other things like their fitness 
for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability. 
Durability means that the components within the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr J bought it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
When Mr J took possession of the car, it was around 3 years old and had done 78,875 miles. 
Id expect to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage, especially as the car 
had done significantly more than average mileage. Theres no dispute that there were some 
issues with the cars engine. But what I need to consider is whether those faults, and the 
repairs Mr Js car needed meant the car was not of a satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr J.
Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report carried out on 5 August 2019, when 
the car had done 84,375 miles. The report said there was wear and tear in the turbos, which 
was to be expected given the high mileage. But the engineer couldnt conclude whether the 
faults had been present when Mr J purchased the car without the turbos being removed and 
a further inspection taking place. Mr J chose to take cash-in-lieu of this inspection and he 
arranged to have the turbos repaired himself.
Ive also seen a copy of the independent engineers report carried out on 13 September 
2019. This report says after the repair to the turbos further engine issues were found that 
requires a new engine to be installed. The engineer said the current faults are on the 
balance of probability related to the previous turbo charger faults, where the oil was 
bypassed and caused oil starvation. 
The engineer also said that engine wear related faults can occur within a wide mileage 
window but above 80,000 miles a primary factor is just normal deterioration. In other words 
it was reasonably possible that the part that failed on Mr Js car could be as a result of wear 
and tear at that mileage.
In conclusion, the engineer said the current faults would not have been present since 
finance inception. Mr J had his engine repaired in October 2019 at the cost of £3,138.
The investigator contacted the three garages whod inspected and repaired Mr Js car. He 
asked them if the faults with the turbo wouldve been present when Mr J took possession of 
the car. One of them said definitely not, while the other two couldnt say.
Mr J bought a high mileage car, and despite its relatively young age, its reasonable to 
expect there to be a certain amount of mileage related wear and tear. So he would also 
expect major components to need replacing much sooner than with a low mileage car, and 
for there to be costs associated with this.Its unfortunate for Mr J that his car developed a problem with the turbos, which led to further 
engine damage. But all the evidence Ive seen says this wasnt present when Mr J took 
possession of the car. So the faults mustve developed in the 5,500 miles the car was driven 
between 1 May 2019 and 5 August 2019. And, given the high mileage the car had already 
done before this, the need to have to replace worn out engine components wouldve been 
reasonably expected.
Because of this, I dont agree that Moneybarn are responsible for the costs of repairing Mr 
Js car, nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance agreement. Mr 
Js car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied, considering all the relevant 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Js complaint against Moneybarn No.1 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman