DRN-4134294
The complaint
Mr F complains that Loans 2 Go Limited was irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr F had one loan from Loans 2 Go in July 2021 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 7 Jul 2021 £3,000 24m £362 7 Jul 2023 In arrears
Mr F says the loan should never have been approved and that Loans 2 Go was dismissive 
and showed no empathy when he complained. He says the repayments were unaffordable 
and his poor credit record should have alerted Loans 2 Go to that. Mr F also adds that the 
interest rate was excessive and that payments were taken after hed complained.
Loans 2 Go says it carried out a credit check, verified Mr Fs income and calculated his 
disposable income. It says the checks showed the repayments were affordable to him, but, 
as a gesture of goodwill, it initially offered to reduce the interest on the loan by 20%. It then 
increased its offer to 50%, but Mr F declined.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He found that Loans 2 Gos 
checks indicated that Mr F was already struggling financially, and the new lending should not 
have been approved. Our investigator said that Loans 2 Go should refund any interest and 
charges on the loan and that adverse information should be removed from his credit file.
Loans 2 Go responded to say, in summary, that the credit check showed Mr F was 
managing his finances with no adverse information. It said it had no reason to carry out 
further checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
Bearing this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Fs case, I have considered the following 
questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Fs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
When Mr F applied for the loan, Ive seen evidence to show Loans 2 Go asked about his 
financial circumstances, checked his credit file and verified his income. However, Im not 
satisfied that these checks went far enough because:
The loan was for a period of 24 months and Loans 2 Go needed to ensure the 
repayments were sustainable over that period;
Mr F had declared his monthly income was £4,000, but Loans 2 Gos checks showed 
it to be around £2,200;
oLoans 2 Go had also recorded that he was self-employed and received his 
income fortnightly in cash;
Mr F said his total expenditure was just £205 per month, including no spend on 
credit, although Loans 2 Go estimated it to be around £1,430;
Although Mr Fs accounts were up to date, the credit check showed:
oFour credit cards with a combined balance of around £4,800; 
oTwo overdrafts totalling £1,670 - one of which was over its limit;
oA hire purchase agreement with monthly repayments of £168;
oMonthly insurance payments of £77;
Mr F was already committed to paying around 22% of his verified income on credit 
repayments  this rose to over 38% with the new loan.
As Mr F was committing a significant amount of his income to credit repayments, and his 
declarations about his income and expenditure were clearly inaccurate, I find proportionate 
checks should have included Loans 2 Go getting a better understanding of Mr Fs financial 
situation, including his regular income and expenditure each month. 
Ive looked at Mr Fs bank statements from the relevant period, as a reasonable proxy for 
what proportionate checks may have shown. These show:
Mr F received a Covid grant on 7 May 2021, but his regular income (received in 
cash) was about £720 per month in May and June, with a further monthly benefit 
payment of £340;
In addition to his credit repayments, Mr F was paying HMRC £245 per month and his 
mobile phone cost £50;
In the two months leading up to the loan, Mr F had had multiple direct debits returned 
unpaid;
Given Mr F was already committed to credit repayments of over £470, it is clear that a 
further repayment of £362 each month was unaffordable to Mr F. The returned direct debits 
already indicated Mr F was struggling financially and I consider proportionate checks would have shown Loans 2 Go that further lending was irresponsible. Indeed, I note that Mr F first 
missed a payment on 6 August 2021.
Ive also considered whether Loans 2 Go treated Mr F fairly when he got into financial 
difficulties. When Mr F contacted Loans 2 Go in February 2022 to explain he had limited 
income, it accepted reduced payments of £100 per month for three months. Following one 
contractual payment at the end of April 2022, further reduced payments were accepted until 
August 2022. Mr F made a contractual payment in September 2022 after which he raised his 
complaint about irresponsible lending in early October 2022. I accept Mr F says Loans 2 Go 
should not then have taken a payment later in October, but I dont find it did anything wrong 
in that respect as I cant see Mr F requested payments to stop. I also find Loans 2 Go acted 
reasonably by accepting reduced payments when it did.
So, based on all the evidence, I find Loans 2 Go did not make a fair lending decision for the 
loan, although I cant see it acted unfairly in any other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should:
 
Add up the total amount of money Mr F received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr F made should be deducted from this amount.
 If this results in Mr F having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement). *
 If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Loans 2 Go should attempt 
to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr F;
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Fs credit file regarding the loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman