DRN-3373954
The complaint
Mr S says he was given unsuitable advice to switch personal pensions into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) and make unsuitable high-risk investments. The 
investments have since failed, and Mr S has lost the pension money he invested. 
Mr S says Quilter Financial Limited is responsible for that advice.
What happened
Mr S says he was contacted by phone by a financial adviser wanting to discuss his 
pension. Mr S says he cannot recall the firm that person was calling from. Mr S says 
he was told he would be better off transferring his pension into a SIPP as his existing 
pensions were only making 1% returns per annum. Mr S says the adviser then 
recommended an investment with Global Agricultural Services (formerly Verdant 
Australian Farmland) (GAS) and Vista Santa Fe (Vista)  both involved investing in 
plots of land. The adviser said that both of these investments would create 12% 
returns a year and he assured Mr S the investments were safe, secure and 
guaranteed to bring regular returns.
Mr S believes his details were then forwarded to Bridgewater Financial Services 
Limited to conduct the next steps in switching his pensions. At the time of advice, 
Bridgewater was an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Advisers Ltd 
which later became Caerus Financial Ltd, now Quilter Financial Limited.
In June 2010, Mr S signed a Lifetime SIPP application form and the SIPP was 
opened in July 2010.  In August and September funds were transferred to the 
SIPP from Mr Ss existing pensions.  IFA fees of around £2,000 were paid out 
and around £70,000 paid out to the investments.
Later in 2019 Mr S complained to Quilter about the advice he had been given by 
Bridgewater.
Quilter said it was not required to consider the complaint as it was made outside of 
the time limits set by the regulator. It said Mr S received an update letter in October 
2014 about one of the funds and this ought to have given Mr S cause for complaint. 
It also said Mr S would have received annual statements showing his fund had 
reduced in value. It says this combined with the fact Mr S raised some concerns with 
the fund managers direct in 2012, shows Mr S had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he complained.
Mr S then referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
An investigator and then an Ombudsman reviewed the complaint. The Ombudsman issued a 
jurisdiction decision on the time bar point. He said the complaint was made in time and could 
therefore be considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.  In summary, he said:
The event complained about is the advice given in 2010 which is more 
than six years before Mr S complained in 2019.
Quilter says Mr S received an update letter in October 2014 about the 
GAS fund and would have received annual statements showing the fund 
had reduced in value. And Mr S raised some concerns about the 
investment in 2012.
The investments were complex and beyond Mr Ss level of investment 
knowledge and understanding.  Account was taken of this when 
considering whether Mr S ought to have had cause for complaint.
The 2012 correspondence, and the 2014 update and Mr Ss comments on 
them were considered by the ombudsman who also noted what Mr S said 
about a lack of annual statements.  
The ombudsman said Mr S received a statement in 2017 which put him on 
notice of significant losses and he complained within three years of that 
knowledge.  The ombudsman was not satisfied that Mr S should have known 
he had cause to complain any earlier and his decision was that the complaint 
was not time barred.
The ombudsman said a different jurisdiction point, whether Bridgewater was acting beyond its 
authority from Quilter, would have to be considered separately.
A different investigator considered the authority point.  On that point the new investigator 
said:
Bridgewater advised Mr S to switch his personal pensions to a SIPP.
The investments were made a short time after the SIPP was set up and the advice 
about the investments was given at the same time as the advice to switch pensions 
to the SIPP.  
The complaint is about these acts and so its a complaint about regulated activities.
The available evidence showed advice was given by Bridgewater and it was at the 
time of the advice an appointed representative of what is now Quilter.
A principal (Quilter) of an appointed representative (Bridgewater) is responsible for 
the activities it authorises its appointed representative to carry on.
Quilter says it had no business relationship with GAS and Bridgewater was not 
authorised by it to advise on investments with GAS or Vista.
Quilter has not been able to provide a copy of the appointed representative 
agreement between it and Bridgewater.  It did however provide a generic agreement 
in use at around that time which it says shows the terms of the agreement with 
Bridgewater.
That agreement did not limit Bridgewaters authority in such a way that it could only 
advise on authorised institutions.  Quilter provided no other evidence to support its 
position that Bridgewaters authority was restricted in the way it says.
Quilter is therefore responsible for the advice the complaint is about.
The investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint and in summary said:
In 2013  that is after the advice in this case - the FSA issued an Alert about pension 
transfers with a view to investing pension monies in unregulated products through a 
SIPP.
The Alert was a reminder of obligations that existed at the time of the advice in this 
complaint.
The investments in this case represented a high risk strategy and were not suitable 
for most people.
There is little evidence of Mr Ss requirements at the time.  Mr S said he was low-
medium risk investor and that he could not afford to lose his pension funds.
Recommending switching pensions in order to invest in the GAS and Vista investments was unsuitable.
Quilter should pay compensation to Mr S based on comparing his present position to 
the likely value of his pensions if he had not switched them.  Quilter should take 
ownership of the investments.  It should also pay compensation in respect of fees on 
Mr Ss SIPP if he cant close it down.  And pay him compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused. 
Mr S agrees with the investigator.  Quilter does not.  It says:
The contract between Bridgewater and Quilter confirms that in order for Quilter to be 
responsible the client must have been introduced or submitted an application to an 
approved institution.
Bridgewater therefore acted outside its contract with Quilter.
Quilter has no business relationship with Verdant Wealth Australia/GAS.
It disagrees with the conclusions my fellow Ombudsman reached on the time bar 
issue.  It thinks the letter of 2014 would have given Mr S enough knowledge for him 
to know he had cause for complaint.  It says another Ombudsman in another case 
came to that view about the same letter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I will deal with jurisdiction  which is dealt with on the basis of the relevant rules and law 
and not on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Each case is considered on its own facts. Another ombudsman has considered the evidence 
in this case and has come to a decision on time bar based on the circumstances of this 
case.  The ombudsman explained why in the circumstances of this case he did not consider 
the complaint time barred.  Quilter disagrees with that view but it has not produced any new 
evidence or made any points that have not already been considered.
For the reasons already given by my fellow Ombudsman in his jurisdiction decision of 29 
December 2020 this complaint is not time barred.  
On the issue of authority, I agree with the investigator.  Quilter says Bridgewater was only 
authorised to advise on investments from approved institutions.  But it has not provided a 
copy of the appointed representative agreement with Bridgewater that includes that 
restriction.  The version of the appointed representative agreement it says was in use does 
not include that restriction. The investigator explained this to Quilter.  It has had the 
opportunity to correct the position if it has provided the wrong version of the agreement.  It 
has not done so.  Nor has it put forward any reason why it thinks the investigators reading of 
the appointed represented agreement it did provide is wrong.
I have considered the version of the appointed representative agreement Quilter has 
provided.  If that is the version that was used  which is Quilters position  then Bridgewater 
was authorised to give investment and pension advice including advice on pension transfers.  
That authority was not restricted only to advising on investments with authorised institutions.
Quilter is therefore responsible for the disputed advice in this case.
Turning now to the merits of this complaint  which I must decide on the basis of what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances - as the investigator explained there is ample 
evidence that Bridgwater advised Mr S to transfer his pensions to a SIPP.  For example an email from Bridgewater to Mr S in June 2010 said:
I understand from [name given] that you are looking to invest in Verdant 
Australian farmland. I am also aware from Sceptre that you have been 
looking at their investments. These can all be facilitated.
I am going to be in your area on Friday of this week and would be happy 
to see you then. Alternatively I could see you on another day if that does 
not suit you.
Please would you give me a call to arrange a meeting to sort out 
the necessary paperwork.
Another email said:
Your report has now been finalised and approved by our compliance 
department. As discussed I am recommending that you transfer the two 
Prudential and the Halifax pensions but not the Standard Life Money 
Purchase pension. The reason for recommending that you keep the latter 
is that you will lose a substantial entitlement to tax free cash and you will 
suffer a very heavy penalty on exit.
When you have read through the report, please print off, sign and then 
scan/email the last page to me. I will then send off the forms on your 
behalf.
Bridgewater sent the SIPP application to Lifetime SIPP together with the request to transfer 
the pensions to it.  And Bridgwater was paid fees from the SIPP.
It is also clear that Bridgewater was aware of the investments Mr S had been introduced to 
and was going to invest in in his SIPP.
As the investigator said the FSA issued an Alert in 2013 which reminded advisers about their 
existing obligations.  It said:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are 
giving advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without 
assessing the advantages and disadvantages of investments proposed to be 
held within the new pension. In particular, we have seen financial advisers 
moving customers retirement savings to self-invested personal pensions 
(SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often highly illiquid 
unregulated investments (some of which may be in Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes). Examples of these unregulated investments 
areoverseas property developments
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice 
is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products 
(such as SIPPs), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, 
that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated 
schemes. It should be particularly clear to financial advisers that, where a 
customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider 
investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take account of 
the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.For example, where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that 
the customer will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release 
funds to invest in an overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the 
suitability of the overseas property investment must form part of the advice 
about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension 
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, 
then the SIPP is not suitable.
I agree that the above described approach to ensuring suitability applied at the time 
Bridgewater advised Mr S in 2010.  It is clear it advised on transferring existing pensions to a 
SIPP without properly considering the suitability of the proposed investments to be made in 
the SIPP after the transfer.  The investments were higher risk esoteric investments that were 
not suitable for pension investments for most retail investors.  Mr S was not a sophisticated 
investor and there is no evidence that these investments were suitable for him.  I agree that 
advice to transfer existing personal pensions to a SIPP in order to make such investments 
was not suitable advice for Mr S.
Like the investigator, Im satisfied that, had Mr S been given suitable advice, to leave 
his personal pensions where they were, and had he understood the risks of the 
proposed investments, he would not have switched his pensions to the SIPP, or made 
the investments into GAS and Vista.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he 
would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
Quilter should therefore calculate fair redress by comparing the current position to 
the position Mr S would be in if he had not switched from his existing pensions. In 
summary, Quilter should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the investments.
2. Take ownership of the investments held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ss pension in respect of his pension 
loss. If that is not possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr S direct. In 
either case the payment should take into account necessary adjustments set 
out below.
4. Pay Mr Ss SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event he is not now 
able to close his SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Mr S
6. Pay interest on the above if fair redress is not paid with 28 days of 
notification of acceptance by Mr S.
Ill explain how Quilter should carry out the calculation set out above in further 
detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr S has suffered as a result of making the switches
To do this, Quilter should work out the likely value of Mr Ss pensions as at the date 
of this view, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter should ask Mr Ss former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in 
obtaining a notional valuation then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-
year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England should be used to 
calculate the value. That is likely to be a reasonable proxy for the type of return that 
could have been achieved if the pensions had not been switched.
The notional transfer value should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at 
the date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr S has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr S paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional 
transfer value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of 
regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those 
payments and deducts that figure at the end.
2 .Take ownership of the investments
Ideally, the assets in the SIPP the investments - could be removed from the SIPP. 
Mr S would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further 
fees for the SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter should agree an amount 
with the SIPP operator as a commercial value for the shares. It should then pay the 
sum agreed plus any costs and take ownership of the shares.
If Quilter is able to purchase the shares then the price paid to purchase the holding/s 
should be allowed for in the current transfer value (because it will have been paid 
into the SIPP to secure the holding/s).
If Quilter is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should 
give them a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr S is 
compensated in full, Quilter may ask Mr S to provide an undertaking to account to it 
for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from the investment. That 
undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr S 
may receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access 
from the SIPP. Quilter will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr S for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr S has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the 
value of his pension provisions if that is possible. So if possible the compensation for 
the loss should be paid into the pensions. The compensation shouldnt be paid into 
the pensions if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment 
into the pensions should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
This may mean the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and 
reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief Mr S could claim. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax.
If it is not possible to pay the compensation into a pension the compensation should 
be paid to Mr S direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the 
pension, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for 
the loss paid to Mr S should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr S is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter should 
pay an amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on 
the most recent years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr 
S would not be in the SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it would not be fair for 
him to have to pay fees to keep it open. And I am satisfied five years will allow 
sufficient time for things to be sorted out with the shares, and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Distress and inconvenience
Suffering significant loss in the value of his pension will naturally have caused 
Mr S distress and inconvenience.  Quilter should pay Mr S £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr S accordingly.
6. Pay interest
Quilter should pay fair redress as set out above within 28 days of being notified that Mr S 
has accept this decision.  If it does not, interest on the redress due is to be paid from the 
date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest per year.
My final decision
For the reasons given, the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider Mr Ss complaint.  I 
uphold that complaint and Quilter Financial Limited is to pay fair redress, plus interest as 
appropriate, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Philip Roberts
Ombudsman