DRN-3171323
The complaint
Ms D complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt tell her that a balance transfer was not 
interest free.
What happened
Ms D says she called Sainsburys to close her credit card account. She says she was told 
there was a balance transfer offer available with 0% interest and so transferred over £5,000 
to her account. Ms D says she then called Sainsburys again and asked if she could transfer 
a further amount. She says she was told she could and so transferred about £700 but later 
found out that transfer was not at 0% interest. Ms D says Sainsburys ought to have told her 
that when she called and would like that amount included in the original 0% offer.
Sainsburys says Ms D called it in April 2021 about closing her account. It says it told Ms D 
that there was a balance transfer offer available until 3 May 2021 with 0% interest. 
Sainsburys says Ms D called it again on 5 May 2021 and asked if she could top up the 
transfer. It says it correctly told Ms D she could transfer a further amount up to £760 if she 
wished and could do so online. It also says Ms D didnt ask it about the interest rate 
available but had previously been told on a number of occasions about the offer expiry date.
Ms D brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Ms D had been told on at least three occasions about the offer expiry date and 
hadnt asked about it during the second call.
Ms D doesnt accept that view and says Sainsburys ought to have told her interest would be 
charged and ought to have been clearer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have listened to both telephone calls between Ms D and Sainsburys. Having done so Im 
satisfied that Ms D was told more than once during the first call that the 0% offer ended on 3 
May 2021 and that on one occasion Ms D repeated that information. So, Im satisfied 
Sainsburys made clear when the offer ended and didnt mislead Ms D about it. 
The key call is the second call. Im satisfied Ms D called Sainsburys about her direct debit 
before asking it if she could transfer a further amount. Im also satisfied Sainsburys told Ms 
D she could transfer a further £760 but there was no discussion by either party about the 
applicable interest rate. And that Ms D was given information about making the transfer 
online if she wished. So, Im satisfied that Sainsburys didnt mislead Ms D or give her 
incorrect information about the interest rate but told her that a balance transfer amount was 
available to her, which it was. I would have expected Ms D to have raised the interest rate 
question herself if that was the important factor in deciding to make a further transfer and I 
cant fairly hold Sainsburys responsible for not appreciated that may have been an issue. In 
any event I have made clear that I find Ms D ought to have been aware of the transfer 
deadline offer as she had been told that information in April 2021.
I can see that Ms D made the balance transfer herself and think it her responsibility to have 
checked the applicable interest rate before making the online transaction. I also think it likely 
that interest rate details would have been available to her online before she made the 
balance transfer. For those reasons I cant fairly order Sainsburys include the May 2021 
balance transfer in the 0% offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman