DRN-1936490
The complaint
Mr O complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited dealt with a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants it to honour its offer to deal with his claim under his windscreen 
cover. 
What happened
Mr Os cars rear windscreen was damaged by an unknown person and he wanted it 
replaced under his windscreen cover. This would have meant he paid a £60 policy excess 
and his No Claims Discount (NCD) wouldnt be affected. But the windscreen was integral 
with the roof and so Ageas repairer couldnt replace it. 
Ageas said it could deal with the claim as malicious damage under the policy. This meant 
that Mr O would pay a policy excess of £475 and his NCD would be affected. Ageas later 
mistakenly said it could look to deal with it as a windscreen claim. To apologise, it offered to 
refund Mr O the £60 he would have paid for his windscreen excess. 
Mr O was unhappy with this, but he eventually had his car repaired. He thought Ageas had 
mis-sold him the policy as he thought it should have known the windscreen cover wouldnt 
cover his rear windscreen. He was also unhappy that it didnt provide storage for his car and 
it was exposed to the weather in the interim. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Ageas 
had dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably under the policy terms and conditions. He 
thought its offer of £60 deduction in the excess for any confusion was fair and reasonable. 
He didnt think it needed to arrange storage until Mr O had agreed to make a malicious 
damage claim. 
Mr O replied that he thought Ageas should honour its offer to deal with the claim under his 
windscreen cover. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr O doesnt want to pay more for his repair than he needs to. And I 
can also understand that he doesnt want his NCD to be affected by a claim. Our approach 
in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ive looked at Mr Os policy and I can see that glass claims cover the glass itself and any 
bodywork specifically damaged by broken glass. Under What is Covered, it says: 
The cost of repairing or replacing the windscreen, windows or sunroof glass
in the car damaged during the period of insurance.
The cost of any repair to the bodywork that has been damaged by broken glass from the 
windscreen, windows or sunroof.
The policy also provides cover for malicious damage.
Replacing the cars windscreen meant also replacing the roof as, from what Ive seen, the 
two were integral. I think this means that replacing the roof wouldnt be covered under the 
windscreen cover under the policy terms and conditions. So I think Ageas reasonably offered 
to deal with the claim as malicious damage instead. 
Mr O thought that Ageas should honour its offer, made on the phone and by email, to deal 
with the claim under the windscreen cover. 
But I dont think this would be fair or reasonable. This is because I think Ageas made it clear 
to Mr O that it would only deal with the claim under the windscreen cover if there was no 
damage to the roof. And the roof would have to be replaced with the windscreen. 
As the investigator has explained, if the claim had been dealt with under the windscreen 
cover, then Mr O wouldnt have benefited. This was because the claim limit was £100 for 
repairs not dealt with by Ageas approved repairer. And it had said it couldnt make the 
repair. So Mr O would have been left with a large bill for the repairs he had done privately. 
Mr O was unhappy that his car was left unsecured whilst he decided how to proceed with his 
claim. But I cant reasonably hold Ageas responsible for this. This is because Mr O had told 
it he didnt want to proceed with a malicious damage claim. If Ageas had taken the car into 
storage, it would have incurred costs and Mr Os policy excess would then have been 
payable and his NCD affected. 
Mr O thought his policy may have been mis-sold as the windscreen cover wouldnt cover 
replacing his rear windscreen. But Ive seen that the windscreen cover is part of the policy 
and Mr O hasnt paid more because of it. Also, Mr O changed his car mid-term and so I dont 
think he would have done anything differently if Ageas had pointed out that the windscreen 
cover wouldnt fully cover him. 
Ageas offered to reduce Mr Os policy excess by £60 to compensate him for any trouble and 
upset caused by its misinformation about his cover. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So I think Ageas dealt with Mr Os claim fairly and reasonably and in keeping with the policy 
terms and conditions. I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman