DRN-3139421
The complaint
Mr T complains that he couldnt make a transfer to his regular saver account with Marks & 
Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S).
What happened
Mr T had a regular saver account with M&S. There was a monthly standing order of £250 
which debited his M&S current account. On 8 February 2021, the monthly standing order to 
Mr Ts regular saver wasnt paid  as there werent enough funds in his M&S current account 
when the account was checked for funds at 1530 on that day. At 1831, There was a credit 
paid into Mr Ts M&S current account for £250  but by then, M&S had made the decision 
not to make the standing order transfer to Mr Ts regular saver. Mr T complained and M&S 
issued their final response on 25 February 2021. On 27 February 2021, Mr T called M&S 
and asked for a one-off standing order of £250 to be made for the February contribution, 
but the call agent couldnt do this.
Mr T complained  he said hed been told by M&S complaints team in their final response to 
call them to make a one-off standing order to his regular saver, but when he called, this 
wasnt possible. So  hed lost out on the interest that was due as a result.
M&S said in their final response letter (FRL) that their regular saver accounts were fed by 
monthly standing order. They checked Mr Ts current account balance at 1530 on 8 
February 2021  and there wasnt enough money in it for the standing order to be paid. The 
credit of £250 was received at 1831 and so that was too late. They said that Mr T could put 
things right by contacting their customer service team to request a one-off standing order to 
the regular saver. 
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator said that M&S were at fault  because 
when Mr T called them  as advised in their FRL - the one-off standing order wasnt possible 
 hed therefore lost out. He recommended that Mr T receive compensation of £100, plus the 
additional interest that he wouldve got if the February 2021 transfer had been made. 
M&S didnt agree and asked that Mr Ts complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in contention that Mr T didnt have the money in his M&S account when the standing 
order was due to be made on 8 February 2021. M&Ss terms and conditions do state that 
finds have to be in customers current accounts by 1530 on the day to cover the standing 
order. They say If you ask us to make payments on a particular day, well check you have 
enough money in your account to make them at the start of that day (including any arranged 
overdraft). Unless its a weekend or public holiday well check again at:
1.30pm for cheque payments; and
3.30pm for all other payments.
And so  because Mr T didnt have enough money in his account at 1530 on 8 February 
2021  the standing order to his regular saver wasnt paid.
It's also clear that regular monthly payments to the regular saver were needed each month 
by standing order. The M&S Monthly Saver Summary Box says, Regular payments must be 
made by standing order each month.
But  the crux of Mr Ts complaint is that M&Ss FRL dated 25 February 2021 advised him to 
make a one off standing order payment to bring his regular save up to date  and when he 
called, this wasnt possible. I can see that M&Ss FRL said  contact the customer service 
team to request set up of a one off standing order.
Mr T then called M&S on 27 February 2021. Ive listened to the call. Mr T makes it clear that 
he was advised by M&S complaints team to call to make the one-off standing order. The call 
handler said he could make the one-off standing order  but it would take two working days 
to credit the regular saver. Because the day of the call was a Saturday  the next working 
day was 1 March 2021. Mr T asked if it could be done quicker  but it couldnt  as the 
payment had to be by standing order, and took two days. Mr T was then concerned that 
because of this  he would still have missed the February contribution to the regular saver. I 
dont think the call handler made a mistake here  she was correct in saying there would be 
a two-day delay. But  where M&S went wrong was not letting Mr T know in their FRL that 
the standing order payment would take two days  and therefore the February 2021 
contribution would be missed.
I can see that M&S argued that theyve paid compensation to Mr T previously for an issue 
that arose with a missed payment  but that was the subject of a separate complaint and 
was different to the complaint in question. Mr T has said that he would accept compensation 
of £200  Ive considered this and £100 is the right amount for what happened and is in line 
with what this service would expect to see.
So  I agree with our investigator that M&S couldve done better here, and they must make a 
compensation payment of £100 to Mr T, and make up the difference in interest for the 
missed payment on February 2021. Theres a slight complication here  in that M&S have 
closed their current accounts and regular saver accounts  so they should pay the two 
amounts due to Mr Ts non-M&S bank account. 
(continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc must:Pay compensation of £100 to Mr T.
Pay to Mr T the credit interest he wouldve received if £250 had been credited to the 
regular saver in February 2021  through to when Mr Ts regular saver account was 
closed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman