DRN-4158640
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc did not contact him to say that it hadnt received his 
mortgage acceptance form which meant that he missed out on a more favourable interest 
rate than he is now on.
What happened
Mr T has a mortgage with HSBC. Mr T had a fixed mortgage rate which expired on 31 
December 2021. HSBC sent Mr T a letter dated 2 October 2021 telling him that the 
mortgage product was coming to an end later in the year.  Mr Ts mortgage at the time was 
about £45,800.00. Mr Ts interest rate duly changed, and HSBC sent him a letter in January 
2022 telling him that he was on HSBCs variable rate. Mr T contacted HSBC in May 2022, 
but no new rate was agreed. Then an appointment was booked on 4 June. This was a non-
advised appointment and HSBC sent Mr T a list of its available interest rates beforehand for 
him to choose. Following the meeting HSBC issued Mr T with a number of documents. One 
of these was the mortgage offer which required Mr T to sign and date and return to accept 
the offer. HSBC also sent Mr T a document confirming that he agreed to proceed with the 
mortgage application without advice as this was a non-advised sale.
HSBC says that it got back the mortgage offer unsigned, and the non-advised sale 
document signed in duplicate. So, it then sent a letter dated 16 June 2022 addressed to Mr T 
saying that he had not signed and dated the acceptance page of the offer and that they were 
sending out another offer document under separate cover. On the same date HSBC sent 
another offer document but this was not returned. Mr T says he never received it. As the 
offer wasnt returned this offer lapsed. Mr T eventually obtained a new rate with HSBC but at 
a higher rate of interest than in the original offer. Our investigator didnt recommend that this 
complaint should be upheld as he didnt find that HSBC made any error. Mr T disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr T was on a variable rate for a period he decided to fix his rate and arranged an 
appointment with a HSBC adviser. Mr T wanted a particular rate and HSBC then sent him 
out a number of documents which included an acceptance form for the mortgage offer and a 
form confirming hed not received advice on choosing the mortgage rate. Mr T appears to 
have signed two copies of the form confirming hes not received advice twice and returned it 
but didnt sign or the form accepting the mortgage offer. HSBC wrote to Mr T telling him what 
happened and sending a fresh mortgage offer. HSBC never got it back signed as Mr T says 
he didnt get it.
My role is to decide firstly whether HSBC did anything wrong. The significant factor here is 
that HSBC required a signed acceptance form from Mr T confirming he accepted the terms 
of the mortgage offer but never got it. Mr T appears to have signed a separate form twice but 
not the acceptance form. That is not the fault of HSBC. HSBC then tried to contact Mr T by 
post. The letter and new mortgage offer that were returned to Mr T appear to be addressed 
correctly and indeed appear to have been sent in separate packages. HSBC seems to have 
tried to assist Mr T in correcting his error by alerting Mr T by post to the issue and giving him 
the opportunity to rectify the situation, if he wanted to, by signing the acceptance form on the 
reissued mortgage offer. Mr T never got this letter. I appreciate that there are other ways that 
HSBC could have contacted Mr T, but I consider that its reasonable to have tried to do so by 
post and cant hold it at fault if the mail was not received by Mr T. For the above reasons I 
cant fairly uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman