DRN-4339807
The complaint
Miss E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to refund transactions from her 
account that
she didnt recognise.
What happened
Miss E reported numerous unusual transactions from her account and initially believed it was
someone who she knew who was responsible. She later didnt think this was the case and
asked HSBC to look into the matter.
Various payments were made from her account, some were bank transactions involving
payments into her account from another bank and payments to that same bank (where Miss
E also held an account). Other unrecognised payments were to a variety of gambling
merchants and used Miss Es debit card to carry out the transactions.
Miss E denied any involvement in the payments made to and from her account. Based on
Miss Es claims at the time, HSBC made a refund to her. The amount paid was to ensure
Miss Es account was in balance after the movement of funds. Essentially she was put back
to the same position she started with in relation to the unrecognised banking transfers.
Miss E continued to deny any knowledge about the debit card payments made from her
account. In total, the disputed transactions amounted to £8,085.98 which also included a few
small transactions to a non-gambling merchant. Miss Es account received £7,000 from the
gambling merchants in payments (presumably winnings). This meant that Miss Es account
was £1,085.98 in debit based on the payments and credits to her account.
Miss E sought a refund from HSBC who looked into what had happened. Miss E explained
that she was out of the country when most of the disputed transactions took place and only
noticed them towards the end of her trip. She was told that another phone had been using
her account and Miss E denied it was hers (it was a different model phone to her own).
HSBC thought that Miss E was responsible for the payments and declined to make any
further refunds to her. Unhappy with their response, Miss E brought her complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. Her complaint was assigned to an
investigator who asked both parties for information about what had happened.
Miss E repeated her story and continued to deny any involvement in the gambling
transactions. She said that the other phone using her account was unknown to her. At the
time, shed thought it may have been a close friend, but later didnt think this was the case.
Miss E confirmed her phone was protected with security and she hadnt given it or her
banking details to anyone else.
HSBC continued to believe Miss E was responsible and carried out enquiries with the
gambling merchants. Information from them indicated that accounts had been set up using
Miss Es name and her address details. But the phone and email addresses used to open
the accounts were different to ones used by Miss E.
HSBC argued that the additional device registered on Miss Es banking couldnt have been
added without her knowledge. They said that in order to add another device required actions
on the original device, so it was unlikely Miss E wouldnt have been aware of this second
device being authorised to use the account. Also, that most of the disputed transactions
were made using additional security. This security required a One Time Passcode (OTP) to
be agreed to before the transactions went through. In each case, the OTP was accepted,
and HSBC say that this would have gone to Miss Es original registered device.
After reviewing the information about the complaint, the investigator thought that Miss E
wasnt responsible for the disputed transactions, and it was plausible for someone to have
obtained her banking details (such as her close friend) and additional authentication wasnt
required for the transactions.
It was also remarked that the disputed transactions took place over the same period as the
other disputed bank transfers which were refunded, Miss E hadnt previously used gambling
merchants and some of the details didnt match her usual email or phone number.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators outcome and continued to argue there was no
evidence to suggest Miss Es account had been compromised. They highlighted data that
showed a common IP address used prior to the disputed transactions that was linked to Miss
Es usual use of the account and those that were made by the additional device to make the
disputed transactions.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
HSBC argued that their evidence pointed to Miss E receiving the OTPs (although here Miss
E denies receiving any of them). HSBC said that if the additional device had received them
using the banking app, they would expect to see evidence of it logging in. No such evidence
was present and the only device to log in was Miss Es which they thought would have
alerted her to these transactions being made from her account.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Miss Es complaint on 4 September 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Miss Es complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that HSBC can hold Miss E liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them.
HSBC can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Miss E authorised the
transactions, but HSBC cannot say that the use of online payment details conclusively
proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless HSBC can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Miss Es account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Miss E. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Miss E responsible for the disputedtransactions or not.
There are differences between both partys version of events, in summary Miss E states she
knew nothing about the disputed transactions and HSBC believe she was responsible. Its
not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide whether HSBC can reasonably hold
Miss E liable for these transactions or not. In doing so, and where theres a disagreement, Ill
be considering what is most likely to have happened based on a balance of probabilities.
HSBCs evidence shows that two devices were being used with Miss Es account. Some of
the disputed transactions were made whilst she was abroad and IP evidence shows the
disputed transactions were being made in the UK. So, here I accept that it was someone
else who was making the transactions. But, that doesnt automatically mean that Miss E
wasnt liable for them. If, on balance, the evidence shows that these transactions were made
with her knowledge, she would generally still be held liable. If on the other hand, theres a
plausible explanation for someone else being responsible then Miss E would be due a
refund.
HSBC have said they made the banking transfer refunds based on what they knew at the
time. Theyve confirmed they dont intend to take those refunds back and as Miss E was left
in the same position she started with (in relation to those specific refunds) I dont currently
intend to look into them any further.
In relation to the card payments Miss E has disputed, they were carried out using a second
device. Miss E denies any knowledge of that device, but evidence from HSBC shows the
same IP address used to make transactions to the gambling merchants was also used by
Miss Es usual device some months earlier. I think its unlikely that the same IP address
could have been used randomly by someone who later carried out these transactions
without Miss Es knowledge.
HSBC have confirmed their system is designed to prevent the registration of another device
without the user being aware of it. The user is also required to carry out certain actions
before the second device can be authorised. Miss E has also stated she hadnt provided her
banking details to anyone else. So, I cant see how someone unknown to Miss E could have
carried out the registration without access to Miss Es device and the security information to
log in to her account.
Regarding the OTPs, HSBC believe that Miss Es phone would have received them whilst
she herself says she hadnt received anything. The OTPs can be delivered via a message to
the registered phone or via an in-app procedure. HSBC cant definitively say which method
was used, but they believe it was via message to Miss Es registered phone number. They
dont think it was via an in-app procedure because that would generally need the device to
log in to the banking app at the time. If, as Miss E believes, it was the other phone that was
responsible, then Id expect to see log ins to the banking app that correspond with the OTPs
being sent out.
Theres no such activity from the other device and the only one to log in is Miss Es usual
device she had with her whilst abroad. So, the evidence points to those OTPs being sent to
Miss Es device and the transactions couldnt have been carried out without the codes being
actioned at the time. As Miss E was checking her online banking throughout the period of the
disputed transactions, Im also surprised they werent seen sooner and reported to HSBC.
I accept that the email address and the phone number attached to the gambling merchants
was different to Miss Es normal ones, but this on its own doesnt provide sufficient evidence
that the disputed transactions were carried out without her knowledge as its also apparent
that there were others involved here making the transactions.I also considered the fact that these payments were made to a gambling merchant. Its
general practice for these merchants to only pay winnings back to the account they came
from (as they did here), so those winnings would usually be locked away from an
unauthorised user of the bank account.
I havent looked into the refund made by HSBC related to the bank transfers any further
because they were refunded. I did note though that the bulk of the winnings paid into the
account were available if anyone else had unauthorised access to the account. By that I
mean they were paid into the account and could have been transferred to another account if
someone else had access to it without Miss Es knowledge. What actually happened is that
further gambling took place until the account was run down and entered a small overdraft.
Its difficult to imagine a realistic scenario where unknown third parties were able to gain
access to Miss Es account. I think its implausible to conclude they werent authorised
without stronger evidence to the contrary. My current thoughts are that its more likely than
not that Miss E had knowledge of these transactions and that its reasonable for HSBC to
hold her liable for them. Im currently not intending to uphold this complaint.
I invited Miss E and HSBC to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. HSBC didnt have anything further to add. Miss E 
responded but didnt have any new information to add. Miss E continued to deny any 
knowledge of the additional phone connected to her account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision 
confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman