DRN-4207366
The complaint
Mr A complains about Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS), trading as Halifax, on behalf of the estate 
of the late Mrs A. In summary, Mr A says that payments from the executors account he set 
up, were delayed due to systemic problems within BOS. 
What happened
Mr A set up an executors account with BOS. A grant of probate (GOP) was issued in 
February 2022. Mr A said this was provided to BOS in April 2022. But it wasnt until nearly 
the end of May before the funds could be distributed. 
Mr A wrote to BOS setting out his concerns in May 2022. BOS wrote to him in response on 
12 July 2022. The letter said it agreed with his complaint and that £80 would be paid into the 
account. It explained that the GOP should have been sent to a different area of the bank. As 
it was sent to the wrong area, this was why the account remained blocked. 
Mr As concerns were looked into by one of our investigators. They said there was no 
dispute over the timeline of events and that it took just over a month for the transaction to be 
completed. He didnt think the £80 compensation paid to Mr A by BOS was sufficient to 
reflect the stress caused to him. He thought this should be increased to £150. 
In response Mr A said he didnt agree £150 was sufficient compensation. He wanted BOS to 
tell him it would make sure the same thing didnt happen again. He didnt think it could 
provide poor service and buy people off with pennies. In reply, the investigator explained that 
the amount they had proposed was in line with what this service would expect BOS to pay. 
They didnt think a payment of interest was appropriate. They also said this service had no 
power over the way BOS worked. BOS agreed to pay an additional £70 compensation if 
Mr A accepted it. 
The case was passed to me to review. I issued a provisional decision on 8 June 2023, 
explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. I asked for responses by 22 June 
2023. No further submissions were received from Mr A or BOS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further submissions or arguments from either party, I remain of the 
opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ive set out my reasoning again below.
Im satisfied from everything Ive been provided with, that Mr A is the executor of his late 
mothers estate, and the person authorised by law to bring the complaint to this service. And 
that the bank account the complaint relates to, is not his own account, but an executors 
bank account set up for the purposes of receiving the proceeds of his late mothers estate. 
The crux of the complaint relates to the difficulties and delays Mr A encountered in making 
payments from the executors bank account to beneficiaries of his late mothers will. Its not 
in dispute that BOS is responsible for delays in Mr A being able to make payments from the 
executors bank account. So, I dont need to make any findings on whether BOS caused any 
delays, as it accepts that it did. 
I can understand the difficulties and delays Mr A encountered as a result of BOS mistakes, 
must have been very frustrating for him. In this situation Mr A wasnt acting in a personal 
capacity, but as Ive outlined above, as the executor of his late mothers estate. And for the 
purposes of this complaint, he isnt the eligible complainant. So, hes bringing the complaint 
on her behalf as the executor and person authorised in law to do so. As a result, I cant 
compensate Mr A in his capacity as executor, for any distress or inconvenience incurred by 
him personally, in representing his late mothers estate.
Mr As main concerns also seems to be to ensure that other customers of BOS dont have a 
similar experience to the one that he had. I understand why, given the experience hes had, 
that he would want to do that. But I can only make awards of compensation, where 
appropriate, when an eligible complainant has suffered a financial loss. And its not my role 
to tell a business such as BOS how it should administer and run departments in its 
organisation. I can only consider what has happened in an individual complaint. It would be a 
matter for the Financial Conduct Authority as the regulator of BOS, to consider whether any 
action needed to be taken in respect of any of BOS systems or processes. Those issues are 
outside of my jurisdiction to consider.
Mr A has also said that the beneficiaries may have lost out on interest for the period of the 
delay. That may be the case. But I havent been provided with any evidence as to what loss 
of interest (if any) was incurred, where the interest claimed could have been obtained, and 
what happened to the monies paid out from the executors bank account. So, I simply dont 
have enough information to safely decide that any financial losses were incurred.  
BOS has said it paid £80 into the executor bank account. Our investigator recommended it 
pay another £70 to Mr A. I cant comment on the appropriateness of that compensation 
because for the reasons Ive explained, I cant award compensation to Mr A. Its open to him 
to contact BOS to see if the offer is still open for acceptance, if he wants to accept it.
I do understand that Mr A has been very frustrated by what has happened. And I am sure 
that he will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope he will understand why Im unable 
to take the actions that he would like me to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms A 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman