DRN-1399076
The complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide Building Society unfairly reserved funds on her account 
even after a payment had been debited.
What happened
Ms F had a debit card with Nationwide. She used the card to make online purchases from a 
merchant. In this decision Ill refer to the merchant as X. She says that when she made 
several online purchases at the same time, Nationwide continued to reserve the funds on 
her account even after the payment was debited. As a result, her available balance was 
reduced. She says this meant that sometimes she was left with no access to the money in 
her account. And, she says her card has been declined because of this.
Ms F complained to Nationwide about the problem several times during 2019. 
Nationwide investigated her complaints. It says she first raised this matter with it in March 
2019. At that time, it wasnt sure where the problem lay and so it paid her £25 by way of 
compensation. It says the problem arose when Ms F purchased more than one item from X 
at the same time. When this happened the total amount remained reserved on its system 
even after the individual amounts had been debited. 
Nationwide says it explained to Ms F that it couldnt automatically remove the reservation but 
if she contacted it, it would remove the reservation. Nationwide apologised to Ms F and paid 
her £100 by way of compensation for whatd happened.
Ms F wasnt happy with this response, so she complained to our service. Our investigator 
looked into her complaint. She said that the problem had been ongoing for a long period of 
time. She thought that as a result Ms F had been caused trouble and upset and she thought 
Nationwide should pay her a further £100 by way of compensation to reflect this.
Nationwide didnt agree. It said that whilst it appreciated the situation was frustrating for Ms 
F she had been aware of the ongoing issue and the manual workaround that it had 
suggested. It thought an additional £100 compensation was unwarranted.
Because Nationwide didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Ms Fs statement of account and I can see that she often made online 
purchases from X. And I can understand why she may have wanted to purchase more than 
one item at the same time when she shopped at X. She was entitled to do that. So, I dont 
think its fair or reasonable when she did this for her available funds to be impacted in the 
way that has occurred.
Ms F says this problem has happened more than seven times in 2019. I can see that she 
raised a complaint in March 2019. She then raised further complaints in June and 
September.  
Nationwide told Ms F in July that when she purchased multiple items at the same time from 
X, she could contact it and it would be able to clear the reservation. This is the manual 
workaround that its referred to. But the manual workaround can take up to two business 
days to complete. So, in the meantime, Ms F didnt have access to her funds. Nationwide 
says that if she wanted to avoid this happening she shouldnt have purchased more than one 
item at a time when shopping with X. 
Each of the options suggested by Nationwide created inconvenience for Ms F. And its also 
the case that if she purchased more than one item at the same time, she wouldnt have had 
access to her funds until the reservation was lifted which could be two days later. This meant 
that on occasion her available funds were less than they shouldve been. I can also see that  
sometimes her card was declined because of the reservation of funds. 
Ive thought about the trouble and inconvenience Ms F has been caused. I agree with our 
investigator that this was an ongoing issue. It wasnt a one-off event. And, even though 
Nationwide had suggested a workaround, there was still a delay before Ms F could access 
her funds. On occasions this meant that her card was declined.
In these circumstances I think the additional £100 compensation which our investigator has 
suggested is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society, and 
I require it to:
Pay Ms F an additional £100 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman