DRN-4195724
The complaint
Mr B complains through a representative that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat) provided him with loans without carrying out appropriate 
affordability checks. 
What happened
Mr B was granted two loans by MoneyBoat, and Ive outlined a summary of his borrowing 
history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 19/03/2022 29/04/2022 2 £115.57
2 £1,500.00 15/05/2022 open 6 £417.21
MoneyBoat says as of February 2023 an outstanding balance remains due for loan two. 
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr Bs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She said MoneyBoat 
had reasonable grounds to believe Mr B could afford the loans because it had carried out 
proportionate checks. 
Mr B, through is representative didnt agree, he said his bank statements - which he 
provided showed multiple loans being advanced and he had defaults on his credit file. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr B could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Bs 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
Mr B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr B. The adjudicator didnt consider it 
reached that point in the lending relationship where this applied and I agree, as there were 
only two loans. 
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr B was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude those 
repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Bs complaint.
Before each loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr B for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,166 per month for both loans. MoneyBoat says the declared income 
figures were checked by cross referencing information through a third-party report provided 
by a credit reference agency.   
Mr B also declared monthly outgoings as £370 when loan one was advanced and £450 
when loan two was advanced. For both loans Mr B declared only £150 per month for rent / 
mortgage which in some situations ought to be considered too low and further enquires 
wouldve needed to have been made. 
However, MoneyBoat has said that as part of his application he declared he lived with 
parents. And as such, I do think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to believe that he did 
indeed have a larger amount of disposable income and that there was a smaller risk of Mr B 
having problems repaying priority bills and would explain the modest rent / mortgage figure. 
As part of the application, MoneyBoat used information from its credit searches and from the 
Common Financial Statement to adjust the declared expenditure Mr B had provided. As a 
result, of this check, Mr Bs monthly expenditure was increased by a further £480 per month 
for loan one and a further £400 for loan two. After carrying out these checks, Mr B potentially 
had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he had to make. 
Before each loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that although MoneyBoat carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory 
requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having reviewed the credit check results, there isnt anything in them that wouldve indicated 
that Mr B was having current financial difficulties, for example it knew there were no current 
insolvency markers or debt management plans. And for each loan it knew that Mr B hadnt 
defaulted on any account within the last year. 
However, there were clear signs that between July 2019 and March 2020 Mr B had 
significant financial difficulties because there were eight defaults recorded in this period. And 
while one default had been settled and some were with debt collection agencies, I dont think 
these defaults alone wouldve prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks. 
I say this because since the last default had been recorded, around two years before these 
loans were advanced there hadnt been any further adverse information reported by other 
creditors. According to the credit report, Mr B only had three open accounts at the time of 
loan one  a credit card, a hire purchase (HP) account and a current account. And none of 
these accounts had any adverse information reported about them. 
So, I do think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have concluded that whatever the financial 
difficulties Mr B had experienced in the not too distance past had now been resolved 
because he was up to date with his current repayments. I would also add that given the 
general marketplace that MoneyBoat operates in, it wouldnt expect to always see an 
immaculate credit file.
The credit search for loan two showed MoneyBoat similar results as it was given for loan one 
 which isnt surprising.  Except, this time, the HP account had been settled and there was a 
new credit card being reported. However, at the time the search was carried out 
Mr B hadnt used any of the balance of the new credit card  according to the credit search 
results. 
There was some indication that perhaps since the start of 2022, Mr B may have been 
advanced some payday loans. But these had been repaid without apparent difficulties and 
there wasnt anything to suggest that Mr B had outstanding payday loan(s) when loan two 
was advanced.  
In addition, loan one was repaid as expected. So, there wasnt anything solely from the way 
these loans were managed, which wouldve shown MoneyBoat that Mr B was having or 
likely having financial difficulties. 
Ive also considered that loan two was for much larger sum than loan one, but I do think, 
given what else MoneyBoat knew about Mr B that it was just around reasonable for it to have 
relied on the income and expenditure information and the credit search results before 
approving the loan. 
Which has led me to conclude that there wasnt enough in the information that Ive seen that 
wouldve led MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as 
verifying the information Mr B had provided. So, while Mr B has provided copy bank 
statements, in this case, it wouldve been disproportionate for MoneyBoat to have asked for 
them when it carried out its affordability assessment for both loans.  
Given the evidence provided, I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to have relied on the 
information Mr B gave about his income and expenditure to show he had sufficient 
disposable income as well as the credit check results to show he could afford the repayments he was committed to making. And there wasnt anything to suggest that the 
loans would be unsustainable for Mr B either. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
for him and based on the information provided, an outstanding balance likely remains due 
and I would remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat Mr B fairly and with forbearance. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman