DRN-2062644
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way Bank of Scotland plc handled things after she made it
aware that she had been the victim of a scam. 
Background
On 17 December 2018, Mrs M was called by a fraudster who purported to be from Inland 
Revenue. She was told that she owed £1,483 for tax evasion and that somebody had 
already been to her door twice looking for her. Mrs M was given the name of an individual 
who she was told was dealing with her case to send the money to. Believing what the 
fraudster had told her, Mrs M sent the payment through her mobile banking at 12:30.
Mrs M was then informed that her account had been audited and she needed to pay a 
further £3,998 in order to avoid going to Court. She was told the first payment shed made 
would be refunded. Mrs M attempted to make this second payment, also by bank transfer 
through her mobile banking, but it was stopped by Bank of Scotland for checks. Mrs M says 
the fraudster told her to call Bank of Scotland and say that the payment was for a family 
emergency and a bill.
Mrs M called Bank of Scotland at 14:05, with the fraudster still on another line and said the 
stopped payment was for a bill. At 14:10, following some further questions by Bank of 
Scotland, the payment was released. After Mrs Ms call with Bank of Scotland, the fraudster 
told her shed sent the money to the wrong account and told Mrs M to call the bank back, 
which she did. While on this call, the fraudster hung up on Mrs M and it was at this point Mrs 
M realised she may have been scammed. She called Bank of Scotlands fraud department to 
raise a fraud claim at 14:31.
Bank of Scotland raised an indemnity with the receiving bank for the second payment, of 
£3,998, and the payment was successfully recovered and returned to Mrs M on                  
31 December 2018. However, Bank of Scotland didnt try to recover the payment of £1,483 
until 1 February 2019. Mrs M made a complaint about how her claim was handled  she said 
that Bank of Scotlands website suggests it takes payments two hours to leave an account, 
whereas her funds were gone within ten minutes and that the Police had made arrests 
relating to the scam.
Bank of Scotland accepted it caused delays and offered £75 in compensation as an apology. 
Bank of Scotland explained that it was still waiting for the receiving bank to confirm when 
exactly Mrs Ms funds left the beneficiary account. Bank of Scotland accepted that if the 
funds had still been in the receiving account at the point Mrs M reported the scam, it would 
be liable for Mrs Ms loss.
Mrs M was unhappy with the response from Bank of Scotland and so contacted this service.
Her complaint was looked at by an investigator who didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt 
consider the payment of £1,483 to be unusual enough that it shouldve been identified as 
potential fraud and stopped by Bank of Scotland. However, she thought that Bank of 
Scotland shouldve questioned Mrs M further during her initial call made at 14:05, when she 
was attempting to make the payment of £3,998, and that had it done so, it wouldve identified 
at this point that Mrs M was being scammed. 
The investigator confirmed with the beneficiary bank that Mrs Ms funds had been withdrawn 
on 17 December 2018 sometime between 12:06 and 14:17  unfortunately it wasnt able to 
give a precise time. The investigator determined that had Bank of Scotland identified Mrs M 
was being scammed during this initial call, this still didnt leave enough time for it to take all 
necessary details from Mrs M, raise a fraud claim and for the receiving bank to take action 
before the funds were withdrawn by the fraudster. The investigator therefore concluded that 
Bank of Scotlands delays didnt affect the outcome of her fraud claim. She also confirmed 
that Bank of Scotlands terms state payments take no more than two hours to reach a 
receiving account, so didnt think Bank of Scotland had acted outside of its terms. She also 
thought the offer of compensation Bank of Scotland had made was fair.
Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said the offer of compensation was 
too low. She made reference to a new agreement that major banks are following. The 
investigator explained that the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, that she 
understood Mrs M to be referring to, didnt come into effect until after Mrs Ms scam had 
occurred and so did not apply to her case. 
Because Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an authorised payment even though Mrs M was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. She requested for the payment to be made so, although she did not intend the money 
to go to a fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and 
conditions of her account, Mrs M is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Bank 
of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Bank of Scotland acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Mrs M when she carried out this payment to a fraudster, or whether it should
have done more than it did.Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mrs M, and I can understand entirely why she feels
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully
about Bank of Scotlands actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing the 
payment of £1,483 to be made from Mrs Ms account. I also think its more likely than not 
that Bank of Scotland wouldnt have been successful in recovering Mrs Ms money had it 
contacted the beneficiary bank without delay, at the point that it ought to have had concerns. 
So I cant fairly say Bank of Scotland should reimburse Mrs M the payment she lost to the 
fraudster. Ill explain why.
Mrs M has accepted that she authorised the payment of £1,483 herself. Because of this, 
Bank of Scotland had an obligation to follow her instruction. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
payment - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Bank of Scotland 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
I dont consider the transfer Mrs M made was particularly unusual or out of character in 
comparison to Mrs Ms typical account activity. I say this as having reviewed Mrs Ms 
account activity for the 10-month period leading up to the scam, I can see six other 
transactions or bank transfers of more than £1,000. I therefore dont think Bank of Scotland 
acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about the transaction before processing it.
However, I do think that when Mrs M called Bank of Scotland at 14:05 to process her second 
transfer, while it warned Mrs M about fraudsters coercing people into making payments, it 
didnt ask enough probing or follow-up questions in order to test the information Mrs M 
provided about the purpose of the payment. Mrs M told the call handler that the reason for 
the payment was to pay a bill, but also that she knew the individual being paid on a personal 
level. Mrs M said shed paid the individual before, despite it being a new payee set up that 
day. The reference provided was also taxes. As HMRC scams are well known to banks, I 
think these points combined were sufficient for Bank of Scotland to give a more tailored 
scam warning than the one provided and ask additional questions. Had it done so, and 
based on Mrs M being given only a vague cover story by the fraudster, I think Mrs Ms cover 
story wouldve unravelled and Bank of Scotland wouldve realised this was a scam.
Mrs Ms second payment to the fraudster has already been returned to Mrs M by the 
receiving bank - but I need to consider whether, had Bank of Scotland identified that Mrs M 
was a victim of fraud during this call, it could have acted in time for the first payment to be 
recovered as well. Having considered the evidence, Im not persuaded that Mrs Ms funds 
wouldve been available even if Bank of Scotland had acted straight away.
Mrs M called Bank of Scotland at 14:05 on 17 December 2018. The receiving bank has 
confirmed that, at the very latest, funds were withdrawn from the fraudsters account at 14:17 
 this of course means the funds could have been withdrawn earlier than this. However, 
even if the funds were still available at the point Mrs M called to process the second 
payment, that means that Bank of Scotland had, at the very most, 12 minutes to raise a 
fraud claim. 
From reviewing Mrs Ms call at 14:05 with Bank of Scotland, I think Bank of Scotland ought 
to have had concerns about this transfer request around four minutes into the call, based on 
Mrs Ms response to its questions Ive already mentioned. But Bank of Scotland would then 
have had to take details of the scam from Mrs M, log them on its system and contact the 
receiving bank. I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say it could realistically have been able 
to raise the claim within the short timeframe I have mentioned.I think this is supported by the call Bank of Scotland had with Mrs M at 14:31 where Mrs M 
did raise the fraud claim. From listening to this call, I can see that it took Bank of Scotland 
around 30 minutes to take Mrs Ms details and create a fraud reference. Therefore, had this 
conversation taken place at 14:05 instead (and bearing in mind Bank of Scotland wouldve 
first had to identify that this was a fraud claim at this point) I think its more likely than not the 
funds wouldve been removed from the beneficiary bank account, before Bank of Scotland 
wouldve notified the receiving bank of the scam. And Im mindful this is before considering 
the additional time the receiving bank wouldve needed to take action once the claim was 
received.
On this basis, while I agree Bank of Scotland didnt act how it shouldve when it first ought to 
have realised something was amiss, I think its more likely than not this hasnt impacted the 
overall success of returning Mrs Ms money to her  so I dont think Bank of Scotland should 
refund Mrs M the money she sadly lost. 
I understand that the delay in contacting the receiving bank, once Mrs M notified Bank of 
Scotland of the scam, wouldve caused additional stress to Mrs M while she waited for the 
outcome of her claim. But as she wouldve been in the same financial position regardless, I 
think £75 is fair compensation to acknowledge the upset Bank of Scotland has caused.
Ive considered Mrs Ms complaint that the money she sent to the fraudster left her account 
too quickly and that Bank of Scotlands website suggests payments take two hours to 
complete. I havent seen evidence of this, but having considered the terms of the account, as 
mentioned previously by the investigator, it states that a payment will reach a payees 
account normally no more than two hours after we take the payment from your account. I 
therefore think that the two hour timeframe Mrs M has referred to is a maximum period, 
rather than a minimum, and that Bank of Scotland followed the terms of her account when 
sending the payment to the receiving bank.
In relation to the CRM code that Mrs M has referred to, this came into effect on 28 May 2019 
and isnt retrospective. Therefore, as this scam occurred before the code came into effect, I 
cant take it into consideration when deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
I understand that there has been Police involvement relating to the fraudster in this 
complaint. In this case theres no dispute that Mrs M has been defrauded - what is in 
question is whether Bank of Scotland are liable for losses. Ive explained above why I dont 
think Bank of Scotland is liable  so while I hope it brings Mrs M some comfort to know that 
arrests have been made, this doesnt impact the outcome of my decision.
I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mrs M has been through here. But unfortunately, 
Im not persuaded that Bank of Scotland is responsible  so whilst Im sorry to have to 
disappoint her, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Bank of Scotland to refund the loss.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 December 2020.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman