DRN-3691315
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) rejected his claim under 
Section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) for a refund for holiday 
accommodation.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr M used his Nationwide credit card to pay the deposit for a holiday 
accommodation abroad, using a supplier who Ill refer to as P. He booked his flights 
separately, direct with the airline. His trip was scheduled for June 2020.
At the end of May 2020, Mr M was informed by the airline that his flights had been cancelled 
because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of this, Mr M contacted P to ask for his 
deposit back. P declined to refund Mr Ms deposit, explaining that their terms and conditions 
stated that, unless they or the accommodation owner cancelled the booking, the deposit 
wouldnt be refunded. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M asked Nationwide to help him recover the money. Nationwide 
responded a couple of months later and declined Mr Ms claim. They said the terms and 
conditions were clear that the deposit was non-refundable. Mr M remained unhappy and 
raised a complaint with Nationwide. Whilst he accepted Ps terms and conditions stated that 
the deposit was non-refundable, he thought this went against the Competition and Markets 
Authoritys (CMA) guidance that was issued to help consumers and businesses with 
concerns raised by the pandemic. Mr M said the guidance said suppliers such as P shouldnt 
withhold deposits even if their terms state its non-refundable, and in cases where this did 
happen, he felt his credit card supplier should step in. 
Nationwide responded to Mr M and didnt uphold his complaint. In their response they 
explained that they had considered the chargeback scheme rules as well as a S75 claim and 
felt that neither would be successful. They said Mr M didnt have any chargeback claim 
rights as the accommodation was still available to be used. In relation to S75, Nationwide 
said they didnt believe P had acted in breach of the contract between them and Mr M, nor 
had it been misrepresented, so a valid S75 claim didnt exist. 
Nationwide also addressed Mr Ms comments about the CMA guidance, and why they 
wouldnt be applying it. They said it stated in the CMA guidance that it was for guidance and 
opinion only and shouldnt be substituted for the law, and Nationwide would be following 
their current interpretation of existing laws as a result. 
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
Nationwide had acted fairly in not raising a chargeback claim in this instance, as the 
chargeback scheme rules confirmed a chargeback right didnt exist in this scenario so there 
was little chance of a claim being successful. She said she didnt think Nationwide had acted 
unfairly in declining Mr Ms S75 claim. She said that, whilst Mr M was unable to use the 
accommodation as he couldnt travel to it, the accommodation was still open and available. 
And Ps terms and conditions explained that the deposit wouldnt be refunded in this 
situation. Because of this, the investigator felt the contract between Mr M and P hadnt been 
breached or misrepresented. She acknowledged Mr Ms concerns about the CMA guidance, 
but explained that, even if it was felt the contract had been frustrated, that isnt a valid claim 
under S75.
Mr M didnt accept this. He said that he accepted the investigators strict definition of S75 
and how it had been applied, but he felt the CMA guidance should have led Nationwide to 
step in and help him out. He said that would have been a gesture of good customer practice 
as P had turned their back on him. 
As Mr M didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Chargeback
In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from the supplier through the 
chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved 
between cardholders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with under the relevant card 
scheme rules  in Mr Ms case that is Visa. In certain circumstances the process provides a 
way for Nationwide to ask for a payment Mr M made to be refunded. Those circumstances 
can include where goods or services arent received. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a customer asks for one. 
But Id consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and 
there is some prospect for success. 
In Mr Ms case Nationwide didnt raise a chargeback when he logged his S75 claim with 
them. And I can understand why. In May 2020 Visa issued updated guidance to help 
consumers and businesses with dispute resolution management during the COVID-19 
pandemic. This guidance included some common scenarios which they were seeing, and 
whether a chargeback right existed in those situations. One of the scenarios was:
Q: The cardholder purchased any goods/services (e.g. airline, hotel, concert) and 
was notified that due to government restrictions is now unable to use the 
goods/services, however the merchant is still able to provide goods/services. Is 
Dispute Condition 13.1  Merchandise/Services Not received valid?
No. The issuer does not have a dispute right. In this scenario, the merchant is willing 
and able to provide the goods/services and is entitled to be paid.
I know Mr M didnt cancel the holiday accommodation booking, and was unable to use it 
because of the pandemic, but the accommodation was still available. And as per the above 
Visa scheme rule no chargeback right exists in this situation. Because of that Im satisfied 
Nationwide acted fairly in not pursuing a chargeback claim for Mr M as there was little 
chance of it being successful.
Section 75
S75 of the CCA says that in certain circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement 
has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods or services. 
Mr M has accepted that Ps terms and conditions state that his deposit wont be refunded if 
the accommodation isnt used. Hes also accepted the investigators interpretation of S75, 
but he feels the CMA guidance should be taken into account by Nationwide as P have 
refused to follow it. Mr M believes that his contract with P has been frustrated and, as per the 
CMA guidance issued in August 2020, hes entitled to a full refund from them.
I think here its important to explain that I am only looking at how Nationwide have dealt with 
Mr Ms S75 claim, and if theyve dealt with it fairly. The CMA guidance Mr M is referring to 
may well apply to P, as the supplier of the accommodation he wasnt able to make use of, 
but P isnt part of our jurisdiction and I wont be commenting on their actions in this decision.
There isnt anything in the CMA guidance that suggests a credit card supplier should step in 
if the guidance isnt followed. Further, because of the way S75 operates, Nationwide 
wouldnt be liable for a frustrated contract. A frustrated contract isnt one thats been 
breached. Nationwides remit under a S75 claim is to consider whether there has been a 
breach of contract, or if the contract between Mr M and P has been misrepresented. And in 
this case, Mr M has already accepted that Ps terms and conditions havent been breached. I 
agree with him here, and I cant say Nationwide have acted unreasonably by declining his 
S75 claim for his deposit to be refunded. 
Mr M has suggested that Nationwide should help as a matter of good customer practice, as 
P have turned their back on him. That is a matter for Nationwide to consider, and it seems in 
this case they arent prepared to. Its for Nationwide to determine how they reward customer 
loyalty or make any gestures of goodwill or good practice  that isnt something our service 
will interfere with. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M, and I understand that he feels he is out of 
pocket for reasons outside of his control, but I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything 
here. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman