DRN-2065875
The complaint
Miss W complains about 21 instalment loans that she took out with Gain Credit LLC, trading 
as Lending Stream, (LS), which she said were unaffordable. This complaint has been 
brought to this service on Miss Ws behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I 
shall refer below to all actions being taken by Miss W.
What happened
This complaint is about 21 short term loans LS provided to Miss W between April 2013 and 
August 2017. Loan 1 was repayable by five monthly instalments and the rest of the loans 
were repayable by six monthly instalments, but Miss W repaid some of the loans earlier than 
the due date. At times Miss W had up to five loans outstanding at the same time. All the 
loans are shown as having been repaid although a small amount appears to have been 
written off by LS for Loan 21. Miss Ws lending history is as follows:
Loan number Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan 
amount 
1. 14/4/13 28/8/13 £115
2. 10/8/13 15/1/14 £260
3. 14/8/15 10/2/16 £150
4. 21/8/15 29/1/16 £50
5. 1/12/15 4/5/16 £300
6. 29/1/16 1/6/16 £130
7. 28/3/16 27/7/16 £200
8. 21/6/16 19/10/16 £400
9. 18/7/16 19/10/16 £200
10. 9/9/16 19/10/16 £200
11. 7/10/16 19/10/16 £180
12. 13/10/16 4/12/16 £120
13. 30/12/16 15/5/17 £250
14. 6/1/17 28/6/17 £100
15. 29/1/17 26/7/17 £200
16. 28/5/17 15/11/17 £200
17. 18/6/17 27/11/17 £150
18. 25/6/17 27/11/17 £50
19. 8/7/17 27/11/17 £100
20. 5/8/17 27/11/17 £100
21. 31/8/17 27/11/17 £100
Miss W said that LS ought to have known that she could not afford to repay the payday 
loans, and / or that in order to repay the payday loans, she would have to borrow further 
loans (often from other payday lenders) in order to make the repayments, which resulted in 
trapping her in a debt spiral. 
Our adjudicator noted that there were two lending chains. She recommended that Miss Ws 
complaint about Loans 8 to 21 should be upheld. She said that by Loan 8, Miss Ws overall 
pattern of borrowing suggested she had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. 
The adjudicator thought it wouldve been clear to a responsible lender that the loans
werent being used for what they were intended for and were becoming unsustainable. 
In her view, the pattern of lending itself showed that the loans from here were unsustainable. 
So, she didnt think LS should have given Miss W Loans 8 to 21.
LS hasnt provided a response to the adjudicators view.
As this complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When LS lent Loans 1 and 2 to Miss W the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG). 
The ILG contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
When LS lent Loans 3 to 21 to Miss W the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). 
The ILG and CONC contained similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending.
LS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss W could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish whether 
Miss W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties 
and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ws complaint.
As Ive said above, Miss Ws first loan was repayable by five monthly instalments and her 
other loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. So, the amounts that Miss W needed 
to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal payday loan. But she was also 
committing to making those repayments over a far longer period. In addition, Miss W 
sometimes had a number of loans outstanding at the same time. So, Ive considered the 
total amount that Miss W needed to repay to LS each month. 
LS did a number of checks before it lent to Miss W. I can see that it asked Miss W for details 
of her monthly income and expenditure and it carried out credit checks. Ive seen brief 
results from LSs credit checks and shall refer to these below.
It doesnt appear that weve received Miss Ws credit report. So, I cant say there was 
anything on that report which should have caused additional concerns to LS.
Before Loans 1 and 2, Miss Ws declared income was £1,100. Miss Ws declared 
expenditure as adjusted by LS was between £450 and £510. 
I can see that LSs credit checks for Miss Ws first two loans showed that she had four active 
accounts. She also had three defaulted accounts from more than 30 months prior to Loan 1. 
Given the length of time since the accounts had defaulted, I think that LS might have 
reasonably thought that Miss Ws finances had moved on from whatever situation had 
caused the accounts to be defaulted. And I dont think it was unreasonable for LS to be 
interested in Miss Ws more recent credit history for the purposes of assessing whether the 
loans were affordable. Otherwise I dont think that LSs credit checks before Loans 1 and 2 
should have caused it additional concerns. 
I can also see that the repayments that Miss W needed to make on Loans 1 and 2 were 
relatively modest compared to the income that she declared to LS. I dont think the 
repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused 
Miss W financial difficulty.
So, given Miss Ws repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2 and that these was her first loans 
with LS, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable. And at this stage, I 
dont think it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Miss W was saying.  So, I 
dont think LS was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to Miss W.
When Miss W repaid Loan 2 there was then a gap of around 17 months before she asked to 
borrow again. I think that gap was long enough to give LS some confidence that Miss W had 
overcome whatever problems had caused her to borrow in the past. So, I think LS was 
entitled to treat Miss W as a new customer when she asked for Loan 3 and base its checks 
accordingly.
 I can see that LSs credit checks for Loan 3 dont refer to the three defaulted accounts Id 
mentioned above. But these are referred to in the checks for Loans 4 to 12. So, it seems 
there is an error in the credit check before Loan 3. In any event, given the length of time 
since the accounts had defaulted, I think that LS might have reasonably thought that       
Miss Ws finances had moved on from whatever situation had caused the accounts to be 
defaulted.  Otherwise I dont think that LSs credit checks should have caused it additional 
concerns. 
Miss W needed to make a highest total monthly loan repayment of around £85 to LS for 
Loans 3 and 4. I think the repayment amounts were relatively moderate compared to      
Miss Ws disposable income on Loans 3 and 4. So, I think that the checks LS did before 
agreeing Loans 3 and 4 were proportionate. Given Miss Ws loan repayment amounts, what 
was apparent about her circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history with the lender, 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for LS to ask her for the amount of information 
that would be needed to show Loans 3 and 4 were unsustainable before agreeing these 
loans. So, I dont think LS was wrong to give Loans 3 and 4 to Miss W.
But by the time Miss W applied for Loan 5 around three months after applying for Loan 4, I 
think that LS should have realised that it couldnt safely rely on the information shed 
provided about her financial situation. Shed been borrowing from LS for almost four months 
and Loans 3 and 4 were still outstanding. The loan amount on Loan 5 and total repayment 
amounts had also significantly increased. I think this might have caused LS some concerns 
and should have prompted the lender to supplement the information it held by gathering 
information about Miss Ws borrowing from other short term lenders. As far as I can see it 
didnt do this. 
We asked Miss W for copies of her bank statements so we could see what better checks 
would have shown LS. She didnt provide these to us. So, Im not able to say that better 
checks would have shown LS that it shouldnt have lent to Miss W from Loan 5 onwards. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of LSs lending history with Miss W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which LS should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, LS should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ws case, I think that this point was reached by 
Loan 8. I say this because:
By Loan 8, Miss W had been borrowing from LS for over ten months with no gaps in 
her borrowing. I think this indicated that Miss W was becoming dependent on this 
type of borrowing.
Miss W wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts she owed LS. The amount of 
Loan 8 was her highest yet. And Miss W had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to LS over an extended period.
Miss W took out Loan 8 whilst she was still repaying Loan 7. I think by this time   
Miss Ws pattern of borrowing suggested that she was facing significant problems 
managing her money and needing to refinance loans on a regular basis.
I can see that as LS didnt stop lending at this point, Miss W went on to take out a further 13 
high cost loans for around another 14 months. And Miss Ws borrowing pattern was largely 
unchanged. She often had multiple loans active at the same time.I think that Miss W lost out because LS continued to provide borrowing from Loan 8 
onwards. These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ws indebtedness by 
allowing her to continue to have expensive credit intended for short term use over an 
extended period of time. The number of loans, and length of time she'd been borrowing, was 
likely to have had negative implications on Miss Ws ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high cost loans. And the fact that all the loans were 
repaid doesnt mean that they were repaid sustainably, or without causing Miss W undue 
difficulty. 
I also think that when a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As LS will know, the FCA made it clear in a letter to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So, I dont think LS should have given Miss W Loans 8 to 21, and I think it needs to pay  
Miss W some compensation relating to these loans. So, LS should put things right as shown 
below. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Miss W compensation and take 
the steps set out below:
Refund all interest and charges Miss W paid on Loans 8 to 21;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*; and
Remove all entries about Loans 8 to 21 from Miss Ws credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest. LS must give Miss W 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman