DRN-3997658
The complaint
Mrs V and Mr W complain about British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) and their failure to 
repair a leak connected to their central heating system in March 2021. Mrs V and Mr W are 
unhappy that BGI are now refusing to pay for the repairs needed to fix a hole in their ceiling.
Mrs V has acted as the main representative during the claim and complaint process. So, for 
ease of reference, I will refer to any comments made, and actions taken by either Mrs V or 
Mr W as Mrs V throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs V held an insurance policy designed to cover their boiler and central heating system 
which was underwritten by BGI.
In late 2020, Mrs V noticed a leak coming from the area her boiler was located, which was 
causing a stain on the ceiling below. Mrs V says she initially made BGI aware in November 
2020, but no repair was completed at this time. So, she contacted BGI again in March 2021, 
and BGI agreed to send an engineer to the property.
The engineer attended and was unable to identify a leak from the boiler. So, BGIs attending 
engineer advised a plumber would be required. Mrs V says she was under the impression 
BGI would be arranging for a plumber to attend, but she heard nothing further. So, some 
weeks later, her husband cut a hole in the ceiling in an attempt to identify the leak himself. 
No further action was taken to repair the leak until Mrs V reported the leak again to BGI in 
March 2022. And at some point during the following months, the leak was located and 
repaired. But Mrs V was unhappy that it had taken so long to repair the leak. And due to this 
delay, Mrs V felt additional damage had been caused to her ceiling, including the need for 
her husband to make access in the ceiling himself. So, Mrs V wanted BGI to cover the costs 
of the repairs needed to the ceiling.
BGI responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought they acted fairly when not 
repairing the leak in March 2021, as they thought the leak was likely caused due to sludge 
being present in the central heating system. They explained any damage caused by sludge, 
where Mrs V had been told previously to carry out a power flush, wouldnt be covered under 
the policy. So, as they didnt think they had caused the leak and it was instead linked to the 
sludge, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong and so, didnt think they needed to do 
anything more. Mrs V remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it, providing two separate views 
explaining why. They thought BGI had acted fairly in March 2021, as they were satisfied a 
power flush had been directed and not carried out. And despite some confusion regarding 
when the pipe was repaired, and by whom, our investigator didnt think they were able to say 
BGI were entirely responsible for the damage to the ceiling. So, they didnt think BGI needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs V didnt agree, providing extensive comments detailing why. These included, and are 
not limited to, her belief the power flush wasnt required as when she arranged for this to be 
done in the summer of 2022, the completing engineer explained the water was clear and not 
black as he wouldve expected. So, she didnt think BGI were fair when relying on this 
exclusion. Mrs V maintained her belief that BGI had failed to arrange for a repair to the leak 
in 2021 unfairly, as they stated she didnt have plumbing cover when the pipe was included 
within the scope of the boiler policy. And she felt if the repair had been completed sooner, 
the damage to her ceiling couldve been prevented. As Mrs V didnt agree, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs V. Ive been provided 
with photos that show the damage to the ceiling and Ive no doubt it would be both 
uncomfortable and inconvenient living with it on a day-to-day basis.
And as Mrs Vs husband created the hole following BGIs unsuccessful attendance to repair 
the leak, I can understand why Mrs V would feel as though the hole and the other associated 
damage was the fault of BGI and so, why BGI should be responsible for its repair.
But for me to say BGI should repair the damage to the ceiling or cover the costs of this repair 
if Mrs V arranged this separately, I first need to be satisfied BGI have done something 
wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied that BGI failed to act in line with the terms of the policy 
Mrs V held when processing the claims relating to the leak. And, if I think they did fail to act 
within these terms, or that BGI acted unfairly in some other way, I need to be satisfied the 
damage caused to the ceiling was solely the fault, and responsibility of BGI. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
I think its very important for me to make clear that, due to the time that has passed since 
BGIs attendance in 2021, its been difficult for me to obtain a complete and clear 
understanding of what has happened, and when. BGI have confirmed the attending engineer 
no longer works for them, so theyve been unable to obtain the engineers recollections and 
because of this, Ive only the attendance notes to consider.
And I recognise that, while Ive no doubt Mrs V has attempted to provide her most accurate 
recollection of events, due to the time that has passed Mrs V has been unable to confirm 
exact dates and what happened at what time. For example, Mrs V has stated BGI attended 
her property to assess the leak in late 2020, but Ive seen no evidence to show this 
attendance occurred. And I also recognise there has been clear confusion surrounding when 
the leak was fixed, and by whom. Although I do note it appears the leak has been resolved 
at some point during 2022.
So, due to the lack of clarity and confusion in parts, my decision is centred around what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information I have and based on 
the balance of probabilities. This may mean that both BGI and Mrs V are unhappy with 
certain assumptions Ive made but Ive made these to ensure the decision Ive reached is a 
fair one, to the best of my ability.BGI have stated the leak wasnt repaired in March 2021, as the leak was most likely caused 
due to sludge build up in the heating system. Whereas Mrs V says she was told a plumber 
was needed and that BGI would arrange for a plumber to attend, but this didnt happen.
As Ive explained above, I cant say for certain what was said on the attendance in March 
2021. But what I do know is the leak wasnt fixed at that time. I can see from the attendance 
notes a plumber was discussed, but I cant see that BGI agreed they would arrange for this 
attendance.
BGI say they wouldnt have arranged for a plumber to attend, as they felt the leak was likely 
caused due to sludge in the system. Ive seen the terms of Mrs Vs policy that explains under 
the heading what is not covered that BGI wouldnt repair any damage caused by 
limescale, sludge and other debris, if weve told you before that you need to carry out 
repairs, improvements or a British Gas power flush, or a similar process, but you havent 
done so.
And Ive seen in the attendance notes that Mrs V was told a power flush was needed due to 
sludge on attendances in both 2019 and 2020. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs V 
arranged for this power flush until the summer of 2022, after the leak had appeared.
So, I do think BGI were able to decline a claim for any repairs, such as the repair needed to 
fix the leak, if BGI felt the leak was likely caused by sludge in the system. BGI have provided 
a detailed technical explanation of why they think the pressure caused by the sludge 
wouldve caused the pipe to crack, considering the increased risk of corrosion the presence 
of sludge brings. Im not an expert on heating systems, and its not my role to decide 
whether or not I agree with BGIs opinion. But I do think the explanation BGI have provided 
seems both plausible and reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs V doesnt agree, and shes provided her own comments explaining why. I 
also recognise the comments shes made regarding the engineer who completed a power 
flush in 2022, and the colour of the water during the flush. But Mrs V hasnt provided me with 
any evidence relating to this power flush, such as a report from the attending engineer. So, 
without this, I think its reasonable for me to rely on the technical explanation provided by 
BGI, as they have greater expertise in the area.
Because of this, I dont think Im able to say BGI acted unfairly when not repairing the leak in 
March 2021, based on the sludge exclusion included within the terms of the policy.
And even if I decided differently, I dont think this means it would automatically follow that 
BGI should repair, or cover the costs of the repair, for the damage to the ceiling. Mrs V has 
accepted the access hole was made by her husband. While I appreciate why Mrs V and her 
husband felt this was necessary, I think it was their own decision to damage the ceiling to 
make access.
I can see within the terms of the policy Mrs V held, it explains that BGI responsibilities 
included making access to your appliance system, and then repairing any damage we may 
cause in doing so. Crucially, this explains BGI would repair any damage they caused when 
making access. And BGI didnt make access, Mrs Vs husband did. So, I dont think BGI are 
obligated to cover the repair to the access hole.
I also recognise that Mrs V says she was first aware of the leak in November 2020. But Ive 
seen no evidence to show she sought an attendance from BGI until March 2021. And then, 
when a plumber wasnt arranged by BGI as Mrs V says she thought would happen, Ive seen 
nothing to suggest Mrs V arranged for her own plumber to attend to fix the leak until she 
made BGI aware of this again in March 2022. And I note BGI attended to fix other heating issues in 2021, while Mrs V also arranged for a new boiler to be fitted entirely during this 
time.
So, I think there were times where Mrs V was aware a leak was present but didnt take steps 
to ensure the leak was fixed. And I think its reasonable for me to assume during these 
times, the damage to Mrs Vs ceiling worsened. While I appreciate Mrs V assumed BGI 
would send a plumber, when this didnt happen I wouldve expected Mrs V to chase this with 
BGI. But I cant see that she did. So, I dont think I can say for certain a plumber was ever 
promised by BGI.
So, I dont think I can fairly say that all of the damage caused to Mrs Vs ceiling was caused 
by mistakes BGI made. And because of this, I dont think I can fairly say that BGI should pay 
to repair this damage, as this would place Mrs V in a position of betterment as she would 
receive repairs to damage that I dont think BGI were responsible for under the terms of the 
policy.
Because of all the points Ive discussed above, I dont think it would be fair for me to say BGI 
should do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs V was hoping for. And I want to recognise some of 
BGIs actions has likely caused confusion and made the situation for Mrs V worse. I can see 
they have since fixed the leak, and BGI have confirmed this was done in error by an 
engineer who hadnt looked at the previous notes. 
I think this directly contradicted the initial advice BGI provided and so, I do think this has led 
Mrs V to believe BGI have done something wrong. But crucially, in this situation, I think 
BGIs mistake in repairing the leak has placed Mrs V in an advantageous position, as the 
leak has been repaired at no cost to herself. And I dont think the actions BGI took after 
March 2021 impact the fact that, at the time, the leak was deemed to be as a result of sludge 
in the system. And that Mrs V had been made aware of the sludge, and the need for a power 
flush, before this date. So, I dont think BGI need to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs V and Mr Ws complaint about British 
Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman