DRN-1995706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society has not fairly compensated them for the    
mis-sale of a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Mr and Mrs M say they couldnt make a claim on the PPI policy when Mr M lost his job, and 
that caused them to lose their home. They say the house was subsequently sold for £44,000 
below its market value. Mr and Mrs M want to be compensated for this.
What happened
In this decision I am looking at the compensation paid by Nationwide for the mis-sale of the 
PPI policy. I will look at the way it has been calculated and if it is fair.
I will also consider if Nationwide should pay additional compensation for consequential 
losses suffered by Mr and Mrs M due to the sale of the policy.
In this decision I will not be considering whether Nationwide sold the house for below its 
market value or how Nationwide dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms financial difficulties. That is the 
subject of a separate complaint and is being dealt with under a separate reference number.
Around April 1996 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage with Nationwide to purchase their 
home. At the same time they were sold a PPI policy. From what Ive seen they paid PPI 
premiums from September 1996 to September 1999. The premiums were around £8.60 per 
month. With the passing of time, there are few other details of the policy available. It isnt 
clear what or who the policy covered or the level of benefit it offered. The policy insurer has 
no records of the policy or of any claim made by Mr M.
Mr and Mrs M say that in April 1999 Mr M lost his job and made an unemployment claim on 
the policy. The claim was declined. Mr and Mrs M then got into arrears on their mortgage 
and the house was ultimately repossessed and sold.
In 2019 Nationwide wrote to Mr and Mrs M upholding their complaint that the policy was   
mis-sold. In its letter Nationwide offered compensation of £600.19 which was paid to Mr and     
Mrs M. 
Unhappy with Nationwides response Mr and Mrs M asked this service to step in.
An adjudicator from this service found that Nationwides offer of compensation was fair.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators findings and have asked for an ombudsman 
to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a monthly premium PPI  has been mis-sold wed usually expect a business to put the 
consumer back in the financial position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold to them.
To do this Id expect the business to refund all the premiums paid together with 
compensatory interest for the time the consumer has been out of pocket.
In this case I can see Nationwide has refunded the premiums it says Mr and Mrs M paid for 
the policy, this amounted to £253.97. Nationwide then added interest on each premium from 
when it was paid until when Mr and Mrs M got their money back. The interest was calculated 
at 8% simple which I think is a fair rate of interest. The interest totalled £346.22 net of tax. 
So the total paid to Mr and Mrs M was £600.19.
So Nationwide has refunded all the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs M and has added fair 
compensatory interest. So it has done what Id usually expect a business to do when a PPI 
policy like the one sold to Mr and Mrs M was mis-sold.
But Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide should pay further compensation as they lost their home 
because Mr Ms unemployment claim was declined by the policy insurer when he lost his job 
in 1999.
Ive thought carefully about this but I dont think Nationwide needs to pay any further 
compensation. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M so I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they made a claim in 1999 which was declined. The insurer has no 
records of the PPI policy and consequently has no record of the claim or why it was 
declined.
We also asked Mr and Mrs M for their recollection of why the claim was declined and how  
Mr M came to be unemployed but they have not provided this information.
So it is not possible for me to know after so  many years why the claim was declined. And 
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr and Mrs M complained to the insurer at the time about 
the declined claim.
But all PPI policies sold had some exclusions and restrictions for unemployment claims. And 
these were generally quite similar across all PPI policies sold at the time. For example they 
usually wouldnt provide cover for voluntary unemployment resulting from resignation, or for 
dismissal due to misconduct, or for temporary or casual work ending, or a fixed term contract 
coming to an end. So it could be that Mr M lost his job in circumstances that the PPI policy 
did not cover.
Mr and Mrs M have said they would have taken a different PPI policy if Nationwide had told 
them the PPI it sold them was unsuitable and didnt cover every scenario. But these types of 
PPI policy generally provided similar cover with broadly similar terms and conditions. I think 
it is very unlikely they would have found a different PPI policy available elsewhere that would 
have provided Mr M with significantly different cover for unemployment, and certainly it 
would not have been possible to buy a PPI policy that provided unemployment cover against 
every scenario. 
So even if Mr and Mrs M had bought a PPI policy from a different provider, in my view it is 
possible his claim would still have been declined.Mr and Mrs M have told us the mortgage advisor said the policy was compulsory. I cant 
know after so many years what was said in the meeting, but I note Mr and Mrs M have also 
told us they would not have taken a mortgage out without PPI.
 
In my view it is likely Mr and Mrs M approached Nationwide with the primary aim of  
obtaining a mortgage. So I think it is probable that if Nationwide had told them the policy was 
not suitable for them then they would probably have gone ahead with the mortgage without 
PPI. In which case Mr M would not have been able to make a claim when he became 
unemployed.
So in summary if Nationwide had not sold them the policy it did, I dont think Mr and Mrs M 
would have been able to buy a policy elsewhere which gave them significantly different 
cover. So I think they would have taken the mortgage without PPI. 
 
It follows that I dont think the mis-sale of the policy was the primary reason why Mr and    
Mrs M lost their home. The primary reason Mr and Mrs M fell into financial difficulty and 
ultimately lost their home was because Mr M became unemployed. So I dont think it would 
be fair for me to direct Nationwide to pay any further compensation for the mis-sale of the 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no further award against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman