DRN-3357781
The complaint
Mr L complains about Arrow Global Limiteds handling of his account. 
What happened
Mr L feels Arrow did not treat him fairly when he contacted them to say he was experiencing 
financial difficulties as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. And hes unhappy with their later 
decision to close his account and register a default on his credit file. 
Arrow responded to Mr Ls complaint. They said they had treated Mr L fairly by allowing a 
number of payment holidays and applied a further hold on his account for 90 days after his 
complaint. In the end, as Mr L wasnt able to repay what he owed the account was defaulted.
Our Investigator considered Mr Ls complaint. She said, in summary, she could see after 
Mr L had told Arrow he wouldnt be able to keep up with his agreed payments they allowed 
him a number of payment holidays in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)s 
guidance on assisting people in financial difficulty as a result of the pandemic. So she 
thought Mr L had been treated fairly. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said he was furloughed, had offered to make smaller payments even 
though he couldnt really afford to do this and Arrow had treated him unfairly.
 
As Mr L didnt accept the Investigators findings, the case has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer is in financial difficulties, wed expect the financial business to treat their 
customer fairly. What this means in practice depends on each customers circumstances. 
And  when recording information on a customers credit file  financial businesses have an 
obligation to make sure what they record is an accurate and fair reflection of the conduct of 
the account. 
Arrow acquired Mr Ls account in 2019. Mr L agreed a repayment arrangement and made 
those payments without incident until September 2020. At this point, Mr L contacted Arrow to 
explain hed been furloughed as a result of the pandemic and was unable to make 
payments. Arrow agreed a payment holiday for Mr L of 90 days. 
Two further payment holidays were agreed by Arrow. In April 2021, Mr L was still unable to 
resume making payments towards his account, Arrow wrote to him to say they were 
terminating his agreement and would register a default if he didnt pay the remaining balance 
by June 2021. Ive seen a copy of the letter Arrow sent Mr L about this.
The point of a payment holiday is to give the customer some temporary breathing space if 
theyre struggling and help them get back to making their normal payments, where possible. 
In total, Arrow gave Mr L six months of payment holidays before taking steps to default his 
account. And I can see Mr L had told Arrow that he remained furloughed and did not 
anticipate his circumstances changing any time soon. 
As well as the FCA guidance relating specifically to customers experiencing financial 
difficulty as a result of the pandemic, Arrow have obligations under the FCAs Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) to treat customers with forbearance and due consideration.
 
I can see Arrow wrote to Mr L in March 2021 to say his payment holiday was coming to an 
end and asked him to contact them if he wouldnt be able to resume making payments. Mr L 
says he didnt get this letter, but Im satisfied it was sent and to the correct address. While its 
unfortunate Mr L didnt receive this letter and didnt get in touch with Arrow before they wrote 
to him saying they intended to default his account, I dont think this makes a difference to the 
overall outcome of his complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr L did speak to Arrow when he received their letter about the default and told them he was 
still furloughed at this point and so he wasnt in a position to repay what he owed. He doesnt 
feel Arrow did enough to assist him before defaulting his account. It doesnt look like Arrow 
considered whether they should offer Mr L any other type of assistance when he contacted 
them at this point, but they did agree a further 90 day hold on the account. As Mr L has said 
he couldnt make payments as he was still furloughed, I dont think theres anything else 
Arrow could reasonably have done as it doesnt seem likely Mr L wouldve been able to 
resume making payments. 
Im sorry to hear how difficult things have been for Mr L. However, having considered 
everything, I think Arrow did treat Mr L fairly. They agreed a series of payment holidays, in 
line with FCA guidance and their obligations under CONC, to give Mr L time to get back on 
track. Its unfortunate that Mr L couldnt do so because he was furloughed but I dont think 
this is something I can fairly hold Arrow responsible for. 
Mr L has told us that even after he returned to work, he still wouldnt have been able to 
resume making payments towards his account with Arrow as he was only given part-time 
hours. So it seems unlikely Mr L wouldve been able to resume making payments even if 
Arrow had granted further payment holidays and so the default would likely have been 
registered in any event. 
Overall, Im satisfied Arrow treated Mr L fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman