DRN-3004808
The complaint
Miss T says Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General (Fairmead) unfairly 
settled a claim she made on her buildings insurance policy. 
What happened
Fairmead used a number of agents throughout the life of the claim. So, reference to 
Fairmeads actions include those of its agents unless otherwise stated.
Miss T has a Residential Property Owners buildings insurance policy underwritten by 
Fairmead and, as its ultimately responsible for this complaint, Ill refer to it throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive only provided a 
summary here.
Miss T owns a property which is rented out to tenants and is covered by a Fairmead 
buildings insurance policy.
There was sewage leak at the property and Miss T contacted Fairmead to make a 
claim on the policy. 
It appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to manage the claim.
Miss T obtained two quotes for the remedial work and presented these to the LA.
She instructed her own contractor to proceed with the work as there was some time 
pressure due to the involvement of an Environmental Health official. 
She says the LA authorised this, but Fairmead says no authorisation was given. 
Because of the estimated cost of the work required, the LA appointed a surveyor to 
validate the costs. 
There was a large difference between the estimate of £28,000 from Miss Ts 
contractor and that from the surveyor at approximately £13,000.
The surveyor pointed out Miss T had a business relationship with the contractor 
shed used and it felt the costings of the works had been inflated. 
It asked for a breakdown of the costs of the work but Miss T said this wasnt 
available.
Fairmead settled the claim and paid Miss T just short of £13,000 but she didnt think 
this was fair as it meant she would need to pay the remainder. She also said some 
work had been missed off the surveyors estimate.
She complained to Fairmead. It said it had asked for various documents to help 
validate the claim and Miss Ts contractors estimate, but these hadnt been received. 
It said the work missed off the surveyors estimate wasnt required. And so it didnt 
increase the settlement.
Our investigator considered the evidence and didnt uphold the complaint. He said he 
found the detailed estimate from Fairmeads surveyor to be more persuasive than the 
estimate from Miss Ts contractor and he hadnt seen enough to say Fairmead had 
authorised Miss T to commence work before its surveyor had assessed the damage.
Miss T asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. And having 
done so, I wont be upholding it. I realise this is likely to be disappointing for Miss T so Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Where evidence is inconclusive or contradictory  as some of it is in this case - Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probability, thats to say what I consider more likely to have 
happened. Ill also keep in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable to both parties.
Authorisation to proceed with the work
Miss T believes she was given authorisation to proceed with the work by the LA, around the 
time of the virtual appointment to assess the damage but hasnt supplied any additional 
evidence to support this. Fairmead disagrees with her view and says no authorisation was 
given and has provided its claim notes to support its position.
So, Ive considered the claim notes - which were recorded at the time - to consider whats 
more likely. These show the LA already considered the estimates shed received from 
Miss T to be very high. She also noted a video visit was required as Miss T was proceeding 
with the work shortly before she was given authorisation. The LA goes on to comment that 
strip out and drying was commencing the following Monday and again notes the consumer 
was proceeding under her own authorisation. I havent seen anything in the notes that leads 
me to think authorisation was given.
Overall, I find Fairmeads notes from the time to be more persuasive and Im satisfied, on 
balance, Fairmead didnt provide authorisation to proceed at this time although I 
acknowledge Miss T remembers it differently.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive then gone on to consider if the amount Fairmead paid in 
settlement of the claim was fair.
The settlement. 
Miss T instructed contractors she had an existing relationship with to proceed with the work. 
Because of this, Fairmead decided to cash settle the claim which Im satisfied was an option 
available to it under the terms of the policy. 
Insurers are generally able to secure contractors at a lower rate than consumers and cash 
settlements are often based on what it would have cost the insurer to complete the work. As 
a Service, we generally consider that to be reasonable particularly where a consumer has 
opted to use their own contractors but I still need to consider whether it was fair in the 
specific circumstances of this case.
Miss T provided an estimate from her chosen contractors showing a summary of the work 
involved and a cost of £28,000. Fairmeads surveyors produced a detailed estimate costed 
at approximately £13,000 based on broadly the same schedule of work. Fairmead paid this 
amount in settlement of the claim.
I have considered the two estimates carefully, and Im satisfied they cover broadly the same 
work. The invoice from Miss Ts contractor only provides a brief list of the work required and 
doesnt include costings for individual items or narrative about why they are required. On the other hand, Fairmeads estimate provides significantly more detail about each 
individual item and the cost and labour hours associated with them. The report provided with 
the estimate also gives a comprehensive narrative about why specific work is required. It 
also details - and makes allowance for - additional cost that might be incurred such as the 
removal, storage and reinstallation of the granite worktops that would require a specialist 
contractor to undertake.
I see from the file Fairmead asked Miss T for a full breakdown of the estimate she provided 
but she said it wasnt available and her contractor didnt have time to supply it. I also note 
our investigator asked Miss T for similar information but she didnt provide it. 
In summary, I find Fairmeads estimate of the cost to be more persuasive for the reasons 
Ive explained above. And while I acknowledge Miss Ts argument that she had to pay a 
higher amount to secure contractors due to the Corona virus restrictions, Ive also kept in 
mind she was given a number of opportunities to provide further justification and evidence as 
to why she thought Fairmead should pay her contractors much higher estimate but didnt 
provide anything to support her view. It was ultimately Miss Ts decision to proceed with 
works prior to receiving authorisation from Fairmead, which means it wasnt given the 
opportunity to question the estimate before work commenced.
Overall, Im satisfied Fairmead has acted reasonably in settling the claim as it did by basing 
the amount on the estimate from its surveyor. Ive not seen enough to persuade me it should 
have paid more than this.
Additional work
I note Miss T says some work has been missed off Fairmeads estimate and this includes 
plastering, full replacement of the soil pipe and some electrical work but Ive not seen an 
explanation from Miss Ts contractor about why this work was required. 
Theres some disagreement about whether the LA told Miss T she didnt consider this work 
necessary  the final response says she did; Miss T says she didnt. Either way though, I 
note from the file, Fairmead has included an element of plastering in its estimate and said it 
would consider a further payment for additional work if Miss Ts contractor could confirm the 
exact damage and the works required to resolve it. Im satisfied this is a reasonable 
approach in the circumstances.
Ill simply leave it up to Miss T follow this up directly with Fairmead if she wishes to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman