DRN-1624150
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled a chargeback claim he 
made on his current account. 
What happened
In May 2019, Mr W used the debit card for his current account with Barclays to pay a 
company, who Ill call D, for work it completed on his vehicle. The payment was for £8,000.
Mr W needed the work to be completed by a specific date, but there were delays and this 
meant that the deadline was missed. Mr W eventually was able to collect his vehicle, but he 
found a number of problems and issues with the work that had been carried out, some of 
which only showed when hed driven away. 
Mr W made D aware of his concerns, but he felt reluctant to return his vehicle to it for 
remedial work, as hed lost confidence in it. 
So he made a chargeback claim with Barclays for the payment to be returned. This was put 
to D who came back with information to defend the claim. Barclays wrote to Mr W and 
referred to this information but didnt include it. So Mr W needed to contact Barclays to ask it 
to send it to him. Barclays apologised that hed had to chase this up, and so it paid him £25. 
It let Mr W know what he needed to do next. 
Mr W then sent detailed information back to Barclays in response. It received this, but the 
documents werent attached to Mr Ws claim, and so they werent considered. Barclays 
assumed that Mr W hadnt replied and so it said his chargeback claim had been rejected.
Barclays said that it had been unable to recover the disputed funds, and so the payment was 
re-debited from Mr Ws account. 
Mr W was unhappy about the way that Barclays dealt with the chargeback and the 
investigation it carried out. He felt it had made the decision that D had offered to rectify the 
work, which he said wasnt true. He had evidence to show that he asked for the defects to be 
put right, but D said it would only carry them out if he paid for a warranty. He didnt feel that 
Barclays had asked for his version of events. But when it did ask for his evidence and Mr W 
sent this, Barclays mislaid it and so it hadnt referred to this in reaching the decision that his 
chargeback claim was unsuccessful.
Barclays apologised that the documents Mr W sent in hadnt been attached to his claim, and 
that it hadnt confirmed to Mr W when these were received. But it said that, after reviewing 
Mr Ws evidence, it felt that his chargeback claim wouldve been unsuccessful even if this 
had been looked at before. This was because it said D had attempted to mediate with Mr W 
to resolve the issues with his vehicle. It said that the vehicle shouldve been returned to 
D before logging the dispute claim but this wouldnt have changed the outcome. By way of an apology for the delays in investigating the claim and misplacing his documents, 
Barclays credited Mr Ws account with £250.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought Barclayss response to Mr Ws complaints was fair. The investigator said that 
Barclays had paid Mr W £25 for the inconvenience of Ds evidence not being included in the 
letter he received about the dispute. 
She also said that Barclays had acknowledged its error in not attaching the evidence Mr W 
had provided in response, but she said that it reviewed this and found that it wouldnt have 
changed the outcome of the unsuccessful chargeback attempt as D had offered to put things 
right. The investigator thought Barclayss offer of compensation for the mistake in not 
attaching Mr Ws evidence to his dispute was fair.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that D had only offered to correct the 
problems with the vehicle after he raised a dispute, and when he involved a solicitor. He said 
what D had written was different to the experience and evidence he had. Hed tried to get D 
to correct the issues with the vehicle before raising a dispute, but it had refused. It had 
suggested other places he could go to get the work done, when hed paid D to do it. 
Mr W felt Barclays was prepared to close his claim without considering his evidence and 
said it was only when hed said that he shouldve been able to give this evidence that it 
agreed to reopen his claim and paid him £25. 
Mr W said that some work completed by D was dangerous, leaving the equipment unusable. 
He said that hed only paid D as he felt he had no other option, as it wouldve meant he 
wouldve lost his business support and funding. He feels hes now been left with a vehicle 
that he cant use or sell on and has decided not to go ahead with starting his business. He 
said the matter had affected his health, causing stress to him and his family. He doesnt think 
£250 is enough for what Barclays has put him through.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about this situation, and how hes looked to 
resolve the issues with D and his vehicle. I acknowledge all that hes told us about the 
circumstances and how this had impacted upon him. 
Ive also been sorry to hear about all these issues hes experienced and how this situation 
has affected his health. 
However, it isnt my role to comment on Ds business practices; or the quality and 
professionalism of the service it provides. Nor is it for Barclays to do this. And it isnt 
Barclayss role to resolve the underlying dispute between Mr W and D  as such, as Ill 
explain later.
But I can look at Barclayss actions when dealing with his chargeback request. Although I 
appreciate that, for Mr W, this is linked with the service he received from D, my findings here 
relate solely to Barclayss actions. 
There are times when a consumer could ask their card issuer to reverse payments made on 
their card by making a chargeback request. Chargeback isnt a legal right, and there is no 
guarantee that the consumer will be able to get their money back. Banks dont have to raise a chargeback claim. But wed expect a bank to make a chargeback request when its 
reasonable to do so, but it would be bound by the rules of the card issuers scheme. This 
was Visa for Mr Ws payment, as he made the payment using his Visa debit card.
Here Barclays did look to process Mr Ws chargeback request. It refunded the payment to 
his account while it approached Ds bank to dispute the payment for the services. D then 
provided information and evidence about why it was looking to challenge the claim, and this 
included that it was willing to work with Mr W to rectify the problems he had with his vehicle.
I know that Mr W has told us about the problems he had with communicating with D before 
he raised the dispute, and this had formed part of his defence of Ds challenge to his claim. 
But this was before Barclayss involvement and so at the stage that Barclays was 
considering the claim, the status was that D had offered to put right the problems with the 
service Mr W had paid for.
Barclays didnt include a copy of Ds evidence in the letter it sent to Mr W about this, and he 
had to contact it about this. 
Ive listened to the related call recording. Barclays arranged for the evidence to be emailed 
to Mr W the same day, and also sent him a copy in the post. It credited £25 to his account by 
way of an apology for not sending the information, and so I think this was a reasonable 
response. Mr W has said that he feels that Barclays wanted to close his claim without seeing 
his evidence, but I dont think that was the case. During the call, Barclays explained the next 
steps to Mr W and the timeframe he had to send in his own evidence.
But when Mr W did send in his evidence, this wasnt attached to the records of his claim. 
And so Barclays assumed that Mr W hadnt responded to what D had said, when that wasnt 
right. It then closed down his chargeback claim.
So I can see why Mr W feels that he wasnt given an opportunity to put his side across 
during the claim.
However, Barclays has since considered Mr Ws evidence, and looked to see if this wouldve 
made a difference to his chargeback claim. And it has said that the claim wouldve still been 
rejected because D had offered to put right the aspects of the work on Mr Ws vehicle that he 
felt werent completed properly or safely. 
From the information Ive seen, there doesnt seem to have been a detailed work schedule 
or itemised contract to show what would specifically be included. So I think it would be 
difficult for a chargeback to succeed when the quality of what is expected hasnt been set 
out.
It doesnt seem to be the case that D hadnt completed the work Mr W had paid for.  He 
collected his vehicle when D said that it was ready, and then he paid D. I appreciate that 
Mr W found some problems with the work manifested after hed driven away, and that he 
may not have had the knowledge to say whether some aspects of the work hadnt been 
completed as hed needed. But he wouldve had an opportunity to view the work on his 
vehicle to be sufficiently satisfied the job he was paying for had been done.
Unfortunately all the information does suggest that a chargeback claim was unlikely to have 
been successful, even if Barclays had processed the documentation for the claim when 
Mr W provided it. 
I know that Mr W feels that the problems with his vehicle have prevented him from starting 
his business, and that hes lost an opportunity for earning an income from this. But this isnt a loss that would be covered by a chargeback claim, and isnt something Barclays is 
responsible for.
Barclays paid Mr W £250 for misplacing his evidence; the inconvenience and upset he was 
caused by this; and for the delays in dealing with his claim.
Overall, I think this represents a fair resolution to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman