DRN-2647136
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a default maker on his student account.
 
What happened
Mr H held a student account with HSBC with an agreed overdraft limit of £500. Around 
June/July 2016 Mr H went abroad for a year, returning in July 2017. Mr H says he had no 
access to postal communication at this time. 
HSBC sent two letters to Mr H in August 2016 about the overdraft balance and asked him to 
make regular payments into the account. In September 2016 it sent a further letter 
explaining that, as funds had not been paid into the account since 19 April 2016, his 
overdraft facility had been cancelled. 
It wrote again in October and November 2016 and asked for immediate payments.  
On 21 December 2016, a letter was sent to Mr H to tell him of the withdrawal of the services 
on the account and provided payments options. 
Then in January 2017, HSBC wrote to advise Mr H that it would exercise its right under the 
terms of the account to demand full repayment of the overdraft. To stop the demand being 
issued, it explained payment should be made that day. 
A formal demand was sent to Mr H on 21 February 2017. HSBC explained that the final 
demand had been served because no payments had been received. Mr H was given 18 
days to make payment. Having been provided with a copy of the letters sent, these show the 
final demand was sent to two addresses that it held for Mr H  one of which I can see Mr H 
has provided to our service. 
Mr H explained he was abroad and had no access to postal communication during that time. 
He says HSBC had his email address and phone number and could have contacted him to 
make him aware. 
On 23 March 2017, Mr Hs account was closed, and the overdraft debt was passed to 
recoveries.
Mr H has told us a couple of months after his return to the UK he discovered letters from 
HSBC. There is a record of a call between Mr H and HSBC from September 2017. The 
notes indicate Mr H called to speak about the account but that the call was disconnected by 
Mr H. The account balance was paid off by Mr H in October 2017. 
Mr H complained to HSBC about the matter in June 2020. Unhappy with its response, he 
came to our service. He says the default shouldnt have been registered against him. Hes 
told us he was abroad at the time and the bank should have made reasonable steps to 
contact him, for example by phone or email.
Our investigator found HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. He said that in order to maintain 
the overdraft, regular payments were required into the account. He added that from looking 
at the account statements, regular payments into the account stopped in April 2016. But did 
note there was one payment of £10 made in September 2016 whilst Mr H was abroad. He 
explained that from the information provided there was nothing that showed HSBC had been 
made aware Mr H was abroad. Our investigator felt HSBC had followed its procedures once 
the account stopped receiving regular payments and that it attempted to contact Mr H a 
number of times by letter to the address it held for him. So, he didnt think it was reasonable 
for it to have tried to contact him by phone or email. 
Our investigator found the account was defaulted after HSBC followed the appropriate 
procedure. 
Mr H disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, 
Mr H said the default was disproportionate and unfair because HSBC didnt make 
reasonable attempts to contact him. He also said he wasnt aware regular payments had to 
be made into the account. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
HSBC has provided us with a copy of the letters sent to Mr H between August 2016 and 
February 2017. The letters in August 2016 warned him that his overdraft facility might be 
removed if he did not attempt to make any payments. The letters also clearly state Mr H 
should resume making regular repayments to the account and to contact the bank if there 
are any problems. 
I can see there was one small payment to the account in September 2016 but then no 
further payments were made.
HSBC sent further letters to Mr H about the repayment of the account balance and, 
subsequently sent a final demand in February 2017.
I think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when the final demand was issued in February 
2017. And given the letters referred to above, Im also persuaded HSBC acted fairly in 
allowing Mr H time to pay off the debt owed.
I am aware Mr H told us he had no access to postal communication at the time due to being 
abroad. He feels the default registered is disproportionate and unfair because HSBC didnt 
do more to contact him. While Ive considered this carefully, Ive not seen anything that 
suggests Mr H informed HSBC he would be abroad from around June/July 2016 to July 
2017. I cant fairly say HSBC has acted unreasonably in sending letters to the address it held 
for him. So, it follows that I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to have expected HSBC 
to have contacted Mr H by other contact methods when it was not made aware he wouldnt 
have access to post. 
Mr H has also said he wasnt aware that regular payments had to be made into the account. 
Ive considered that point, but in any event an overdraft is a borrowing facility that a bank can 
contractually withdraw at any time. HSBC wrote to Mr H to the address it held on file for him on several occasions letting him know that regular payments were required on the account 
otherwise it could use its discretion to withdraw the overdraft and account services. Because 
HSBC didnt get a response to its correspondence, a final demand was issued and a default 
subsequently registered when no payment was received. So this point doesnt change my 
conclusion. 
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, taking everything Ive seen and 
been told into account, I dont think I can say HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
registering the default. I do understand Mr H repaid the debt in October 2017. But HSBC is 
required to report factual information to the credit reference agencies.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. So I wont be asking 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman