DRN-2020055
The complaint
Mr M says Gain Credit LLC , trading as Drafty, irresponsibly lent to him. He said that he had 
a large number of other short term loans outstanding when Drafty approved these accounts  
and so it shouldnt have lent to him.  
What happened
This complaint is about two running credit accounts Drafty provided to Mr M. Both of these 
were arrangements where Mr M could withdraw up to an agreed credit limit. He would need 
to repay a minimum of 5% of the outstanding balance each month plus any accrued interest 
or charges. 
Loan 1 was started on 4 August 2016. It had a credit limit of £400. Mr M used the account 
until 9 August 2017. He made five withdrawals which totalled £582. 
Loan 2 was started on 31 August 2017. It also had a credit limit of £400. This credit limit was 
increased to £720 on 11 November 2017 and to £1,040 on 7 December 2017. Mr M used 
the account frequently and he withdrew up to these limits. 
I understand that Mr M informed Drafty that he was in financial difficulty in July 2018. He had 
problems making the repayments from this point onwards. Loan 2 was suspended in April 
2019 and Mr M hasnt been able to fully repay it. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought Drafty was acting reasonably 
when it approved both of the loans.  But he also thought that Drafty shouldve realised, from 
how Mr M was using the account, that his indebtedness was unsustainable and so it wasnt 
right to approve the credit limit increase in November 2017 - and any lending after this point. 
Drafty didnt respond and so the complaint was passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly 
speaking, this all means that Drafty needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make 
sure Mr M could repay the accounts in a sustainable manner. 
Additionally, there may come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
And Drafty needed to monitor the account on an ongoing basis to ensure that the use of it 
didnt make it reasonable to think that Mr M was in financial difficulty.
The FCA guidance is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook. Section 6.7.2R of
the relevant guidance says: A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take 
appropriate action were there are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, I have reached the same 
outcome as our adjudicator, for essentially the same reasons. 
I agree that Drafty made proportionate checks before approving both of the running credit 
facilities. Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about this. So, I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about loan 1 and the initial approval of loan 2. So I wont 
comment further on these lending decisions. 
But facility one formed part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Drafty. So this is 
something I will take into account when considering the subsequent lending, and the credit 
limit increases, Drafty approved. 
Ive also considered the use of the accounts up to the first credit limit increase on loan 2. 
Having done this I think the lending history, and pattern of lending itself, clearly 
demonstrates that further lending was unlikely to be sustainable.  
Mr M had used the accounts for over a year at this point and the amounts he had borrowed 
had been at, or around, the credit limit for a significant part of this. Particularly in loan 2. This 
didnt look to be changing and so there was no sign that Mr M would be able to fully repay 
loan 2 within a reasonable timeframe. I think it was irresponsible of Drafty to increase the 
amount Mr M could borrowed on 11 November 2017 and to continue lending after this point.
Putting things right
Drafty shouldnt have given Mr M any further lending from, and including, the drawdown 
made on 11 November 2017.
If Drafty has sold any outstanding debts Drafty should buy these back if Drafty is unable to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Drafty are not able to buy the debts back then it 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Drafty should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld withdrawals without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Drafty has already refunded.
B) Drafty should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual repayments made by Mr M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Drafty should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding lending, and treat any repayments made by Mr M as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding lending. If this results in Mr M having made 
overpayments then Drafty should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Drafty should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding lending. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Drafty should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M. Drafty shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Drafty has already written-off.
E) Drafty should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
any withdrawals approved from 11 November 2017. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to deduct tax from this interest. Drafty should give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman