DRN-3041889
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to cover the full cost of private 
treatment and consultations charged by his specialist under his private medical insurance 
policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy explains that consultations and specialist fees for treatment and diagnostic tests 
are covered up to Avivas fee schedule limits. But if the fee is higher than those limits, the 
member will be responsible to pay the difference.
Fee approved specialists have agreed to charge within Avivas fee schedule limits, and so 
the policy also says that consultations and specialist fees for fee approved specialists will be 
covered in full.
Mr T had a consultation with a specialist (Professor E), as well as some investigations. 
Professor E had previously charged within Avivas fee limits for consultations with Mr T. 
However, in 2019, his consultation charge exceeded the fee limits, as did the charges for the 
investigations. As Professor E wasnt fee approved, he hadnt agreed to charge within 
Avivas fee limits. That meant that Aviva only paid a contribution towards the charges in line 
with its fee limits, and Mr T was responsible for the shortfall. Im satisfied that Aviva acted in 
line with its policy terms here. 
Mr T says the previous surgery he had that was carried out by Professor T couldnt be done 
by another specialist, and so he couldnt have seen a fee-approved specialist.
Mr T had undergone surgery with Professor E that Aviva considered to be experimental. 
That was Mr Ts choice of course, but the fact that Mr T opted to have experimental 
treatment with Professor E (rather than conventional treatment with a fee-approved 
specialist) doesnt mean that Aviva should step outside the terms of the policy and pay later 
fees charged by Professor E that exceed the fee limits. 
I see that Aviva offered to arrange for Mr T to have his follow-up consultations with a fee-
approved specialist so they would be covered in full, but Mr T chose to remain with 
Professor E. Again, that was up to Mr T, but he did so in the knowledge that hed be 
responsible for any shortfall as Professor E wasnt fee-approved
Mr T thinks that Avivas fee limits are unfair, and dont take into account the experience of 
specialists such as Professor E. However, Avivas decision to apply fee limits is a 
commercial decision, in which I cant interfere.
Mr T has referred to emails he received from Aviva in 2017 regarding follow-up consultations 
and monitoring after his surgery. He thinks those emails made him believe he was covered 
for ten years, and says there was no reference to fee guidelines. 
Whilst the emails didnt specifically refer to fee guidelines (as this wasnt part of the 
discussion), I think it was clear that the follow-up consultations and monitoring were being 
offered in line with the policy terms. I therefore remain satisfied it was also appropriate for 
Aviva to apply the policy terms in respect of its fee limits.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman