DRN-3447123
The complaint
Mr Es complaint is that U K Insurance (UKI) unfairly turned down a claim made on a 
Business from Home Insurance policy.
All references to UKI include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mr E says he believes on balance the actual cause of damage to the retaining wall 
was caused by a single event that consequently overwhelmed the structure of the 
wall causing it to crack. He believes the accident occurred when he initially selected 
that area to locate the hot tub, which was in the corner of the car park. Mr E says the 
claim should be accepted as Accidental Damage as its been shown that damage 
has happened. And he says it isnt fair for UKI to rely on an exclusion for gradual 
damage as he didnt know it was occurring.
UKI says the cracking in the retaining wall is due to a prolonged and progressive 
exposure to excessive weight and water. It says the hot tub was added on top of the 
wall some years after it was constructed  so whilst the wall was adequately 
designed as a retaining wall, it wasnt adequately designed to cope with the 
additional weight of the hot tub. Therefore, UKI says the claim for damage should be 
declined due to a gradually operating cause.
Ive considered whether UKI acted fairly in not accepting the claim. And Ive also 
considered whether UKIs application of the gradual damage exclusion fairly applies 
here.
Mr Es policy doesnt define accidental damage. So, our services approach is that 
the ordinary, everyday meaning is something unforeseen and unintentional. But if I 
think the damage happened gradually, then with strict application of the policy terms, 
it would be fair for UKI to turn down the claim.
Im persuaded that the evidence shows that whilst the cracks in the retaining wall 
appeared suddenly, its more likely than not that the cause of the damage happened 
gradually. The loss adjusters report concludes this was predominantly through a 
combination of the weight of the hot tub on the ground above, and the regular 
discharge of water every 2 weeks or so  some of which most likely entered the 
ground behind the wall. Ive seen nothing firm to refute this conclusion. So, I think its 
reasonable to conclude the damage happened gradually.
However, in the circumstances of Mr Es complaint, I need to apply a further test 
here; should Mr E have been aware (or ought to reasonably have been aware) the 
damage was happening gradually? If I conclude he was, then it follows that UKIs 
position is fair. But if Mr E wasnt aware, then UKI should accept the claim.
Ive thought very carefully about this point, and considered the arguments made by 
both parties. Having done so, whilst I accept Mr E may not have been aware that his 
actions were causing gradual damage, I find Mr E ought to have reasonably been 
aware in the circumstances. 
I acknowledge that Mr E has strongly refuted this point to UKI before referring the 
matter to our service. And he has further pointed to the weep holes in the wall below 
and said they were working as intended. UKIs loss adjuster didnt agree they were. 
But in any event, on balance I am persuaded that the proximity of the hot tub to the 
edge of the wall; the fact it remained static and didnt move unlike the vehicles 
parked there; and the fact it was emptied relatively frequently (in part to the ground 
underneath) provide enough reasons for Mr E to ought to have reasonably been 
aware that there would likely be some damage happening gradually. So, I dont think 
UKI has acted unreasonably in turning down the claim.
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman