DRN-3288920
The complaint
Mr R complains about the delays Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) caused 
in making repairs after he made a claim on his commercial motor insurance policy. He wants 
compensation for his consequent van hire charges. 
What happened
Mr Rs van was taken for repairs following an accident. There were initial delays due to an 
oversight and then a holiday period. The van was then repaired but further damage came to 
light and further repairs were required. Mr R was unhappy because the repairs took too long, 
and he had to hire a replacement van for some of this time. LV agreed that it had caused an 
initial 8 days delay in recovering the van to the repairer, and it reimbursed Mr Rs hire costs 
for this period. But Mr R was unhappy with this and that it hadnt compensated him for his 
trouble and upset during this time.
Our Investigator first thought the complaint should be upheld in full. He thought the van 
should have been repaired the first time around. And he thought LV should also pay for the 
hire charges incurred when the van was returned for further repairs. He also thought LV 
should pay Mr R £150 compensation for his trouble and upset. 
But LV then provided evidence that the further repairs werent accident-related. So the 
Investigator didnt think LV was responsible for the hire charges during this period. And he 
thought LV needed to pay Mr R £100 compensation. LV agreed to do this. But Mr R replied 
that he thought LV was responsible for more of the initial delays and his consequent losses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our Investigator has already explained, our approach is that LV is only responsible for 
avoidable delays it caused in making repairs that were related to the accident. So Ive looked 
at what occurred.
When the accident was first reported, I can see that LV thought the broker was responsible 
for initial delays. I understand that Mr R is raising this with his broker. I cant comment on 
that here as it is a separate business. 
But LV has agreed that due to an oversight, there was an eight days delay in getting the van 
to the repairers for an assessment. Ive looked at the timeline and I agree that LV is 
responsible for the delay from the date it was made aware of the claim until the van was 
recovered to the repairer. 
An assessment was made, and parts ordered promptly. The holiday period then followed 
and there were delays due to this affecting the availability of parts. But I cant reasonably 
hold LV responsible for this. 
Mr R was provided with a replacement van for the first 28 days of his claim, and then he 
hired a replacement for 20 days until his van was repaired. But I can only see that LV was 
responsible for eight days delay and I think its reimbursement for this time was fair and 
reasonable. 
Two weeks after the van was returned, Mr R found that it was over-heating and further 
repairs were required. But the evidence provided by LV from the repairer says that these 
repairs werent rectification work following the initial repairs and werent related to the 
accident. It said they were covered by warranty or at Mr Rs own cost. It said if it had thought 
they were accident-related, it would have invoiced LV. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
I cant see that Mr R has invoiced LV for the further repairs or provided any evidence to 
show that they were due to the accident or the initial repairs. So I think LV has justified its 
decision not to pay for them. And as its not responsible for these further repairs, Im satisfied 
that LV isnt responsible for any related replacement van hire costs. 
Mr R has explained the trouble and upset caused by having to source a van initially. LV 
agreed to pay him £100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with our published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr R £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by its delay in handling his claim, as its already 
agreed to do.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman