DRN-2443259
The complaint
Mr F complains that ReAssure Limited gave him incorrect information about the tax he would 
pay on taking his pension benefit. Causing him to pay more tax than hed expected to.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr F was caused to believe that the tax he would pay on his pension withdrawal 
would have been around £5,000 less than it ended up being. Which must have been 
upsetting. It meant that between 16 March 2020  when he was misinformed  and 
26 March 2020  when he complained  Mr F was caused to expect he would get a 
higher net income than he did. And the belief that his tax liability may have been 
lower may have caused him to decide to take his pension at that point.
The tax paid is determined by HMRC, so Mr F was always liable to pay the tax he 
did. So he hasnt suffered a financial loss. But has suffered by having his 
expectations unfairly raised.
Where a business has made a mistake our role is to try to put the consumer as close 
as possible into the position theyd have been in had the mistake not happened. 
ReAssure have offered that Mr F return the pension payment and have that paid 
back into his pension along with the returned tax deduction. Thereby placing him 
back in the position to decide the right time for him to take his pension. Which I think 
would be a fair way to put things right.
I understand that Mr F explains that hes now unable to return the pension income 
because it had been spent. He told us that he needed the pension income because 
his son had been injured through work and he needed the money for that. Im sorry 
for the position Mr F was in, but it means that I cant say that Mr F wouldnt have 
taken the pension even if hed been correctly informed about the tax he would pay.
I can appreciate that Mr F was caused trouble and upset at finding out hed received 
a smaller net sum from his pension than hed expected. And frustration at having to 
argue with ReAssure about what had happened. I think that a compensation payment 
of £250 is a fair level of compensation for that distress and inconvenience.
For the above reasons I wont be asking Reassure to do anything more than theyve 
suggested to put things right.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already offered:
to allow Mr F to return the pension payment and they will return his pension plan to 
the position it would have been in if hed decided to not take his pension on 
16 March 2020.
to pay Mr F £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that ReAssure Limited should compensate Mr F as above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman