DRN-1730905
 
The complaint
Miss E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Woolwich, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003, Miss E took out a PPI policy with a mortgage. The policy was sold during a meeting 
in a branch and provided cover for her mortgage repayments if she was unable to work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss E disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Miss E says she wasnt aware that the PPI had been added to her mortgage at the time and 
doesnt think Barclays gave her any information or explanations about the policy. But this 
sale took place a long time ago and memories do tend to fade over time. So I need to look a 
all the available information to decide what I think is most likely to have happened then.
Barclays has provided a copy of the mortgage application which was completed and signed 
by Miss E at the time. Theres a section in this dealing with PPI where Miss E was given a 
choice between taking one of two levels of PPI cover or not taking any cover at all. I can see 
that the option to select accident, sickness and unemployment cover has been ticked and 
Miss E has signed below this. And the words £500 benefit wanted have been handwritten 
to the right of this signature. Miss E has also signed a PPI Declaration and a direct debit 
mandate to allow the monthly PPI premiums to be collected.
In addition to the mortgage application, Barclays has provided a copy of a mortgage advice 
form which appears to have been completed by the Barclays mortgage advisor who Miss E 
spoke to during the meeting. And this seems to show that there was a discussion about the 
need for PPI cover and that Miss E chose to take the cover recommended to her.
So, from the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely that the PPI policy was discussed with 
Miss E at the time and that she actively decided to take it, knowing that this was optional. 
But I can understand why she may not be able to recall this now.
Barclays recommended the PPI policy to Miss E, so it needed to ensure that it was suitable 
for her. I dont know all the steps which Barclays took to do this. But from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Miss E appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions and limitations.
 
Miss Es representative says the policy wasnt suitable because it had a deferral 
period before any benefits from the policy could be claimed. But I dont think this 
deferral period made the policy unsuitable for Miss E. I say this because the deferral 
period only seems to have been for thirty days. And Ive also noted that Miss E chose 
to add an additional cash reserve amount to her mortgage for emergencies which 
could, presumably, have been used to make her mortgage repayments during this 
deferral period.
 
This policy would have protected Miss Es mortgage repayments for up to twelve 
months if she couldnt work. This appears to have been longer than any other means 
she had of making the repayments and, in any case, would have been paid in 
addition to these other means. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  one 
where ones home is potentially at risk. So I think that Miss E would have valued the 
extra security that the policy gave her if she was unable to work.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss E. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, Miss E could have cancelled the policy if she thought it no longer 
met her needs.
 
Barclays also needed to ensure that Miss E was given enough information about the PPI 
policy for her to decide if she wanted to take it. I think its possible that Barclays could have 
given her better information that it did. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable, I dont think that better information would have changed her mind 
about taking it out. I think shed still have thought it gave her useful protection at an 
affordable monthly cost.
So I dont think that Miss E has lost out by anything that Barclays may have done wrong 
when it sold her this PPI policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman