DRN-3728365
The complaint
Miss L complains HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent her becoming the victim of 
an investment scam or help her when she reported the investment scam.
What happened
Miss L has a current account with HSBC with a debit card and has been a customer since 
she was a child. Her HSBC account appears to be her main account. She has two current 
accounts and a help to buy ISA elsewhere too.
In August 2020 Miss L sent a number of debit card payments totalling over £10,000 from her 
HSBC account to an account in her name with a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. She 
says she made these payments because a third party had told her that they could help her 
trade cryptocurrency and make a significant profit. Miss L says she believed trading in 
cryptocurrency would allow her to save up enough money to be able to afford a deposit for a 
house  she was already paying into her ISA with this in mind. She made a number of debit 
card payments from her current account elsewhere to this cryptocurrency account too.
In November 2021 Miss L contacted HSBC, with the help of a representative, to say she 
believed shed been the victim of an investment scam. HSBC looked into this for Miss L but 
said it wasnt able to recover her money. Miss L complained saying that HSBC should have 
warned her that the payments she was making might be a scam and didnt do enough to 
protect her. HSBC didnt agree it had done anything wrong, so Miss L complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ls complaint and said that there are no warnings 
about the people she dealt with on the FCAs and IOSCOs watchlists meaning that, though 
they didnt doubt Miss Ls version of events, they hadnt seen any evidence confirming that 
these payments were part of a scam. More importantly, our investigator didnt think the 
transactions were unusual compared to her normal activity so didnt think HSBC should have 
identified them as suspicious. The transactions were also to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. Because of this, they didnt automatically trigger an alert for HSBC and a 
chargeback would have been unsuccessful. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss Ls representatives disagreed with our investigator saying that all of the payments she 
had made were unusual. They said that HSBC should have asked Miss L about the 
payments, and had it done so its likely that HSBC would have discovered that whilst Miss L 
was sending money to a legitimate cryptocurrency trader, the scammer was in the 
background advising her to do so, so that they could ultimately take her cryptocurrency and 
that it would have provided an appropriate scam warning. They asked an ombudsman to 
consider the complaint, so thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In August 2020 Miss L received a message on social media from an individual claiming to 
work for a large trading company who said that they could help her make a substantial profit 
trading cryptocurrency. Miss L was saving to buy a house at the time. Miss L believed the 
opportunity was a legitimate one because of the number of followers, for example, the 
individual had and stories from other people saying theyd been able to make substantial 
profits. So, she started making payments to a cryptocurrency wallet in her name that shed 
been told would be used to trade.
Miss L says the first payments she made  of between £100 and £300  were investments. 
She was then told that she should upgrade her account  which involved a payment of over 
£400  and later that she needed to pay a maintenance fee. But she was happy to make 
these payments as she could see her investment was already worth over £10,000. She says 
she decided to withdraw £11,000 and was told shed need to pay a withdrawal fee and 
commission. The withdrawal fee was over £2,500 and the commission was over £1,000. 
Miss L says she made these payments and was told that her funds had been paid to her but 
shed need to pay a release fee of over £4,000. In short, Miss L was asked to make 
increasingly larger payments but was motivated to do so because she believed shed be 
getting back over £10,000.
Our investigator didnt think any of these payments were unusual for Miss L, and I agree. Ill 
explain why.
At the time Miss L made her payments, banks were expected to process payments a 
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Miss Ls HSBC account. I dont think I can say  given 
the payments in question here  that HSBC unreasonably failed to intervene before 
executing Miss Ls instructions, or that it would be reasonable here to hold HSBC 
responsible for Miss Ls loss.
There is a balance to be struck here  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud 
and to act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. I think the payments in question here were of relatively low value when 
compared to Miss Ls normal account spend and they were not sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic to say that HSBC ought to have been concerned that Miss L could be at risk 
of financial harm.
Miss L made similarly large undisputed payments in the past and, as our investigator has 
also pointed out, these payments were all being made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange. HSBCs systems didnt flag any of these payments and, given that they werent 
unusual, I cant say that this was a failing on HSBCs part. And, as our investigator says, 
once Miss L said shed been the victim of a scam, a chargeback wouldnt have helped.I agree, given the above, that it wouldnt be fair to have expected HSBC to do more in this 
particular case. I accept that Miss L appears to have been the victim of an unkind scam. But 
in this case I dont think its fair to say that HSBC should refund her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman