DRN-1791695
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although the policy was sold by another business the complaint was set up initially 
against Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) as they were the underwriters of the 
policy and had accepted responsibility for these sorts of sales. However, FICL has now 
transferred its insurance business to AXA France IARD (AXA). Therefore, the complaint 
has now been set up against AXA.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Ms M took out a store card in 2003. She was sold the PPI in connection with this card at 
the same time.
The PPI wouldve cost MsM £1.50 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. And as 
I understand it, wouldve covered 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if MsM was 
off work sick or lost her job until the outstanding balance had been cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
Ms M didnt agree with our adjudicator and the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in this case in March 2020 explaining why I intended to 
uphold this complaint. I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or 
evidence they would like me to consider. Ms M accepted my provisional decision. AXA have 
not provided anything further for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case.
As I have not received any further information or evidence since I issued my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings set out in that decision. It follows 
that I uphold Ms Ms complaint for the same reasons as those set out my provisional 
decision. These are set out below and form part of my final decision.
AXA had to give Ms M certain information about the policy at the time of the sale. In 
particular this should have included clear information about the costs and benefit of the 
policy so that Ms M could make a proper choice as to whether or not she wanted to take 
the policy out.
I dont think AXA gave Ms M clear information about the true costs and benefit of the 
policy at the point at which she wouldve selected PPI. The application form Ive seen 
just shows that the policy cost 1.5p for every £1 of the monthly balance. This was a 
relatively expensive policy and it doesnt provide examples of what this would mean for 
Ms M in practical terms. Nor is it made clear that premiums would need to continue 
being paid during a claim - or that interest would be added to the monthly premiums if 
the balance wasnt cleared in full.
Im satisfied if Ms M had been given better information, she wouldnt have taken the 
policy out. Ms M has told us she had been with her employer for three years at the time 
of the sale and would have been entitled to six months (or more) worth of sick pay from 
her employer.
From what I understand of Ms Ms employer, even though Ms M wouldnt have 
been entitled to the maximum sick pay it offered (this was for employees with 5 
years plus service), I accept that she would still have been entitled to at least the 
equivalent of six months full sick pay at the time of the sale.
Given Ms Ms existing repayment provisions at the time of the sale, I think that if Ms M 
had been provided with the true cost and benefit of the policy, she wouldnt have
thought the policy was of good value for money for her in her particular circumstances.
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms M would have owed when she closed her 
store card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged 
on those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the 
mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms M owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would 
have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund.
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what MsM would have owed each month without PPI  Ms M paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay 
simple interest on the extra MsM paid. And it should carry on paying interest 
until the point when MsM wouldve owed AXA something on her credit card. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms M what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already paid Ms M back some of the money she paid for the 
PPI, in relation to the commission and profit share it received, that sum can be 
deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ms complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman