DRN-1837090
The complaint
Mr As complaint is that the car he acquired through a Personal Contract Purchase 
Agreement (the agreement) with Motonovo Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. He 
wants to reject the car.
What happened
Mr A entered into an agreement with Motonovo in September 2019 to acquire a used car. At 
the time of acquisition, the car was four years old and had been driven 63,000 miles.
In November 2019, Mr A reported issues with the car to the dealer. He said the car was 
jerking, the engine management light (EML) was coming on, and the car was losing power 
and going into limp mode. The car was returned and the EML reset. He says he was then 
told to take the car to the main dealer to have the tyres changed. 
Mr A says that issues continued after the repairs and he was told to take the car back to the 
main dealer. He did this and had further repairs carried out. Issues continued and Mr A 
raised his complaint with Motonovo.
Motonovo says that Mr A was told to go to the main dealer for the initial repairs and then for 
further diagnostics. It says that no reports were provided from the diagnostics to justify 
further repairs and that Mr A then wasnt authorised to have the repairs carried out. 
Motonovo had an independent inspection carried out which said that faults werent present 
or developing at the point of supply but were due to failed repairs. Therefore, it didnt uphold 
Mr As complaint
Mr A didnt accept Motonovos decision and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr As complaint. He thought that it wasnt unreasonable for Mr A to 
have thought the second repair had been authorised by the dealer. He noted the inspection 
report results and the mileage Mr A had covered but said that given when the issues first 
arose he didnt think the car was sufficiently durable and not of satisfactory quality. Given 
this, and the failed repairs, he thought Mr A should be allowed to reject the car. 
Motonovo didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A acquired a used car in September 2019 which he financed through the agreement with 
Motonovo. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), 
Motonovo can be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
what a reasonable person would expect taking into account all the circumstances. In this 
case the car was first registered in September 2015 and had been driven just over 63,000 
miles at acquisition.
The car passed a MOT in July 2019 (at 60,007 miles) suggesting it was road worthy at that 
time. Given the age and mileage of the car it would be expected that it would have suffered 
some wear and tear. Against this background, I have considered the issues Mr A raised and 
the timing of these.
Mr A reported issues with the car in early November 2019, around two months after 
acquisition. I understand the mileage was around 68,000 miles so Mr A had been able to 
drive the car for around 5,000 miles. 
Mr A reported the EML being on and the car losing power. The dealer told him to book the 
car in for repair. On 7 November, the EML was reset. He was then told to book the car into 
the main dealer for the tyres to be replaced as the dealer thought this may resolve the issue. 
The cost of this was covered by the dealer. However, the issues remained, and I have seen 
an email dated 18 November between Mr A and the dealer in which he says the EML is still 
coming on and noting the continued loss of power. Mr A explained the issue nearly caused a 
crash and he didnt feel safe in the car.
Under the CRA 2015, if issues are identified outside of the first 30 days but within the first six 
months the business is allowed a chance to carry out a repair. In this case, the dealer 
appears to have accepted there was a fault with the car as it authorised repairs to be 
undertaken  that is the initial reset and then the replacement of the tyres. However, after 
this happened, Mr A reported the same issues continuing. Given this I find that he should 
have been given the opportunity to reject the car at this point.
When Mr A was discussing the ongoing issues with the car in November 2019, he noted that 
he should be allowed to return it but was giving the dealer a second repair opportunity. The 
car was booked in on 25 November. I have looked through the email exchange regarding 
this booking and the dealer says that Mr A should take the car back to the dealer that 
changed the tyres to re-fault the vehicle. The email discussion continued, and the dealer 
says that once the main dealer has diagnosed the fault Mr A should make contact and the 
dealer will raise a warranty claim and get the repair authorised.  There are then some mixed 
messages about what is being authorised. Following the repair, Mr A again said the issue 
returned and the dealer didnt challenge the repairs that had been undertaken but said it 
would collect the car for further investigation.
I can see there was confusion about what was being authorised  diagnostics or repair. 
However, on balance, given the emails exchanged and the comments following the repair I 
find that Mr A didnt act unreasonably by having the repair carried out. He had been told that 
once a fault was identified this repair would take place and so I find it reasonable to accept 
that had he reported the main dealers findings at the time the repair would have been 
authorised. Therefore, I do not find that this issue means Mr A shouldnt be allowed to reject 
the car.
Motonovo had an independent inspection report carried out in January 2020 at which time 
the mileage was recorded as just over 70,000. The report confirms that the EML was on and 
there were fault codes recorded. When the car was taken for a test drive the inspector says, 
there was a severe lack of power and performance. The report says that the previous repair 
hadnt been successful. It then says that the issues werent present from the point of supply 
but were due to the failed repairs.
I have considered all the information in the inspection report and I note the comment about 
the issues not being present from the point of supply. However, as the report confirmed the issues present at that time were the same as those reported by Mr A in early November 
2019, before any repairs took place, I do not find that the issues can be attributed entirely to 
failed repairs. I also note that more than one repair took place and there is no dispute about 
the earlier repairs being authorised and it is clear these werent successful.
Based on the report confirming the issues Mr A raised in early November still being present, 
and noting the issues were first reported two months after acquisition, I find it is more likely 
than not that there were faults with the car that had been present or developing at the point 
of supply and that the car wasnt sufficiently durable.  
Overall, while I note the comments made by Motonovo about the inspection report and the 
repairs, I find, on balance, the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply due to the 
reasons set out above. The business had the opportunity to carry out a repair on more than 
one occasion, and this wasnt successful. So, I find that fairest solution is for Mr A to now be 
allowed the reject the car. 
Our investigator noted that Mr A hadnt been using the car and recommended that he be 
refunded three months of rentals. This would have meant him being refunded all rentals from 
end 2019. Mr A has confirmed that he hasnt driven the car since the inspection report took 
place on 2 January 2020. Therefore, I find it reasonable that all his payments from start 2020 
are refunded. 
Mr A was also caused inconvenience by the issues that arose. He had to return his car more 
than once and wasnt given the option to reject the car when I believe he should have been. 
The other remedies set out in this decision provide the main part of the compensation, but I 
agree that £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused should also be paid. 
Putting things right
To put things right Motonovo Finance Limited should:
1. end the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. collect the car at no further cost to Mr A;
3. refund the £1,000 deposit Mr A paid; 
4. refund payments made from start of 2020;
5. remove any adverse information from Mr As credit file; and 
6. pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A has suffered.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Motonovo considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Motonovo Finance Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman