DRN-3546793
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way in which Equifax Limited are reporting information on his 
credit file.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In late 2021, Mr S complained to Equifax that they were reporting the wrong flat and dates 
for his electoral roll data. Equifax corrected the dates and flat, but recorded Mr Ss address 
in a format which left out certain words like flat. They explained they had to record it that 
way because the address Mr Ss local authority had provided did not match Royal Mail 
records for valid addresses. They offered him £200 compensation for the previous error.
Mr S complained about the new address format missing out certain words. He says this 
caused him to be unable to increase his credit card limit. He also says Equifax are recording 
the balance for his current account incorrectly, and he complained about his online 
dashboard saying he had missed payments when he hadnt missed any.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr S and Equifax a provisional decision on 1 June 2022, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
Both sides accept that Equifax were initially recording the wrong flat and electoral roll dates 
for Mr S. Im glad to see that they acted quickly to record the correct flat and dates once 
Mr S told them things were wrong.
However, the address format that Equifax then used, where words like flat were missing, 
does not seem to have been quite right either. I appreciate their arguments about valid 
address formats. But that format matched neither the Royal Mail database nor what Mr Ss 
local authority were reporting. So I dont think it resolved things.
Equifax have now offered to use an address format of Flat [flat number] [street number], 
[street name]. This seems to be a valid format that should work with the Royal Mails 
database and match up the local authoritys electoral roll data with Mr Ss lenders data. So 
I think its a good way to resolve this issue.
I appreciate that Mr S would ideally like his address displayed in a longer format with both 
the floor and flat number, which Equifax were previously able to produce an example report 
with. But ultimately, that format was not valid, so Equifax were not able to keep his address 
in that format.
I also appreciate that Mr S would like the street number and street name to be on the same 
line. But thats simply not how Equifax records the address  they have the street name on a 
separate line. This is a valid way to display the address and should not cause any issues. 
Mr S will note that even in the long-form address format he ideally wanted, the street number 
and street name were still on different lines. 
So I think Equifaxs latest offer to adjust Mr Ss address is a fair way to resolve that issue.
I do appreciate that trying to fix this has been a real inconvenience for Mr S, not least as its 
been ongoing for some months. When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to 
pay compensation  to acknowledge their mistake and the impact it had.
In terms of the impact here, I understand Mr S feels that the address issue prevented him 
from increasing his credit cards limit. But looking at the search data, his credit card provider 
did not check his Equifax file at the time. So his Equifax credit file would not have affected 
the application for a limit increase  the credit card provider didnt look at Equifax.
In terms of the amount of compensation, its also worth bearing in mind that were not here to 
fine or punish businesses. We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, 
and I need to be consistent with those. Taking everything into account, I think £300 
compensation would be fair to account for the delays in getting the address issue sorted.
Mr S also complains that Equifax are reporting the wrong balance on his current account. Its 
showing as 0, when he says he keeps large sums of money in there. I can understand where 
this misconception has come from. But to explain, ones savings or positive current account 
balances are not displayed on ones credit file. The current account entry only shows the 
balance of the overdraft  i.e. how much debt one is in. Since Mr S is not using his overdraft, 
it correctly shows the balance as 0. Mr S will note that the other credit reference agencies 
are also correctly reporting his current account balance as 0, as hes in 0 debt there.
Lastly, I appreciate Mr S is unhappy that his online dashboard is saying he has missed 
payments. Thats just an error with the customer-facing website, and only Mr S sees his 
dashboard. His prospective lenders do not see the dashboard. When a financial business 
checks his credit file, they only see the raw data, which correctly shows he has no missed 
payments. I hope I can reassure Mr S that the dashboard display error will not affect him in 
any substantial way.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
15 June 2022. Mr S didnt add anything further. Equifax accepted the findings and said 
they would update Mr Ss address to the proposed format if he confirms he wants them to.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for the same reasons as set out in 
my provisional decision above.Putting things right
I direct Equifax Limited to:
Adjust Mr Ss address to the new format of Flat [flat number] [street number], [street 
name], should he consent to them doing so; and-
Pay Mr S £300 compensation in total.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part, and direct Equifax Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman