DRN-3749349
The complaint
Ms S (both on her own behalf and on behalf of the estate of the late Mr S) complains about 
the acts of Mr J. She says she and Mr S believed they were investing money through Mr J 
(on Mr Js advice) but its now clear Mr J kept most of the money himself. She says 
Openwork Limited is responsible because Mr J was with a business that was an appointed 
representative of Openwork at the relevant time.
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr J worked for a 
business between 1 December 2001 and 16 December 2010. That business has had 
several different names over the years but seems to have consistently used the trading 
name of Bespoke Financial Advice (Bespoke) when dealing with Mr and Ms S. This is 
therefore the name Ive used throughout this decision. Bespoke was an appointed 
representative of Openwork between 31 May 2005 and 17 August 2016.
Ms S says Mr S was diagnosed as terminally ill towards the end of 2008, so they met with 
Mr J to make sure their finances were in order and that provision had been made for their 
children.
Following Mr Js advice, Mr and Ms S invested £200,000 into a Sterling bond in March 2009. 
But Ms S says they also wanted to invest for each of their three children and she says Mr J 
recommended three separate Sterling bonds for this. 
Ive been provided with a recommendation letter from Mr J dated 16 October 2009 on 
Bespoke branded paper with an Openwork footer which read:
To meet your investment need I recommended the Sterling Investment Bond
As I have explained to you, I am a member of Openwork, which is a network of 
financial advisers. We are committed to ensuring that the financial advice provided is 
suitable for your current needs given the information you have provided. If this proves 
not to be the case, Openwork guarantees to put it right
I have sent your application to Sterling and you should hear from them shortly
A Sterling Bond provides you with the potential for the investment to grow in value, 
with the flexibility of accessing your investment at any time and the ability to take a 
regular income at any age.
We discussed the different versions of the bond and based on what we agreed, I 
recommended the following to meet your objectives.
High Allocation version of the Sterling Investment Bond
This version of the bond was suitable as you wanted to get the highest allocation rate 
and are confident you will not require access to a lump sum from the capital in the 
first five years.
The investment amount was stated to be £135,000. And a bond illustration that was provided 
also related to £135,000. But Ms S says the plan was to set up three Sterling bonds with 
£135,000 in each  one for each child. She says they therefore wrote three cheques for 
£135,000. These cleared on 19 October 2009, 21 October 2009 and 26 October 2009 
respectively. But it seems only one of the cheques was paid into a Sterling bond and the 
other two were paid into an account Mr J had.
This decision relates to the two £135,000 cheques that Mr and Ms S wrote in October 2009 
that werent invested in a Sterling bond.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S died in December 2009.
Ms S wrote a further six cheques to top up the three Sterling bonds she believed existed. All 
of these were for £15,000 each. Three cleared in March/April 2010. And the other three 
cleared in December 2010. Each time only one of the cheques was paid into a genuine 
Sterling bond. The remaining four cheques, as well as a cheque in February 2014 which 
Ms S says she believed was being invested in an ISA, arent covered by this decision. And 
neither is Ms Ss complaint about mismanagement of the genuine investments and the fact 
her ISA allowances werent utilised. These are all the subject of separate complaints.
Ms S says she received a monthly income from Bespoke as bogus investment income on 
the money thatd been misappropriated. She says this came to a total of around £162,750 
and shes provided statements showing this.
On 4 December 2019 Ms S was contacted by the police and told Mr J had been arrested the 
day before. Mr J was later convicted of fraud and given a prison sentence. Ms S has been 
able to recover some of the money he took from her and Mr S under the Proceeds of Crime 
Act 2002 but has still suffered a loss.
Ms S complained to Openwork. Openwork issued a final response letter saying it wasnt 
responsible. In summary, it said:
Two Sterling bonds had been arranged through it  one of £200,000 in March 2009 
and one of £135,000 in November 2009.
Any advice or arrangements Mr J gave or made in relation to the fraudulent 
investments wasnt in his capacity as an appointed representative of it and it has no 
records of the fraudulent investments.
Mr J had been restricted to advising on plans and services arranged through it.
Mr J was prohibited from handling client money.
Mr and Ms S ought to have realised that things were different with the fraudulent 
investments  they didnt receive any paperwork for them; the cheques were 
payable to Bespoke rather than Sterling; and monthly income came from Bespoke 
rather than Sterling. Ms S also didnt query the fact she received a notification in 
September 2012 that the adviser on the Sterling bond was someone different to Mr J.
An investigator was satisfied we could consider the complaint and that it should be upheld. 
In summary, he said:He was satisfied thered been a regulated activity. He concluded that even though 
the recommendation letter of 16 October 2009 only referred to an investment of 
£135,000, the letter was most likely presented as applying to all three investments. 
Mr and Ms Ss intention had been to create a pot of money for each of their three 
children and all three £135,000 cheques cleared shortly after the recommendation 
letter. It was most likely there was one single piece of advice to take out three 
identical investments.
Openwork was responsible because Mr J was acting as Bespoke when he gave the 
advice, and he was authorised by it to give advice on Sterling bonds. 
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr and Ms S would have invested in 
three identical Sterling bonds. 
Openwork didnt agree. It also said Ms S had raised the complaint too late. The investigator 
therefore issued a further view addressing Openworks time bar objection. He was still 
satisfied we could consider the complaint and that it should be upheld.
The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision. Ive read and considered 
everything Openwork has said. In summary, it says:
There should be one complaint for the issues raised.
A decision should be made on the jurisdiction issues first. 
Jurisdiction is a matter of law that requires legal analysis  it cant be decided on the 
balance of probability and doesnt involve consideration of whats fair and 
reasonable.
The events complained about were over 10 years ago and its unlikely Ms Ss 
recollections are accurate. Theres no evidence that Mr and Ms S intended to create 
three identical pots of money, and this is contrary to all the documentation from the 
time. The fact the monthly returns were received into Ms Ss account also doesnt 
match with these being investments for children. We should place weight on the fact 
only one set of paperwork was received (for an investment of £135,000); only one 
investment cheque was made payable to Sterling; and only one of the sets of 
monthly returns came from Sterling and none of this was questioned. The dates the 
cheques were cashed isnt relevant.
Theres no evidence of any regulated advice being given. This was a fraud which 
arose from Mr Js unlawful activities. Handling client money isnt a regulated activity. 
And the money Mr and Ms S gave Mr J didnt come from a regulated activity so the 
circumstances can be distinguished from those in R (TenetConnect Services Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin).
The starting point is that principals arent responsible for all acts and omissions of 
their appointed representatives, including cases where the appointed representative 
steals money.
It didnt make any representations in relation to Mr J fraudulently taking the money.
The test when deciding whether a complaint was made outside the time limits is an 
objective one  real or professed naivety isnt a defence. And Ms S didnt need to know for certain that she had cause for complaint, she just needed to know enough 
that she ought reasonably to have investigated further.
Ms S ought to have had concerns when she didnt get policy documents or annual 
updates from Sterling, and she ought to have had concerns about the way the 
monthly returns were received. We need to make sure we know exactly how these 
returns would have appeared.
What Ive decided  how many complaints have been made
The FCA Handbook defines a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on 
behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, 
claims management service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with 
whom that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing 
financial services or products or claims management services, which 
comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The key question here is whether the complaint is about one or more provisions of a 
financial service. 
The investigator was satisfied five financial services had been provided and so set up five 
complaints:
One for two payments Mr and Ms S made  of £135,000 each  in October 2009 that 
Ms S says they believed were to set up Sterling bonds.
One for two payments Ms S made  of £15,000 each  in March/April 2010 that she 
says she believed were to top up Sterling bonds.
One for two payments Ms S made  of £15,000 each  in December 2010 that she 
says she believed were to top up Sterling bonds.
One for a payment of £24,000 Ms S made in February 2014 that she says she 
believed was being invested in an ISA.
One for mismanagement of the genuine investments and the fact Ms Ss ISA 
allowances werent utilised.
Openwork says these were all one financial service and should therefore be considered in 
the same complaint. I dont agree. Instead, I agree with the investigator that there were five 
separate financial services provided.
As Ive set out above, a recommendation letter was provided for an investment of £135,000 
on 16 October 2009. Ive gone on to explain later in my decision that Im satisfied the 
£270,000 that was paid in October 2009 and then misappropriated was also part of this 
piece of advice.But I dont think the two sets of top ups Ms S thought she was making in March/April 2010 
and December 2010 were part of that advice. In her initial complaint, Ms S said Mr J had 
advised her on both occasions to make the top ups. And when the investigator probed this 
further, she said that on both occasions shed received additional money and wasnt sure 
what to do with it and so sought Mr Js advice. I accept that there are notes on the system 
saying these top ups were execution-only and that thats what Mr J told Openwork. But Ms S 
has been consistent and plausible in her recollections. And given there was such a 
relationship of trust between her and Mr J, I think its most likely her recollections are an 
accurate reflection of how their relationship operated and what actions she took when more 
money became available. Im therefore satisfied a new financial service was provided by 
Mr J each time top ups were made and so these should be the subject of separate 
complaints.
The £24,000 payment in February 2014 was made several years later following a withdrawal 
from a Sterling bond and Ms S has consistently said she believed this money was being 
invested into an ISA. Im therefore satisfied this wasnt part of any previous advice that was 
given and was a separate standalone financial service requiring a separate complaint.
And Ms Ss complaint about the mismanagement of the genuine investments and a failure to 
advise her to utilise her ISA allowance clearly relates to a separate financial service she 
says she should have been given. So, Im satisfied this too should be a separate complaint.
This decision therefore only considers the £270,000 paid in October 2009 that Ms S says 
was intended to be put into two Sterling bonds.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
I agree with Openwork that I cant decide jurisdiction on the basis of what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. Thats the basis on which the merits of the 
complaint will be determined if, but only if, we have jurisdiction to consider it.
I accept that jurisdiction involves considering the rules and law. But Id add that if there are 
any disputed issues of fact that I need to resolve to help me decide either jurisdiction or the 
merits of the complaint, it falls to me to decide them according to the balance of probability.
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the FCAs Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
The advice complained about here was in October 2009. Ms S complained to Openwork on 
6 January 2020. So, the complaint is outside the first part of the time limit  i.e. it was made 
more than six years after the events complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the 
second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Ms S 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, she had cause for complaint.
Ms S says she didnt know she had cause for complaint until 4 December 2019  when the 
police contacted her and told her Mr J had been arrested. Shes said she had some doubts 
about Mr J when she was called by a company representing Openwork in December 2018 
and told he was no longer on the FCA register but she says when she challenged Mr J about 
this, he reassured her that there wasnt a problem. Because the December 2018 phone call 
was less than three years before Ms Ss complaint, I havent considered it further.
Openwork says Ms S ought reasonably to have been aware of cause for complaint earlier 
than this. I agree with Openwork that the test when considering the time limits is an objective 
one and this is the test Ive used when considering each of the events Openwork says ought 
reasonably to have made Ms S aware of cause for complaint. I also agree that a consumer 
doesnt have to know for certain that something has gone wrong, or the full extent of whats 
gone wrong, for the purpose of the time limit rules.
The fact the monthly returns came from Bespoke rather than Sterling
Ms S accepts that she received monthly returns from Sterling for the genuine Sterling bond 
and from Bespoke for the money Mr J had stolen. I can see from Ms Ss statements that 
these were clearly distinguishable.
The investigator asked Ms S why she never questioned this. She explained that Mr J had 
told her hed amalgamate the payments from two of the bonds and send the money to her as 
a single payment. Im satisfied Ms S has been consistent and plausible in her explanation 
that this was what she was told. The question I need to answer is therefore whether these 
differing payments ought reasonably to have made her aware of cause for complaint.
Ms S has given detailed recollections of her relationship with Mr J. He became the financial 
adviser for her and her husband at a very difficult time in their lives and its clear he built up a 
relationship of trust and friendship with them. Ms S has said that whenever she had 
questions, he always answered them in a way that was completely plausible, saying, He 
showed me graphs of financial performance, questionnaires on my attitude to risk and 
reassured me that our finances were all set up. Its clear to me that Ms S (and Mr S) viewed 
Mr J as a financial expert who could be trusted.
Whilst Ms S now knows the fact the monthly returns were being transferred to her differently 
was a warning flag, Im satisfied based on everything Ive seen that she didnt know this at the time. And Im also satisfied it was reasonable for her to not know this at the time and to 
rely on the explanation she was given by her registered financial adviser.
The fact she was only given one set of paperwork  for the legitimate investment
Ms S says she met with Mr J approximately every six months and he always presented the 
legitimate Sterling bond valuation as representative of all three. It seems to be these 
meetings that Ms S relied on for information rather than anything sent to her direct by 
Sterling. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think the fact Mr J only 
ever presented one set of documentation is something that ought to have caused Ms S 
concern. Ms S has explained that she and Mr S had a lot of different paperwork for their 
affairs at the time of the investments and that everything was quite overwhelming. The fact 
that their financial adviser seemed to be taking steps to help by reducing the paperwork was 
probably something they were grateful for. Ms S has consistently said that she believed 
there were three identical Sterling bonds  to only have to deal with one set of paperwork 
rather than three identical sets would seem to many to be logical. And again, I note that this 
was all to the backdrop of Mr J having built a relationship of trust with Mr and Ms S.
The fact she knew by 2014 that Mr J was no longer her financial adviser
Openwork says in September 2012 Ms S was notified that the authorised financial adviser 
on her Sterling bond was no longer Mr J. And it says by 2014 Ms S was aware that Mr J was 
no longer her financial adviser. To be clear, the money Ms S says she lost in 2014 is the 
subject of a separate complaint and isnt considered in this decision. I refer to the events of 
2014 here only for the purpose of addressing Openworks argument that they ought 
reasonably to have made Ms S aware of cause for complaint in relation to the money she 
paid in October 2009.
Openwork has pointed to Sterling bond documents from September 2012 and ISA 
documents from January 2014 that list a different adviser of Bespoke as Ms Ss adviser. And 
its also referred to a recommendation letter Ms S was sent by that adviser dated 
20 August 2014 despite the fact Ms S says it was Mr J shed met and whod advised her 
rather than the new adviser.
Ms S accepts knowing that Mr J was no longer her financial adviser by that time. She says 
Mr J told her hed become a will and estate planning specialist but had retained a number of 
his old clients. She says he told her that it didnt matter he was no longer a registered 
financial adviser because all the investments had already been made and as there was no 
more money to be received, a regulated adviser wasnt necessary. She said that given their 
history and the fact he knew her needs, it made sense to stay with him.
In relation to the 20 August 2014 letter, Ms S said:
I accept that I should have read the letter date 20th August 2014 more carefully at the 
time and raised the discrepancies. However, a) I was not aware at that time that the 
investment figures were inaccurate and masked the fact that [Mr J] had stolen from 
us, and b) I did not challenge the letter coming from [the new adviser] at that time 
because [Mr J] told me that he was using [the new adviser] as his contact to 
authorise financial transactions/changes as he [(Mr J)] was no longer registered to do 
so. All my challenges to [Mr J] were responded to with plausible responses and I did 
not question this at the time as [Mr J] had spent several years building up my trust.
Im not persuaded that knowing Mr J was no longer a registered financial adviser ought 
reasonably to have made Ms S aware of cause for complaint. I note that Mr Js contract was 
terminated in December 2010. But Ms S says she wasnt made aware of his misconduct, and Ive seen no evidence that she was. Mr Js explanation that hed simply changed the 
type of work he was doing seems reasonable. And although, as Ms S accepts, the fact Mr J 
gave advice in August 2014 which was then followed up by a recommendation letter from a 
different adviser should have stood out, I dont think this was enough that it ought reasonably 
to have concerned Ms S. Again, Mr J had provided her an explanation for the involvement of 
a different adviser which was plausible. And as Ms S hadnt been told  by Openwork or 
anyone else  the reason why Mr J was no longer a financial adviser, there was nothing to 
contradict the explanations she was getting from Mr J.
Like the investigator, I also note that Mr J managed to defraud a number of customers 
across a number of years before his fraud was discovered. Its clear that he was very 
plausible and persuasive in how he carried out the fraud.
Taking everything into account, Ive not seen anything that satisfies me Ms S ought 
reasonably to have known of cause for complaint more than three years before she 
complained. Im therefore satisfied she made her complaint within the time limits.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Bespoke (and therefore Mr J) wasnt 
directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Openwork. Openwork is 
an authorised firm. Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities 
including advising on investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore 
consider complaints about Openwork. And this includes some complaints about its 
appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Openwork queried why the investigator didnt consider Section 39(4) and (6) FSMA in his 
view. But as the investigator explained in response, these are relevant when determining 
whether the principal has committed an offence  which isnt appropriate here. The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, I agree with Openwork that a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of 
its appointed representatives and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities 
Openwork was authorised to do. The starting point for deciding whether Openwork is 
responsible for the actions of Mr J here is to consider the terms of the contract between 
Openwork and Bespoke.
To decide whether Openwork is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Ms S (both on her own behalf and on behalf of the estate 
of the late Mr S) has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Openwork accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Ms S has complained about?
Ms S complains Mr J advised her and Mr S to invest money through him in a genuine 
investment but its now clear he kept the money himself. 
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
agreeing to advise on investments and agreeing to arrange deals in investments is a 
regulated activity under Article 64 RAO.
To satisfy the definition of the activity under Article 53 RAO there must be advice and, as the 
investigator explained, the advice must:
Be to a person in their capacity as an investor or potential investor.
Relate to an investment thats a security or relevant investment.Relate to the merits of buying, selling etc the investment.
Relate to a particular investment.
Openwork says its not clear that the intention was to invest in three identical Sterling bonds 
and any finding otherwise is contrary to the documentation from the time. And it says the 
reality is that Mr J wasnt advising on any kind of investment  the £270,000 was never put 
into an investment so there was no investment advice. Instead, it says Mr J was simply 
stealing Mr and Ms Ss money and its this reality that should be considered.
Ive carefully considered everything Openwork has said. Unfortunately, there isnt much 
evidence available here. We know that Mr J did advise Mr and Ms S to invest £135,000 in a 
Sterling bond in October 2009 because theres a recommendation letter for it dated 
16 October 2009. And Im satisfied the Sterling bond was a specified investment. This 
therefore amounted to a regulated activity. But Openwork says this recommendation letter 
doesnt cover the other £270,000 that was paid in October 2009 and then misappropriated. 
And it says the fact there arent recommendation letters for the other £270,000 suggests 
advice wasnt given to invest that money into a specified investment.
I dont agree. As Ive already said, Ms S has consistently and plausibly explained that the 
intention was to make an identical investment for each of their three children and they 
believed they were only given one set of documentation because the documentation for 
each was identical. She and Mr S gave Mr J three cheques for £135,000 which all cleared 
within a short space of time. And if it wasnt the intention that all three amounts were to be 
invested into the same type of Sterling bond with one set of documentation being relevant for 
all three, the alternative is that Mr and Ms S gave Mr J £270,000 for something that has no 
documentation at all. 
I accept the 16 October 2009 recommendation letter only refers to one investment of 
£135,000; that documentation was never issued in relation to the £270,000 that was 
misappropriated; and that it seems only one of the three October 2009 cheques was made 
out to Sterling with the remaining two being to Bespoke. And I also accept the returns that 
were paid went into Ms Ss account. But Im persuaded by Ms Ss recollection of events. And 
I think its most likely the fact she and Mr S didnt question the lack of documentation for the 
other £270,000 and the cheques being made out to different businesses is simply reflective 
of their states of mind at the time and the level of trust Mr J had built.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied its most likely Mr J advised Mr and Ms S to 
invest £405,000 into three separate Sterling bonds in October 2009. Its also my view that 
Mr J agreed to arrange those investments.
I accept that handling client money isnt a regulated activity. But Im satisfied that if an 
adviser advises a client to invest in a specified investment, theres regulated investment 
advice even if the adviser then intercepts the payment and steals the money. This is 
because, as the investigator explained, although buying an investment naturally follows 
investment advice, the actual purchase isnt part of the definition of the regulated activity of 
advising on investments. The subsequent arranging of the deal is a separate regulated 
activity under Article 25 RAO  even if the two activities normally run one into the other 
without much thought being given to that process.
I therefore dont agree that Mr Js fraudulent intention not to arrange the recommended 
investments (for £270,000 of the money) means that he didnt advise Mr and Ms S. 
Openwork has referred to Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc (1999) and judicial comments 
about a property in Goa in R (TenetConnect Services Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin). But Im satisfied the circumstances here can be distinguished 
because Mr J advised Mr and Ms S and he carried out a regulated activity when he did so. I 
therefore also havent needed to consider where the money came from and so I agree this 
case can be distinguished from R (TenetConnect Services Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman 
Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin). 
Did Openwork accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr J acting for?
To answer whether Openwork accepted responsibility for the acts complained of, the first 
question I need to satisfy myself of is whether Mr J was acting for Openwork when carrying 
out any of the acts.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied he was. I say this because the recommendation 
letter dated 16 October 2009 was on Bespoke headed paper with an Openwork footer and 
included a paragraph explaining the relationship with Openwork:
As I have explained to you, I am a member of Openwork, which is a network of 
financial advisers. We are committed to ensuring that the financial advice provided is 
suitable for your current needs given the information you have provided. If this proves 
not to be the case, Openwork guarantees to put it right.
He also requested that the two cheques that were misappropriated were made payable to 
Bespoke. And when he paid the fictitious monthly returns to Ms S they appeared on her 
statements as being from Bespoke.
I havent seen any evidence that he held himself out as representing any other businesses 
for these events. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Openwork accepted 
responsibility for the acts complained about under the agreement it had with Bespoke.
The agreement with Bespoke
Openwork has accepted that Mr J was allowed to give advice on Sterling bonds under the 
appointed representative agreement. And this matches what Ive seen.
The Franchise Contract Ive been given as what was in place at the time said:
[The Franchisor] agrees to accept responsibility for the Franchisees activities only to 
the extent required by Section 39 of [FSMA] and to the extent that the Franchisee is 
expressly authorised to carry on such activities pursuant to this Contract. The 
Franchisee has no authority from the Franchisor to sell any financial services or 
plans other than the Services or the Plans or to carry on any other Regulated Activity.
And the Compliance Manual of the same date went on to say:
Your appointment is restricted to obtaining applications for the Plans and Services 
arranged through Openwork
You have no authority from Openwork to sell any other financial services or products 
or to carry on any other investment business other than those offered through 
Openwork
If you carry on any kind of business other than your Openwork permitted activities, 
you must notify Openwork and run it as a separate business, in separate premises and clearly distinct from Openwork unless you have obtained consent in writing from 
Openwork.
Plans was defined as:
any policy or investment contract offered by our Product Providers via Openwork (or, 
where the context permits, its competitors).
And Services was defined as:
Any services offered or arranged via Openwork (or where the context permits, its 
competitors).
There was a list of prohibited activities in the Compliance Manual, but none of those seem 
to be relevant in the circumstances here. And Sterling bonds were on the product wheel Ive 
been given dated June 2009 which shows products that were allowed.
Openwork has pointed to the fact that it wasnt allowed to handle client money and that the 
agreement it had with Bespoke specifically forbid Bespoke from doing so too. As the 
investigator explained, theres no doubt that Mr J breached the agreement with Openwork 
when he misappropriated Mr and Ms Ss money. But that doesnt mean Openwork isnt 
responsible for his actions.
Its clear from a number of recent court cases that breaches of some terms of appointed 
representative agreements will work to exclude responsibility for a principal, and others 
wont. 
In Ovcharenko v Investuk [2017] EWHC 2114, HHJ Waksman said the following:
the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry out 
regulated activities, so that they have a long stop liability target which is the party 
which granted permission to the authorised representative in the first place. In my 
judgment, section 39(3) is a clear and separate statutory route to liability. It does no 
more and no less than enable the claimant, without law, to render the second 
defendant liable where there have been defaults on the part of the authorised 
representative in the carrying out of the business and which responsibility had been 
accepted
[Counsel for the principal] has relied upon certain other provisions within the 
authorised representative agreementHe relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply a 
promise by [the appointed representative] to [the principal] that it will not do anything 
outside clause 3
All that does is regulate the position inter se between [the appointed representative] 
and [the principal]. It says nothing about the scope of the liability of [the principal] to 
the claimants under section 39(3). The same point can be made in respect of clause 
4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in breach of 
section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgment and the following description of the clause] which limits 
the activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable law or regulation". 
Again, that is a promise made inter se. 
The reason for those promises is obvious. [The principal] will be, as it were, on the 
hook to the claimants as in respect of the defaults of [the appointed representative] and if those defaults have arisen because [the appointed representative] has 
exceeded what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives 
a right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of [the principal] against [the 
appointed representative]. If [counsel for the principal] was correct, it would follow 
that any time there was any default on the part of an authorised representative, for 
example, by being in breach of COBS, that very default will automatically take the 
authorised representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take [the principal] outside the scope of section 39(3), in which 
case its purpose as a failsafe protection for the client will be rendered nugatory; that 
is an impossible construction and I reject it.
The judge in TenetConnect Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] EWHC 459 
(Admin) agreed with the above.  In that case the network principal had argued it wasnt 
responsible for advice to invest in an investment in which it didnt authorise the appointed 
representative to deal. Mr Justice Ouseley said: 
the decisions in Martin v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [counsel for 
the principal]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, 
express or implied, to act as he did on [the principals] behalf, nor was he held out by 
[the principal] as having such authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So, its clear the courts think at least some conditions on the authority given to an appointed 
representative agreement only apply as between the parties and dont affect the principals 
responsibility under Section 39 FSMA.
In the Anderson v Sense Network case I referred to above, Mr Justice Jacobs also said:
I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular transaction was within the scope 
of the AR's actual authority
In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered the scope of Clause 3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case, and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was 
"firmly encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised representative 
agreement"He said that the "business for which responsibility had been accepted 
encompasses the services set out in Clause 3 of the authorised representative 
agreement". Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the 
AR agreement which imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, 
not to offer inducements, and an obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The 
judge considered that these restrictions were matters which applied between the 
principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect liability under s.39.
Most recently, in TenetConnect, Ouseley J applied the decisions in both Martin and 
Ovcharenko in circumstances where it was common ground that liability under s.39 
"was not to be determined as a matter of the contractual law of agency"The basis 
of the decision in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice on "unregulated" 
investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice on regulated investments, 
which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope of section 39, and the question of the 
business for which the principal has accepted responsibility, it is relevant to consider 
the terms of agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit in the decision 
that if the advice on the unregulated investments had not been sufficiently closely 
linked to advice which the AR was authorised to give, then there would have been no 
liability under section 39.I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to 
take a broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which he has 
accepted responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a 
particular transaction, for example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an 
inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no authority to advise on a related 
transaction (TenetConnect), or because certain duties needed to be fulfilled before a 
product was offered, does not mean that the transaction in question falls outside the 
scope of the relevant "business" for which responsibility is taken. Equally, the 
approach must not be so broad that it becomes divorced from the terms of the very 
AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has accepted 
responsibility for the business in question.
In the present case, I agree with [the principal] that the scheme, and advice in 
connection with that scheme, were well beyond the scope of the "business" for which 
[the principal] accepted responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond 
serious argument that the activities of [the appointed representative]in relation to 
the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising upon it, were wholly 
unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business of a financial adviser to operate a 
scheme for taking deposits from clients.
And in the Court of Appeal, Lord Justice Richards said:
I do not agree with Mr Sims next submission that it is impossible to distinguish 
between what and how, so that the only sensible answer is to define the 
authorised persons responsibility by reference to its authority to conduct business of 
a prescribed, generic description. In my view, it will be a rare case which presents 
any difficulty in distinguishing between what activity may be carried on and how a 
permitted activity is carried on.
All this means a principal is responsible for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting within their actual authority. It also means that sometimes a principal is 
responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority. And 
sometimes a principal isnt responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their 
actual authority. And the caselaw indicates that some clauses are akin to what the 
appointed representative can do which means a principal isnt responsible if theyre 
breached; whereas some are akin to certain duties [that need] to be fulfilled or how they 
can do it and a breach of those means a principal is responsible.
Here, Im satisfied that the fact Mr J handled client money breached a restriction that was a 
matter which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect liability 
under s.39. And Im satisfied the circumstances can be distinguished from Frederick & Ors v 
Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431 which Openwork has quoted as in this case, the 
handing over of the money did occur in the course of his agency for the respondent.
So, Im satisfied that Openwork did accept responsibility for Mr J advising Mr and Ms S to 
invest in Sterling bonds. Because Im satisfied Openwork accepted responsibility for the acts 
complained about here under the agreement it had with Bespoke, I havent needed to go on 
to consider issues of apparent authority and whether Openwork made any representations to 
Mr and Ms S that Mr J had its authority.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Openwork has argued that the merits of Mr and Ms Ss complaint shouldnt be considered 
until the issue of jurisdiction is resolved. In particular, it thinks that the approach to merits 
issues  that theyre decided on the basis of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  influenced the investigators approach to jurisdiction matters.
Ive set out above my view on jurisdiction. Ive made it clear how Ive approached the issue 
and that I havent based any part of my view on a consideration of whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
As its my view that I have jurisdiction and as both parties have been given the opportunity to 
comment on both jurisdiction and merits and, given the nature of our role to resolve 
complaints which are within our jurisdiction speedily and with minimal formality, I now set out 
my conclusions on the merits of Mr and Ms Ss complaint also. I dont agree that the DISP 
rules or the caselaw Openwork has quoted mean this has to be done in separate decisions. 
And I note that the investigator told Openwork on several occasions that this might be the 
next step and to make sure it made any arguments it had in relation to merits and 
compensation.
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr J advised Mr and Mrs S to make three investments in 
Sterling bonds but then failed to arrange two of those investments. He failed to do so 
because he was acting dishonestly. Instead, he paid Mr and Ms Ss money into his account 
and used it for his own purposes. In order to maintain the concealment of his theft he 
provided them with fabricated monthly investment returns.
Mr Js conduct in not arranging the recommended investments as hed agreed to do but 
instead stealing the money caused Mr and Ms S to lose money. Theyve also lost the 
investment return they could have earned on their money. And Ms S has suffered 
considerable trouble and upset in being the subject of Mr Js conduct.
Is it fair and reasonable that Openwork compensate Ms S and the estate of Mr S?
Clearly Openwork didnt actually authorise Mr J to steal Mr and Ms Ss money. And it didnt 
receive it. So, the question is whether its fair to require Openwork to compensate Ms S and 
the estate of Mr S for the losses?
Ive found that Openwork is responsible for Mr Js conduct in relation to Mr and Ms S 
because I consider the law would impose liability on Openwork for his actions. So, it isnt 
necessarily unfair to require Openwork to pay compensation for the losses caused by Mr Js 
dishonesty. I dont have to follow the law but, bearing in mind the legal position, I do think it 
fair and reasonable to take as my starting point that I should ask Openwork to compensate 
Ms S and the estate of Mr S for the effect of Mr Js actions unless theres a good reason why 
it shouldnt do so.
Openwork has said, which I referred to above when looking at our jurisdiction, that Mr and 
Ms S acted unreasonably in handing over the cheques to Mr J and shouldnt be considered 
to have reasonably relied on any representation of authority by him. Ive considered these 
same points again in order to decide whether its fair and reasonable to require Openwork to 
compensate Ms S and the estate of Mr S. For the same reasons set out previously, I dont 
think Mr and Ms S acted unreasonably in their belief that Mr J was conducting genuine 
Openwork business and was acting in their interests. They werent careless. They were the 
innocent victims of a dishonest financial adviser.
In my view its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to require Openwork to 
compensate Ms S and the estate of Mr S.Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms S 
and the estate of Mr S as close to the position they would probably now be in if theyd not 
entrusted Mr J with advising them on their investments.
In the particular circumstances of this case, it seems most likely that Mr and Ms S would 
have invested the £270,000 that was misappropriated into the same type of Sterling bond 
that they actually did invest £135,000 in in October 2009. They seem to have been happy 
with this recommendation and it appears to have been in line with their risk profile.
Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Ms Ss 
circumstances and objectives at the time.
What should Openwork do?
To compensate Ms S and the estate of Mr S fairly, Openwork must:
Contact Sterling to obtain a notional value, as at the date of this decision, of the 
£270,000 Mr and Ms S thought theyd invested. The £270,000 should be treated as 
though itd been invested into two Sterling bonds the same as the one they did in fact 
invest in on the same date.
Pay this notional value  less money returned (explained below)  to Ms S and 
Mr Ss estate.
Pay to Ms S £700 for the considerable trouble and upset shes been caused. What 
happened clearly caused Ms S a considerable amount of upset, particularly in light of 
the circumstances at the time she and Mr S initially sought advice from Mr J.
Pay interest on my award of 8% simple a year from the date of this decision to the 
date of settlement if compensation isnt paid within 28 days of Openwork being 
notified of acceptance of the decision. Income tax may be payable on any interest.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear, simple format.
Money returned to Ms S
Mr J made monthly payments to Ms S under the pretence of investment returns. A 
proportion of these should be deducted from the notional value at the point they were 
actually paid so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. Theres 
a large number of payments, so to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Openwork totals all 
those payments and deducts the correct proportion at the end to determine the value instead 
of deducting periodically. 
The proportion to be deducted will change over time  initially 100% of the investment 
returns will have related to the £270,000 thats the subject of this decision, then 90% when 
the first set of top ups were made in March/April 2010 and then just under 82% when the 
next set of top ups were made in December 2010.
I also understand that Ms S has received two payments under the Proceeds of Crime Act 
2002. Again, Openwork should deduct a proportion of these from the notional value at the 
point they were actually paid so they cease to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on.The proportion to be deducted here will be £270,000 as a proportion of the total amount Mr J 
misappropriated from Ms S which I understand to be £354,000.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £160,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is that Openwork Limited should pay Ms S and the 
estate of Mr S the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 plus 
any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £160,000, I recommend that Openwork Limited pays Ms S and the estate of Mr S the 
balance. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Openwork Limited doesnt 
have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Ms S and the estate of Mr S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms S and the estate of Mr S may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman