DRN-4462025
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that hes been charged a fee for the packaged bank account hes held with 
Lloyds Bank PLC for many years.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr G has held a current account with Lloyds since 1996 and has upgraded it more than 
once to a packaged account, whereby hes paid a monthly fee which entitled him to 
certain benefits. The most recent upgrade, and the only one Mr G has asked us to 
consider under this complaint, took place in November 2007 when he moved to a 
Premier account. 
Mr G recalls being pressured into moving to the Premier account  he initially refused, 
but then agreed to, the upgrade after being told he wouldnt get the loan he wanted, 
unless he upgraded. He says he quickly realised he was being charged a fee and 
noticed that this increased over the years. But he didnt realise he could complain until 
earlier this year.
Lloyds initially said that Mr H had brought his complaint too late. But our investigator 
disagreed and the bank then consented to us considering the merits of the complaint 
about the Premier upgrade. Another of our investigators then looked into the merits of 
Mr Gs complaint and concluded that Lloyds had not mis-sold the account. Mr G 
disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and, for much the 
same reasons, I dont think the Premier account was not mis-sold. I wont repeat everything 
the investigator said but I note, in particular that:
In his initial submissions to the bank and this service, Mr H said the upgrade took place 
in November 2005 and he was looking to take out a loan then too. But the banks records 
indicate the upgrade this complaint concerns took place two years later, in 2007 and 
there was no loan taken out then. Mr G had previously upgraded his account in 
December 2005 and a loan was taken out soon after. Memories fade over time and I 
think its possible Mr G has confused what happened when he upgraded in 2005 with 
what happened in 2007. As Ive already said, this complaint only concerns the sale of the 
Premier account in 2007 and Ive seen little which supports Mr Gs assertion that he was 
pressured into upgrading then. The banks notes from the time indicate Mr G wanted to 
upgrade in order to get a cheaper overdraft and other benefits and he was also 
considering upgrading his credit card. Mr G had two other packaged bank accounts prior 
to the upgrade and I think its more likely than not the bank explained what options were 
available to him  which probably included talking about the fees and related benefits  
and this enabled him to make an informed choice to upgrade to Premier from his existing 
packaged account.
Ive seen nothing which suggests Mr G couldnt, or hasnt, derived benefits from holding 
the Premier account. As he points out, he didnt change his overdraft limit at the time but 
the Premier account increased, by £250, the interest-free portion of his overdraft limit 
and reduced the interest rate he would have to pay on the rest. The banks records also 
show he made claims on the breakdown cover in 2018 (which was after his wife stopped 
working for a breakdown assistance provider) and he made three enquiries about the 
travel insurance cover between 2014 and 2018. Its possible Mr G hasnt taken 
advantage of all the benefits on offer, and for which he was eligible, over the years. But 
that, in and of itself, doesnt mean the account was unsuitable or that the fees should be 
refunded. 
Mr G has noted that the account benefits have reduced over time and I think its likely 
hes aware of this because he received some correspondence from the bank, over the 
years, about changes to the Premier fee and benefits. Mr G suggests he didnt realise he 
could complain about the original sale of the account. But Ive not seen anything which 
suggests he thought he had to keep the packaged account forever. So if he was 
unhappy with the account benefits, given the fee he was being charged, then he could 
have researched this online and/or discussed the situation with the bank and 
downgraded his account. 
In all the circumstances, I think its likely Mr G was aware he was paying for a packaged 
bank account and made use of some of the benefits. I cant fairly conclude that the account 
was mis-sold to him and/or that the bank should refund the account fees hes paid over the 
years.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman