DRN-3016070
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited undervalued his car when 
it settled a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.  
What happened
Mr B's car was stolen. He claimed on his policy. Admiral (eventually) said that at the time of 
the theft the market value of Mr Bs car was £15,800. So it settled his claim based on that 
valuation.
Mr B thought Admiral had undervalued his car and brought his complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 26 July 2021. For ease I've copied the relevant extract below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B thinks Admiral undervalued his car and said he couldn't find a replacement for a similar 
sum. He also noted that two of the relevant trade guides provided valuations for his car 
higher than the figure Admiral had used. So Ive looked carefully to see if Admiral's valuation 
was fair.
Our usual approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the trade guides. We find 
these more reliable than figures cars are advertised for. That's because the trade guides use 
extensive research of likely selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for 
isn't necessarily the price it sells for, if in fact it sells at all.
I should also say there's been some dispute about the mileage of Mr Bs car at the time of 
the theft. Mileage being one of the factors that affects a cars valuation. Mr B doesn't know 
his cars exact mileage. But he thinks it was around 74,000 miles. Admiral said the mileage 
on Mr Bs car was 73,284 miles when it was MOTd, around six months before the theft. And, 
as Mr B had estimated hed do around 6,000 miles in the policy year, Admiral calculated 
what it believed Mr Bs car would have done by the time it was stolen, arriving at a figure of 
76,427 miles. Admiral used that mileage when valuing Mr Bs car.
But I think Mr Bs stated mileage of 74,000 is more likely to be nearer to the mark. Thats 
because he drove the car and would have seen the odometer whenever he did so. So hes 
more likely to have known what the actual mileage was. Also, his estimate of 6,000 miles 
would have been the upper limit of the distance he thought the car might cover in the year, 
rather than the distance he thought he would undoubtedly cover. And, at the time of the 
theft, the lockdown had been in operation for around six weeks, and thats likely to have 
reduced Mr Bs mileage. So I think its fair to accept Mr Bs recollection of how far his car had 
travelled.
I think its commonly understood that the second hand car market is changeable and prices 
differ between dealers etc. And not every car will be sold for a fair market price; some people 
will overpay, others will get a bargain. So the sale price of second hand cars can vary fairly 
dramatically. As a result the guides rarely agree on an exact valuation. And in those 
circumstances we think a fair way to find a cars market value is to use an average of the 
various figures given by the trade guides. Ive ran the valuations from three of the relevant 
trade guides myself, using the date Mr Bs car was stolen and with 74,000 miles on the 
clock. I wasn't able to find a valuation from a fourth trade guide (as that can only produce 
valuations within three months of the relevant date) but Ive used the figure Mr B provided 
from that guide, when he ran the valuations himself shortly after the theft. The four 
valuations are: £15,800; £16,726; £17,570 and £19,425.
The first three trade guides all have valuations within a range of £1,770 of each other. But 
the highest valuation, of £19,425, is £1,855 more than the largest of the other three, so I 
don't think its in line with the others. And where, as here, one of the guides is out of step 
with the others then wed usually say its reasonable to disregard it. So I'm going to discount 
that highest valuation. The other three figures produce an average of £16,699. And I think 
that represents a fair market value for Mr Bs car at the time of the theft.
It follows that I think its fair for Admiral to increase its settlement of Mr Bs claim by (£16,699 
- £15,800) £899. It should add simple interest to that sum as set out below. And, as 
Admirals undervaluation has clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr B, I 
think it should pay him £100 compensation to address that. 
Developments 
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. Admiral didn't make any further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr B nor Admiral objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to change it.   
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr B a further £899 to fairly settle his claim for the theft of his car. It should 
add simple interest to that sum, at a rate of 8% a year, from the date of Mr Bs claim 
to the date it makes payment to him.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman