DRN-3289372
The complaint
Mrs B said that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent 
to her. 
What happened
Likely Loans provided the following loan to Mrs B:
Date taken Loan amount Number of monthly 
instalmentsMonthly  
repayment*
February 
2016£1,200 30 £72.02
Mrs B told us that Likely Loans didnt properly investigate affordability before approving her 
for this loan as it failed to check her income or bank statements. She told us she was still 
trying to pay off the loan when it should have been finished a couple of years ago and Mrs B 
believed the loan was mis-sold. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view. In particular, she said the investigator had 
relied on incorrect information regarding her income and that Likely Loans had misled her 
about the loan term. She also felt that if proper checks had been done Likely Loans should 
have seen evidence of arrears and missed payments on other accounts. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
When Mrs B applied for this loan, Likely Loans asked her for information about her finances 
and carried out credit checks. It has sent me a summary of the results it obtained.
Likely Loans told us that Mrs B declared her annual gross income was £5,320 and it worked 
out from this information that this would give her a monthly income of around £443 - which 
seems a broadly reasonable calculation to me.
I've taken into account that Mrs B disputes this  she told us that she declared total annual 
income of just £532. 
As things stand, whilst Ive no reason to doubt that Mrs B is certain about everything shes 
told us, that isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold the complaint. 
I havent seen Mrs Bs online application. But Mrs B hasnt sent me anything to show me that 
shes right about what her income was at the time. If she has information she can send me 
(for instance any payslips, a tax return or bank statements covering the last few months of 
2015 and the start of 2016) then I invite her to do so and I will consider this further.  
Where the information is inconsistent or incomplete, as some of it is here, I must make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened taking into account all the 
information thats available. 
This means making some reasonable assumptions where theres only limited information. 
And I must be impartial.
On balance, it seems unlikely to me that Mrs B would have met the lending criteria for this 
loan or that Likely Loans would have accepted her application if she had declared an annual 
income that would have worked out at just £44 or so per month. So what Mrs B says about 
this at the moment isnt enough for me to uphold her complaint. 
The credit checks Likely Loans carried out returned information which showed that at the 
time of lending Mrs B was meeting her commitments on all active accounts and paying as 
expected. Likely Loans was aware that she had a joint mortgage and joint current account, it 
saw she owed a balance of £921 on a mail order account which cost her £34 per month. It 
also saw an outstanding debt of £31 owing to a utility provider but it looked like this would be 
cleared by the next monthly repayment.  After making allowance for her paying the debts shown on its credit checks plus an amount 
in respect of her mortgage, Likely Loans felt that the amount of disposable income she had 
available was ample to cover the monthly repayments on its loan. It worked out that after 
meeting her outgoings and paying £72.02 for this loan, she should still have at least £86 to 
cover other spending. And given what she had declared about her circumstances, which 
suggested that the main living costs were covered by a different member of the household, 
Likely Loans felt that the loan was affordable for Mrs B.
Mrs B says Likely Loans shouldve known she was in financial difficulties at the time it lent to 
her. But I think its fair to say that all the information Likely Loans had gathered tended to 
suggest that Mrs B seemed to be managing her credit without any signs that she had 
ongoing money problems or a serious debt problem. 
It wouldnt be unusual for someone applying for this type of lending to have other debt  and 
sometimes even an impaired credit history. And these wouldnt necessarily be fair reasons 
not to lend. I dont think the amount of debt shown on Mrs Bs credit checks seemed 
excessive having regard to the income Likely Loans had recorded or what it understood 
about her circumstances. I havent seen anything else revealed in the credit checks Likely 
Loans carried out that would be enough to make me think that a responsible lender 
shouldve realised it needed to find out more before lending or that it should have refused 
the loan application. 
Id expect Likely Loans to decide Mrs Bs lending application based on the information it was 
reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. When a lender carries out a credit search, the 
information it sees doesnt usually provide the same level of detail that a persons own credit 
search will. And it isnt necessarily up to date  that can depend on when other creditors 
have reported information and when its been recorded by the credit reference agency. A 
lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, or some information might be 
missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday and short term lenders report to 
the same credit reference agencies. This means that some information Mrs B might expect 
to see reflected on a credit check may not have been identified by a credit check done by 
Likely Loans when she applied for this loan. 
To sum up, at the moment, based on everything I've seen and been told so far, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for Likely Loans to provide this loan to Mrs B as there wasnt anything 
apparent in the information it had to suggest Mrs B wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Likely Loans to 
probe any more deeply into Mrs Bs finances or ask Mrs B to prove what she was declaring 
(by requiring her to send in her bank statements for instance) or check other information 
sources to verify what she had told them (or omitted to say) about her financial 
circumstances. 
I've taken into account that Mrs B felt that she was misled about the loan term and Ive 
thought about what Mrs B has said about the high cost of the loan. I can see from the 
account notes that it looks like she wanted to pay the loan back over 24 months when she 
first approached Likely Loans. But the lender ultimately offered her a loan over 30 months as 
it felt this was more affordable for her. That seems reasonable to me - I think Mrs B will 
already be aware that the monthly repayments she would need to make in order to repay the 
loan over a shorter term wouldve cost more per month. And Im mindful that around 
18 months or so into the loan term she had problems keeping the contractual monthly 
repayments she had signed up to make so a shorter loan term wouldnt have helped her to 
avoid this happening.I think its fair to say that all the important the loan details, including the 30 months loan term 
and the amount of interest payable over the contractual term were set out in the loan 
documents. Mrs B applied for this loan and she had to actively engage in the loan 
application process  this included signing a declaration next to where it said I have read 
the Terms & Conditions of the Agreement carefully before signing and By ticking the 
signature box you are signing this Agreement and agree to be legally bound by its terms.
Taking everything into account, I think Mrs B was aware she was taking this loan on terms 
she seemed happy to agree to at the time. 
Im sorry that Mrs B has an ongoing problem with debt and that repaying this loan has 
proved difficult for her. I accept that Mrs Bs actual circumstances possibly werent fully 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Likely Loans 
obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did 
something wrong. In this case, I dont think that Likely Loans did anything substantially 
wrong in deciding to lend this loan to Mrs B. And I havent seen enough to make me think 
that Likely Loans acted towards Mrs B in any other way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
Likely Loans seems to me to have responded fairly and reasonably when Mrs B had 
problems keeping up with the loan monthly repayments. And I cant fairly say it wasnt 
entitled to sell her debt or that it acted unfairly or unreasonably when it chose to do this.
Mrs B has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that she feels very strongly about her complaint. If I have not referred to each 
point shes raised or everything shes sent me its because I have nothing further I can 
usefully add to what our investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that 
my decision will be disappointing for Mrs B but I hope that setting things out as I've done 
helps to explain how I've reached my provisional view. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs B doest agree with what I've said and she has told me she had no earned income at the 
time and arrears on both her mortgage and a secured loan. She has also sent me an 
account statement in support of what she says about her secured loan.
I have heard nothing further from Likely Loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Mrs B for responding to my provisional decision. 
I appreciate that Mrs B feels strongly about what happened and she still holds a different 
view to me. I would like to assure her that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats 
been said, including her comments in response to my provisional decision. But Mrs B hasnt 
provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this case. Id already 
considered the main points she has mentioned above when thinking about my provisional 
decision and addressed all the points raised which had a bearing on the outcome.
To be clear, having arrears on a mortgage account and a secured loan account isnt enough 
on its own for me to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Thats because Mrs B didnt provide this 
information to the lender at the time and the lenders own independent checks, which I think were reasonable and proportionate in these particular circumstances, didnt reveal this 
information. So I cant fairly say that Likely Loans should have known about this information 
when assessing this loan application or that it made an unfair lending decision. 
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman