DRN-4342851
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with how Society of Lloyd's (SoL) have dealt with a claim they 
made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have made several claims under their legal expenses insurance policy. Most 
of these have not been covered by the policy and have been subject to separate complaints 
considered at this service. 
This complaint concerns Mr and Mrs Ss claim for misrepresentation and SoLs decision to 
pay them the remaining indemnity limit under their policy after solicitors refused to act further 
for them. In correspondence regarding this, Mr and Mrs S personal data was breached, and 
SoL offered them £50 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and explained to Mr and Mrs S he thought SoL 
hadnt done anything wrong in paying them the remaining indemnity limit of the policy. He 
did however think the compensation amount offered to Mr and Mrs S should be increased to 
£100.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. In doing so, they said that they are unhappy SoL is no longer providing 
them with a solicitor to pursue their legal action. They also commented they thought some of 
the other claims theyve made should also be covered by the policy and pursued by SoL.
The case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs S have strong views about what has happened and why they think 
SoL should continue to help them. Im also aware they have raised other claims with SoL 
against different parties but related to the same matter and, they think these should be 
progressed also. I wont however be looking at those in this decision. This is because each 
of those claims have already been assessed at this service under different references and 
Mr and Mrs S have received responses on them. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr and 
Mrs S, and by SoL, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts 
of the case.
The terms and conditions of the legal expenses policy sets out the following:
CONDITIONS WHICH APPLY TO THE LEGAL EXPENSES SECTION OF THE POLICY
Where the Insurers risk is affected by the Insureds failure to keep to these conditions the
Insurer can cancel Your policy, refuse a claim or withdraw from an on-going claim. The
Insurer also reserves the right to recover Legal Costs and Expenses from the Insured if
this happens.
1. The Insureds Responsibilities
An Insured must:
a. tell Us immediately of anything that may make it more costly or difficult for the Appointed 
Advisor to resolve the claim in the Insureds favour
b. cooperate fully with Us, give the Appointed Advisor any instructions We require, and 
keep them updated with progress of the claim and not hinder them
c. take reasonable steps to claim back Legal Costs and Expenses, Communication 
Costs, employment tribunal and employment appeal tribunal fees and, where recovered, 
pay them to the Insurer
d. keep Legal Costs and Expenses and Communication Costs as low as possible
e. allow the Insurer at any time to take over and conduct in the Insureds name, 
I can see that Mr and Mrs S were notified on several occasions that the way in which they 
were approaching their claim and corresponding with the parties involved was not helpful. 
They were also given adequate warning of the policy terms and what action could be taken if 
things didnt improve. 
The solicitors refused to act further in the case citing a lack of co-operation from Mr and 
Mrs S, confusing correspondence, refusal to respond to questions and communication by Mr 
and Mrs S to the third party which was potentially jeopardising the claim. 
Mr and Mrs S have argued the solicitor firm only took this action as it subsequently went into 
administration, however this assertion isnt backed by any evidence.  What is clear from the 
evidence that is available to me, is that the behaviour cited took place over a period of time, 
it was brought to the attention of Mr and Mrs S and improvements werent seen. Usually 
when a solicitor firm goes into administration existing clients are transferred to other firms. I 
think more likely than not, this would have happened had there not been any existing 
concerns. 
Having reviewed everything, I dont think SoL were unreasonable in taking the action that it 
did. Strictly speaking, in line with the policy terms, SoL could have withdrawn all cover. 
However, Im pleased to see here that it made a payment to Mr and Mrs S for the remaining 
indemnity limit.  I think this was a fair thing to do, the cost of seeing the legal action through 
to conclusion was, more likely than not, always going to exceed the indemnity limit for the 
policy and as such SoL would have paid out this money to lawyers in any event. 
SoL have admitted it caused trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs S by sharing details of their 
claim unintentionally with a third party, when it replied all to an email. I think £100 
compensation adequately reflects the impact its error had here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint against Society of Lloyd's. I direct 
Society of Lloyd's to pay Mr and Mrs S a total of £100 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman