DRN-2045512
The complaint
D, a limited company, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) opened the 
wrong kind of bank account for the company.
What happened
In 2018, D opened a bank account with RBS, having previously banked with a third party. D 
had asked for a client money account, but RBS mistakenly opened a business current 
account instead. RBS charged fees for the use of the business current account, but no fees 
would have been due for using a client money account. The error came to light in June 2019. 
It is not in dispute that this was RBSs error, and that D had been consistently using the 
account as if it were a client money account. It is not in dispute that Ds directors did not 
realise that an error had been made earlier than June 2019, which is when they complained 
to RBS, on behalf of D.
RBS apologised and upheld Ds complaint. It paid £250 compensation to D, refunded the 
charges, and opened a new client money account in August. (It also waived the charges for 
that two month period.) RBS invited one of Ds directors to tell it how much time she had 
spent on dealing with the administrative consequences of its mistake, so that it could 
reimburse D for that and for any expenses.
In December, D submitted an invoice for nearly £4,500. That included some more charges 
that had been incurred since August, 55 hours of time spent at £30 an hour, another six 
hours at £60 an hour, and corporation tax at 19% of the foregoing sums. However, RBS did 
not respond to this invoice or to Ds chasing emails. So Ds directors brought this complaint 
to our Service.
RBS did not agree to pay everything claimed in Ds invoice. It agreed to refund the further 
charges, which came to £105.35, and agreed to pay £15 an hour for the 61 hours claimed. It 
did not agree to pay corporation tax as well.
Our investigator thought that Ds offer was fair. He upheld Ds complaint only to the extent 
that he thought RBS should have responded to the invoice (which RBS accepted), and he 
recommended that RBS pay D another £150 compensation for that issue, in addition to what 
it had offered.
RBS accepted that recommendation, but Ds directors did not. One of them argued that £15 
an hour was less than the national living wage, and pointed out that the company had been 
put at regulatory risk by not keeping its clients money in a client money account. She said 
that D had lost some clients because they had been asked to update their records with Ds 
new bank account for the second time in a year. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to apologise to both parties for how long it has taken for this case to be assigned 
to an ombudsman.
National living wage is £8.72 an hour, not around double that amount.1 Although one of Ds 
directors has provided evidence of a third partys hourly rates for bookkeeping services, 
which start at £30 an hour (so I can see why she has claimed compensation at this rate), 
I dont think it follows that it would necessarily be fair to order RBS to reimburse her at that 
rate for her own time. I think £15 an hour is fair and reasonable.
There is no evidence about why D lost the clients it lost, and I wont infer that it must have 
been because they were asked to update Ds bank account details twice in a year. It may 
have been for other reasons. So I wont order RBS to pay compensation for that.
I recognise that it must have been alarming for Ds directors to discover that they had 
inadvertently been in breach of regulatory requirements. However, since the complainant in 
this case is the company, not the directors, I can only award compensation for distress or 
inconvenience caused to the company. A company, as a legal entity and not a natural 
person, cant feel distress or alarm and so I cant award compensation for that. A company 
can be caused inconvenience or loss, but since no disciplinary action or litigation was 
brought, no additional inconvenience or loss was caused to D in this regard. It is not my role 
to punish RBS by fining it for exposing D to a risk which did not materialise, only to 
compensate D for the consequences which did ensue.
Finally, I dont think it would be reasonable to require RBS to pay Ds corporation tax on the 
refunds or on the other compensation. Taking into account the £250 already paid, and the 
refund of all fees, I think the compensation RBS has offered for its original error is fair. I 
agree with the investigators recommendation to add a further £150 for RBS failing to 
respond to Ds invoice and subsequent communications.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay D:
£1,020.35, as it has offered to do (if it has not paid this already), and
another £150 compensation,
in addition to the £250 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ds directors (or 
either one of them) to accept or reject my decision on behalf of D before 21 December 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 See https://www.gov.uk/national-minimum-wage-rates (which covers both the minimum and the 
living wage).