DRN-3166252
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as P complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) blocked and closed its 
accounts, without giving advance notice and without explaining why it had done so. 
P is represented by one of its directors, Mr H, who believes Metros actions were motivated 
by discrimination on the grounds of his race.
What happened
On 8 August 2019, Metro blocked Ps accounts while it carried out a review. It didnt give P 
notice of the block and it didnt tell P why it had done so. As part of the review, Metro 
requested information from Mr H, which he provided swiftly. Metro didnt complete its review 
until 22 April 2020, at which point it issued P with 60 days notice to close its accounts.
During the block, Mr H had complained to Metro and had instructed solicitors to negotiate a 
release. Metro issued a final response to Ps complaint on 23 August 2021, but it didnt give 
P any further information, and Metro maintained the account blocks until it issued the notice 
to close.
Mr H brought Ps complaint to our service. He wanted Metro to reinstate Ps accounts and 
explain the reasons for the block. 
Mr H also complained about Metros actions in connection with his own personal accounts, 
born out of identical circumstances, but I will address that complaint separately because Mr 
H is a separate legal entity to the company.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Metro was fulfilling its statutory 
obligations by blocking and reviewing the accounts, that it had acted in accordance with the 
terms of Ps accounts, and that it had acted fairly.
Mr H didnt accept our investigators view. He said Metro had breached its own terms of 
business, Financial Conduct Authority Regulations, and European Union Regulations. He 
detailed the losses he was claiming as a result of Metros actions and he asked for an 
ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of P, I would need to be satisfied that Metro acted 
unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im satisfied 
Metro acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ps accounts. 
And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that governed the 
relationship between Metro and P.
I appreciate Mr H is frustrated that Metro hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about Ps complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, Metro 
doesnt have to give a reason for blocking an account. So, I cant say it did anything wrong 
by not giving Mr H this information when he complained. And, having investigated Metros 
rationale myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the accounts and complete the 
investigation in the manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated P unfairly.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps Metro took to see if it 
acted fairly.
The terms of Ps accounts say that Metro can close the same as long as it gives at least 60 
days notice. And I can see Metro gave P 60 days notice in its letter dated 22 April 2020, so 
it complied with its contractual obligations.
Further, theres no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, for Metro to disclose the 
reasons behind its decision to close Ps accounts. That being the case, I see no basis upon 
which I can reasonably make an award in favour of P.
Delays
Mr H has also claimed P suffered losses because Metro declined it access to the funds in its 
accounts for an extended period of time. And, while I have said above that it was entitled to 
block the accounts, Metro must complete its review in a reasonable timeframe. So, Ive 
looked at the reasons for the block and the actions it carried out during its investigation.
Having done so, I wont be asking Metro to do anything further to put things right for P. In the 
circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied Metro acted promptly in completing its 
review, and that there were no unreasonable delays. As such, it follows that I cant 
reasonably ask Metro to pay compensation given Im not satisfied it treated P unfairly.
Finally, in terms of discrimination, our investigator has explained our services role. That is to 
say that it is for the Courts to determine if a business has acted unlawfully. Our role is to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of each particular case. In 
reaching that decision, we will consider various factors including relevant law and what we 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So although its for the Courts to say whether or not Metro has breached the Equality Act 
2010, Im required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other 
things when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular 
complaint.
I did so as part of my review of this case and, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied 
that Metros actions were motivated by its duty to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and not Mr Hs race.I know this isnt the answer Mr H was hoping for, and I appreciate the limited information Ive 
given him wont answer many of the questions he had. But I hope he can take some comfort 
from what Ive said and in light of an independent third-party reviewing Metros actions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman