DRN-3276452
The complaint
In 2020 Mr M instructed the liquidation of investments in his Self-Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP); there were two shareholdings and a mutual fund holding (the India UTI Fund (the 
fund)) in the SIPP; they were held in a General Investment Account (GIA) on the 
investment platform provided by Stocktrade (acquired and owned by Alliance Trust Savings 
Limited (ATS) at the time and, subsequently, Embark Investment Services Limited 
(Embark)); on 20 March his pension provider (Curtis Banks (CB)) submitted to ATS the 
instruction to liquidate the GIA, this was actioned on 23 March and the two shareholdings 
were sold and settled by 25 March; the fund was sold on 26 March but the transaction was 
not settled/concluded until June; his complaint is about the cause of this delay and the tax 
liability arising from it.
What happened
Mr M says he needed completion of all the liquidations by the end of the 2019/2020 tax year 
for a specific tax planning purpose; that all his holdings were listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and had good liquidity (which was one of his reasons for investing in them); that 
he expected prompt and timely liquidations, as was the case for the two shareholdings; that 
the main reason completion of the fund liquidation was delayed for over two months was 
because ATS had misrepresented its ability to deal the fund on its platform, without 
previously taking steps, at or around the point of acquiring Stocktrade, to engage in and 
complete the requisite due diligence exercise with the fund manager; that this resulted from 
its acquisition of Stocktrade and the fund managers need to apply due diligence to its new 
relationship with ATS before permitting trades in its fund on the platform; and that, instead, 
that exercise happened, afresh, during the sale of his holding in the fund, hence the delay.
He considers that ATS conducted itself in a misleading, irresponsible and negligent fashion 
in the above respect and that its conduct directly resulted in a tax liability of almost £40,000 
that would not have arisen had the liquidation of the fund (and payment) been concluded by 
the end of the tax year. He seeks compensation in the amount of the tax liability, and he 
invites this service to consider interest on the compensation amount and an award to him for 
the trouble, distress and inconvenience he was caused in the matter.
ATS and then Embark responded to the complaint and disputed it; they say no delay in the 
completion and settlement (including payment) of the funds liquidation was caused by them; 
that the relevant fund manager was entitled to apply its due diligence exercise but it had 
previously (before liquidation of the fund) provided it with the documentation it required; that 
it subsequently sought new and unexpected documents/information without prior notice; that 
it was the fund managers process in this respect, and refusal to accept a simpler due 
diligence suggestion, that caused the delay; and that they have no responsibility for the fund 
managers conduct.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he found as follows:
Copies of correspondence between ATS and the fund manager are no longer 
available. Embark says it no longer has access to them. However, it has shared 
records of events captured in the root cause analysis it conducted in addressing the 
complaint at the time. This service has sought, without success, evidence directly 
from the fund manager. 
Based on ATS records, the chronology of key events in the fund liquidation was  on 
27 March the fund manager asked ATS for due diligence submissions, ATS 
considered that it had already submitted the relevant documents so on 30 March it 
chased the fund manager for receipt of the liquidation proceeds, it recognised that 
new and jurisdictional due diligence requirements applied because of the fund 
managers overseas status, on 31 March ATS emailed the fund manager to check on 
its receipt of the documents it sent, ATS chased further on 1 and 3 April, on 6 and 8 
April the fund manager asked for additional documents, ATS suggested a simplified 
due diligence exercise on 9 April, the fund manager declined the suggestion on 10 
April, ATS submitted further documents on 14 April and chased for confirmation of 
trade on 16 April, then ATS identified and the fund manager corrected a details of 
trade error, on 22 and 24 April further information that had been requested was 
provided, on 27 April the fund manager provided the contract note for the sale, on 28 
April it gave notice that payment would take around three weeks due to COVID-19, 
ATS chased payment on 27 May and 1 June, on 2 June the fund manager queried 
the verification of bank details, this was resolved on 3 June and payment was made 
on 5 June.
The issue is the due diligence process that delayed completion and payment. Mr M 
says ATS should have ensured it could trade the fund before representing that it 
could. ATS could trade the fund, the matter was about the fund manager having to 
apply its due diligence checks and ATS was not in control of, or responsible for, that. 
On its part, and based on the chronology of events, ATS provided information to the 
process in a timely manner. On the same basis  and given that after ATS completed 
its information provisions on 24 April the transaction was not completed by the fund 
manager until 5 June  it appears unlikely that the transaction would have been 
completed by the end of the tax year even if the due diligence exercise had been 
concluded prior to the instruction of 23 March.
For the tax planning purpose, Mr M asked ATS to pre-fund the sale before the end of 
the tax year, but it could not do so because that was not a part of its execution only 
service.
Mr M did not accept this outcome and the matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within his communications with the parties, the investigator expressed some concern about 
the absence of transaction correspondence evidence related to the liquidation of Mr Ms fund 
holding. I share that concern. It is not quite clear to me why, given that events happened 
around only two years ago and given that Embark acquired the business since then, such 
information is said to be inaccessible. I have seen the investigators efforts to obtain the 
same evidence from the fund manager, but as he said there has been no response in return.
Having said the above, and on balance, I consider the root cause analysis document (and 
information within it) to be credible. Mr M complained at the time of the events in 2020. ATS 
was the firm in place and its complaint response to him in July 2020 refers to a review of the relevant records that were available at the time. The information the letter cited from those 
records is consistent with the information that has been provided in the root cause analysis 
document, so this document appears to reflect correspondence evidence that was available 
at the time. Furthermore, there does not appear to be a dispute from Mr M about the 
accuracy of the chronology of events, instead his argument is about what he says ATS 
should have done to complete the due diligence exercise prior to his instruction (so, prior to 
the events that followed his instruction).
In this respect, and as a preliminary observation, I note the investigators point about what 
would probably have happened even if the exercise had been applied and concluded before 
the sale instruction. The chronology of events shows that on 24 April ATF completed its 
provision of information for the fund managers due diligence exercise and that by 28 April 
the fund manager had completed the exercise and confirmed that forthcoming payment 
would be delayed. Payment was not made until 5 June and the bank details enquiry on 2 
June appears to have been the last part of the process. On its own and even if the bank 
details enquiry is discounted, the time taken by the fund manager just to process payment 
was around a month. This was distinct from the due diligence exercise. It lends itself to the 
conclusion  or, at least, the argument  that even if no due diligence exercise was required, 
settlement and completion of the sale on 26 March would not have happened until around a 
month thereafter, in late April. That would have gone past the end of the 2019/2020 tax year. 
It therefore appears that, in any case, the timing (in late March 2020) of Mr Ms decision to 
liquidate the fund, and of the liquidation itself, probably meant that its completion would miss 
the end of that tax year. I am also mindful that any direct impact from COIVID-19 at the time, 
upon the transaction, would probably have been beyond any partys control.
I understand Mr Ms argument about ATS ensuring that the fund was fully onboarded on its 
platform and fit for trading prior to presenting it as an asset that could be dealt on the 
platform. I also understand the logic in the argument. However, I am not persuaded that ATS 
failed in this respect. The fund could be traded on the platform. It is for this reason that the 
relevant holding appears to have been sold on 26 March, a few days after the instruction 
was sent to and then received by ATS. The problem was not about selling (or trading) the 
fund holding, it was about remitting the sale proceeds to ATS, in order that to be forwarded 
to Mr M. The fund managers due diligence exercise was about this remittance, not about 
trading the fund. The implication that arises is that the fund was fully onboarded on to the 
platform at the time of the sale in March and was fit for dealing, hence the successful sale.
The proceeds were of a significant value. Remittance of the proceeds, in any value, of a 
liquidated investment is an important function and it is one that the remitting firm is entitled 
and expected to conduct with due diligence. Both parties appear to agree that the fund 
manager was entitled to apply its due diligence exercise in this case. I have not seen 
evidence that ATF caused a delay in that exercise and, beyond meeting the requests for 
information it received, it had no control or responsibility for the exercise  it was the fund 
managers exercise. I also have not seen evidence that ATF was unduly late in providing 
information requested by the fund manager. Its records show that it chased for progress 
where necessary and sought to aid such progress by suggesting a simplified due diligence 
option, which the fund manager declined.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I am not persuaded to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint and I do not consider that ATF/Embark should be held responsible for the 
compensation claims he has made.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman