DRN-2509711
The complaint
 Mr L complains that Advanced Payment Solutions trading as Cashplus didnt transfer 
money he sent in October 2019 until August 2020. He would like a refund of interest 
payments and charges on this account
What happened
 Mr L says he contacted his bank on 14 October 2019 to arrange a balance transfer of 
£1,000 to his Cashplus account as he wanted to pay off most of the balance on that account. 
Mr L says he contacted Cashplus multiple times as the money wasnt credited to his 
account. He says Cashplus told him the money had been credited on 15 November 2019, 
but this was wrong. This was another balance transfer payment that Mr L made to his bank 
credit card not the one to Cashplus that had gone missing.
Cashplus initially said that the payment had been received on 15 November 2019. At this
point it offered Mr L £25 as a gesture of goodwill as it felt it should have noticed this sooner.
When it realised this wasnt the payment Mr L was querying it asked him several times for
the remittance advice slip so it could track where the payment had gone but Mr L didnt
provide this which is what caused the delay
 My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision in which I found :-
There was no dispute in the main facts in that Mr L made a transfer payment as 
evidenced by his bank account statement . But it took approximately ten months for 
Cashplus to locate that payment and to add it to Mr Ls account. 
As Mr L stopped making payments to his account in February 2020, he incurred 
charges and interest.
Cashplus explained to Mr L several times that it needed a remittance advice slip. 
This would show the unique account number that that Mr L made the payment into . I 
didnt think that was an unreasonable request . 
I agreed with  Cashplus that had it been given this information it would have resolved 
the problem much sooner as it would have known where exactly the money went. 
Mr L gave Cashplus a copy of his bank statement showing the transfer this didnt 
show where the money had been transferred to . So, from that alone Cashplus 
wouldnt have known where the money went.
When Cashplus got the information it requested it was able to locate the payment 
and credit the money in the same month
I could understand Mr L chose not to carry on making payments , but in doing so I 
believe he would have known he was accruing interest and charges as these would 
have shown on his statements. He couldnt have assumed these would be 
automatically refunded. 
I was not aware of any commitment from Cashplus to refund these payments. So, I 
didnt feel I could reasonably ask it to do so.
Cashplus offered  Mr L a gesture of goodwill payment of £25 which I thought was a 
reasonable gesture to make. It seemed to have misunderstood the problem when Mr 
L first raised it with the business which did cause some delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 CashPlus accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments for me to 
consider.
Mr L didnt accept my provisional decision. He sent in documents that had already been 
provided which he highlighted and annotated with comments as his response.
In summary I understand Mr L feels he did provide the information needed. And that he wold 
like his credit file to be amended with any negative data removed that relates to this 
complaint. He would also like interest and charges to his account removed.
I do appreciate this has caused Mr L a degree of stress. It was  a significant sum of money 
that went missing and he has now also incurred fees and charges by choosing to stop 
payments to his account.
Mr L has made the point that the initial transaction was made by his bank and the 
information CashPlus needed was supplied by his bank. But his complaint is against 
CashPlus not his bank. So, I can only consider if CashPlus has done anything wrong not Mr 
Ls bank. 
Unfortunately, I dont think Mr L has given me any new information to make me reconsider 
my provisional view. Once CashPlus got the information it needed it was able to quickly 
resolve the matter.
And whilst I appreciate Mr Ls frustration I dont think that  it was the right thing to stop 
making payments  even if he had, in his view , provided the necessary information. In doing 
so I believe he knew he would incur interest and charges..
I am not aware of any commitment from CashPlus for it to refund these. And as it was Mr Ls 
decision to stop making payments, I dont think I can reasonably ask CashPlus to refund 
these charges.
I do think its fair for CashPlus to honour the £25 gesture of goodwill it offered as it didnt 
seem to fully understand Mr Ls problem when he first raised it which did cause some delay 
at the time.
My final decision My final decision is that Advanced Payment Solutions trading as Cashplus should pay 
Mr L the £25 it has already offered as a gesture of goodwill.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman