DRN-1956185
The complaint
 Mrs J complains about the way in which Tesco Personal Finance PLC handled her section 
75 claim. 
What happened
 Mrs J made a payment to a holiday company in October 2019 using her Tesco credit card. 
Shortly afterwards the holiday company went into administration. 
Mrs J made a section 75 claim to Tesco. Tesco replied and said that because Mrs J had 
paid for a package holiday, she should contact ATOL for a refund. Tesco also said it 
wouldnt refund any interest which had already accrued on the purchase price of the holiday 
but that as a gesture of goodwill it would place a hold on any interest applied in January and 
February 2020.
Mrs J complained to this service. She feels that Tesco shouldve honoured the section 75 
claim and refunded her money. She says it took Tesco almost a month to respond to her 
claim and advise her to contact ATOL, during which time her account accrued interest. Mrs J 
received a full refund from ATOL in March 2020 but wants Tesco to refund a months interest 
on her account.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it wasnt mandatory for Mrs J to go to ATOL 
and that it was up to her whether she did that or raised a section 75 claim. The investigator 
said it was likely that a section 75 claim wouldve been successful. He said that Tesco hadnt 
done anything wrong by directing Mrs J to ATOL but in doing so, it put her in a 
disadvantageous position because it deprived her of her refund for longer. The investigator 
said that by agreeing to waive interest, Tesco had put Mrs J back in the position she 
wouldve been had she pursued a section 75 claim. But she said that Mrs J had been 
caused distress and inconvenience by having to contact ATOL to make a claim and awarded 
compensation of £75.
Tesco didnt agree. It said that for the purposes of section 75, it effectively became the 
merchant for the purposes of putting things right. It said that because ATOL protection 
formed part of Mrs Js contract with the holiday company, it was acting in line with the 
contract when it advised Mrs J to contact ATOL for a refund. It also said that even if it had 
upheld the section 75 claim, it wouldve taken a long time to provide a refund due to the 
number of claims it had received I relation to the holiday company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation.
The issue in this case is whether Tesco shouldve investigated the section 75 claim itself, 
and whether it acted fairly in advising Mrs j to contact ATOL.
Tesco has said that it acted in accordance with industry guidelines when it advised Mrs J to 
contact ATOL for a refund. I havent been provider with a copy of these guidelines so Im 
unable to comment on them. However, Im satisfied that when Mrs J made a section 75 
claim, Tesco shouldve considered it. Its up to Mrs J to decide whether she wanted to pursue 
a claim under section 75 or contact ATOL. Ive taken on board the point made by Tesco 
about ATOL protection forming part of Mrs Js contract with the holiday company, but Im not 
persuaded that this means that she cant avail herself of her rights under section 75. 
Given that the merchant wasnt able to provide the holiday that Mrs J had booked and paid 
for, I think a section 75 claim wouldve succeeded eon the basis that there had been a 
breach of contract.
Ive thought about how long it wouldve taken for Tesco to process a section 75 claim. Its 
difficult to know but based on my experience in dealing with similar section 75 claims, I think 
its reasonable to say that Tesco wouldve dealt with the claim and refunded the payment 
within around 3 months i.e. by 31 December 2019.
Further, in referring Mrs J to ATOL, Tesco has put Mrs J in a position where she had to 
complete more forms and make another claim.
Even if Tesco was as busy with claims from the holiday company as it has suggested, I dont 
think it wouldve taken 6 months to deal with the claim. In my analysis, Mrs J wouldve 
received her refund sooner if Tesco had dealt with the section 75 claim rather than referring 
Mrs J to ATOL.
Putting things right
 Because of this, I agree with the investigator that Mrs J should be compensated for the 
delay in receiving her refund and the inconvenience of having to make a further claim to 
ATOL. I think the sum of £75 is fair. 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC must pay 
compensation of £75 to Mrs J. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman