DRN-4421033
The complaint
Mr B complains about Pinnacle Insurance Plcs settlement of his pet insurance claims and 
service. My references to Pinnacle include its agents, 
What happened
Mr B has pet insurance for his cat. The insurer is Pinnacle. He made two claims for 
procedures his cat had at his vet on the same day.
The first claim was £115.86 for blood tests, one test cost £40, the other £75.86. The claim 
information provided by Mr B said the claim related to a tooth extraction. The claim 
information provided by the vet said the treatment related to hyperthyroidism, the cats 
ongoing medical condition. Pinnacle paid the claim on the basis that the blood test was for 
hyperthyroidism and closed the claim. It told Mr B that it had deducted £23.17 as the 20% 
policy excess and paid Mr B £92.69 to settle the first claim.
Mr B complained to Pinnacle that it hadnt assessed the claim as being for tooth extraction 
as hed instructed. In making that complaint he spoke to different representatives from 
Pinnacle and he also complained about the service hed received from some of those 
representatives, in particular hed requested a call back from a manager that didnt happen.
The second claim was submitted with the vets information saying it was a claim for dental 
treatment. The claimed for items totalled £575.78. Within this claim was a £40 blood test, 
which Pinnacle deducted as a duplicate of the £40 blood test submitted under the first claim.
Pinnacle told Mr B it had deducted £31.33 as the 20% policy excess and paid him £504.45 
to settle the second claim.
Pinnacles final response letter to Mr Bs complaint said: 
The vet had categorised the first claim as being for hyperthyroidism and as the 
condition had previously been claimed for it processed the claim using its automated 
system, for fast payment of the claim. But Pinnacle acknowledged that its system 
could have picked up the difference between Mr Bs and the vets descriptions of the 
claim and referred the claim for manual review.
Once Mr B made it aware the first claim was for tooth extraction the claim was moved 
to that new condition. But it had then made mistakes, the incorrect excess had been 
deducted. And as the claim related to pre-operative blood tests they werent covered
under the policy terms so the claim shouldnt have been paid at all. It wouldnt be 
asking Mr B to repay the £92.69 it had wrongly paid him for the first claim.
Mr B had later told it he thought the blood tests were for his cats hyperthyroidism so 
the first claim shouldnt be for dental extraction. But its claims team said the blood 
tests were confirmed to be related to the dental extraction.
It apologised that Mr B hadnt received the managers call back he requested. It paid 
him £25 compensation as an apology.
Mr B complained to us about Pinnacles claim settlements and service. In summary he said:
Pinnacle shouldnt have changed the first claim to be for tooth extraction if his vet 
had told it the claim was for hyperthyroidism. He queried why Pinnacle would pay for 
blood tests for a tooth extraction that werent covered.
He was unsure how the excesses for both claims had been calculated and why the 
£40 blood test cost had been deducted from the second claim. He wanted clarity 
about what Pinnacle had paid for.
Pinnacle had breached the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles in how it 
dealt with his claims, and he detailed why.
Our investigator said Pinnacle had fairly categorised the first claim as being for dental work 
pre-operative blood tests. And although Pinnacle didnt need to pay the first claim under the 
policy terms it had reasonably said it wouldnt seek repayment. She thought Pinnacle had 
fairly deducted the £40 blood test cost from the second claim. And although it had wrongly 
calculated the excesses its mis-calculation was in Mr Bs favour. Ultimately our investigator 
said that taking into account the claim overpayment Pinnacle had made to Mr B and the £25 
compensation already paid Pinnacle had paid Mr B £100 in compensation for its poor 
service, which she thought was a reasonable amount.
Mr B initially accepted our investigators findings but would now like an ombudmans 
decision. Hes still concerned Pinnacle hadnt used the right information for his claims and he 
wanted to know how his compensation of £100 had been calculated.
Before I made a decision I asked Pinnacle to provide the following further information:
1. Evidence that Pinnacle confirmed with Mr Bs vet that the first claim for £115.86 for 
blood tests did relate to dental extraction. If Pinnacle hadnt asked Mr Bs vet for 
confirmation it should contact the vet to get clarification what the blood tests in the 
first claim were for.
2. Evidence that Pinnacle confirmed with Mr Bs vet that the blood tests costing £40 in 
the first and second claims were duplicate. If Pinnacle hadnt asked Mr Bs vet for 
confirmation it should contact the vet to get clarification whether the blood tests 
costing £40 were incorrectly invoiced twice.
Pinnacle responded that it had now contacted Mr Bs vet and the vet had told it:
1. The first claim costs for £115.86 were made up of £75.86 for the thyroid and £40 for 
dental pre-operative bloods.
2. The £40 blood tests in the first and second claims were different, not duplicate.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that Pinnacle had unreasonably handled Mr Bs claims and 
given him poor service. I said:Ive considered all the points Mr B has made but I wont address all the points in my 
findings. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision and the key points which I think 
are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, were not the regulator and our role is to provide an impartial 
dispute resolution service. So Im not able to make a finding on whether Pinnacle breached 
the specific FCA Principles Mr B has referred to. However I have taken the regulators rules 
into account when considering whether Pinnacle gave Mr B reasonable claim settlements 
and fair service.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt turn down (or settle) claims unreasonably.
I think Pinnacle unreasonably settled the two claims and gave unfair service to Mr B. Ill 
explain why.
The first claim
The information provided by Mr Bs vet for the first claim says Insurance Claim for 
Hyperthyroidism. Mr Bs first claim information said the claim was for tooth extraction. 
Pinnacles decision to initially process the claim as categorised by the vet prompted Mr Bs 
complaint.
Pinnacle has accepted that as there was discrepancy in the claim description it should have 
queried the information provided by Mr Bs vet, rather than assessing as being for 
hyperthyroid treatment.
Pinnacles final response letter to Mr B said its claims team have advised that the blood 
tests were confirmed to be related to the Dental Extraction rather than the Hyperthyroid. But 
as there was no evidence on Pinnacles file that Mr Bs vet had clarified what the blood tests 
related to, and I thought the vet notes at the time of the blood tests were unclear on that 
issue, I asked Pinnacle to get the vets clarification if it hadnt already done so.
Mr Bs vet has now clarified that the first claim for blood tests of £115.86 was made up of 
£75.86 for the hyperthyroid and £40 for dental pre-operative bloods.
So Pinnacle incorrectly initially assessed the claim as being only for the cats pre-existing 
hyperthyroidism, and then incorrectly assessed the claim as being only for the cats dental 
extraction.
In response to my provisional decision Pinnacle must reassess the first claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions on the basis of the vets new evidence about how the blood test 
costs were split. And Pinnacle must set out how it reached the reassessment.
Pinnacle and our investigator have correctly told Mr B that the policy terms say Pinnacle will 
not pay for:
any cost relating to routine or investigative tests including but not limited to pre- 
operative blood tests, unless these are to diagnose a condition due to specific 
existing symptoms and the condition is covered under this policy.
Its fair for me to tell Mr B that its very likely Pinnacle will consider the above policy term as 
part of its reassessment of the claim.When we receive Pinnacles reassessment of the first claim we will send the reassessment 
to Mr B for his comment before I make my final decision.
The second claim
The second claim was submitted by Mr Bs vet as Insurance Claim for Dental with invoiced 
items totalling £575.78. Within this claim was a £40 blood test, which Pinnacle deducted 
saying it was it was a duplicate of the £40 blood test submitted by the vet under the first 
claim. But the vets invoice for the second claim says blood & fluids Package (Neutering Or 
Dental Discount) £40.
Whereas the vets invoice for the first claim says Laboratory: Blood Test - 10 panel 
Biochemistry Profile & Haematology Test £40.
As the invoice descriptions of the two blood tests are very different I thought that based on 
the descriptions alone Pinnacle couldnt reasonably consider the blood tests were duplicate. 
So I asked Pinnacle to get the vets clarification if it hadnt already done so. 
Mr Bs vet has now clarified that the £40 blood tests in the first and second claim arent 
duplicates. So Pinnacle unreasonably deducted the £40 from the settlement of the second 
claim.
It isnt as straightforward as Pinnacle now having to pay Mr B the additional £40. Thats 
because Mr Bs policy says that a claim excess for vet fees is the greater of £99 or 20% of 
the claim value per condition per year.
Pinnacle told Mr B that it had deducted a policy excess of £31.33 from the second claim 
which, as Mr B pointed out, isnt 20% of the claim value.
I think the correct excess for the second claim, adding in the £40 blood test which should 
have been covered is:
20% of claim value £575.78 equals £115.16.
So the reasonable settlement of the second claim is:
£575.78 less £115.16 equals £460.62.
Due to Pinnacles error in how it calculated the excess I understand its already paid Mr B 
£504.45 to settle the second claim, when it only needed to pay £460.62. So Pinnacle has 
made an overpayment of £43.83 for the second claim even taking into account that it 
unreasonably deducted the £40 blood test cost.
Service
Ive listened to the calls between Mr B and Pinnacle. Pinnacle accepts Mr B didnt get the 
managers call back he requested and paid him £25 in compensation.
But in addition to that service issue I think Pinnacle mis-handled the claims throughout the 
process. As the vet and Mr B had given different descriptions for the reason for the first claim 
I think it would have been reasonable for Pinnacle to have contacted the vet to get 
clarification on what the blood tests were for at the outset of the claim, or at least once Mr B 
queried the categorisation of the claim. And, as Ive said, I dont think Pinnacle could 
reasonably conclude that the £40 blood test in the second claim was a duplicate of the £40 blood test in the first claim. Again, Pinnacle should have checked with the vet whether the 
tests were duplicate at the outset of the claim or at least when Mr B queried the issue.
Pinnacle made several mistakes in assessing the claims. If Pinnacle had got clarification 
from the vet on the above matters early on in the claims assessment or complaint that 
should have avoided the very confusing information it gave Mr B about the mistakes it had 
made in assessing the excesses and the settlements of the claims. That led to a lot of upset 
and confusion for Mr B, which could have been avoided. If Pinnacle had got earlier 
clarification I dont think Mr B would have taken his complaint to this stage.
Taking into account all the circumstances I think it would be reasonable for Pinnacle to pay 
Mr B £250 compensation in total for his distress and inconvenience. That amount includes 
the £25 compensation its already paid him, the overpayment of the second claim of £43.83 
which is in effect compensation and any overpayment of the first claim once Pinnacle has 
reassessed that claim. Once Pinnacle had reassessed the first claim I should be able to give 
the balance Pinnacle has to pay Mr B so that he receives £250 compensation for his distress 
and inconvenience.
Developments since my provisional decision
Pinnacle reassessed the first claim and said it had already paid £115.86 less the excess for 
the claim. As the vet had confirmed £75.86 of that amount was for thyroid and £40 for dental 
pre-operative bloods, and it didnt need to pay the dental bloods, it had already overpaid on 
the claim. Pinnacle said no further payment was due for the first claim.
Pinnacle also set out the amounts it had paid for the hyperthyroidism since 2021.
We sent the information to Mr B and told him that I considered Pinnacles reassessment of 
the first claim resulting in no further payment was fair, as it had overpaid by £40 for the 
dental pre-operative bloods which wasnt covered by the policy terms. 
And we told Mr B that I considered Pinnacle reasonably needed to pay him £141.17, so that 
he received £250 compensation in total for his distress and inconvenience due to its poor 
service. The calculation being:
£250 less £40 overpayment for first claim less £43.83 overpayment for second claim less 
£25 compensation already paid.
We asked for Mr Bs comments on my considerations.
Mr B said he still thought the set of bloods under the thyroid claim should be covered as its 
for thyroid treatment, not the dental work which would be excluded. And he still felt 
somewhere somebody is getting that information wrong. But Mr B said that to resolve his 
complaint hes willing to agree to what Id proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before I made my final decision I told Mr B I agreed with Pinnacles reassessment of the first 
claim, that there was nothing else to pay for the claim and it had overpaid that claim. I also 
set out to Mr B how Id calculated that meant Pinnacle now needed to pay him £141.17 in 
compensation so that he received a total of £250 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience. Mr B has agreed. Pinnacle hasnt disputed that it should pay Mr B £250 
compensation in total.
I note Mr Bs comments about the blood tests in the first claim. His vet has clarified the first 
claim costs for £115.86 were made up of £75.86 for the thyroid and £40 for dental pre-
operative bloods. Pinnacle can reasonably rely on the vets clarified information as being 
correct. Pinnacle has paid Mr B for the first claim, as Ive detailed above.
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint. Pinnacle unfairly handled the 
claims and gave Mr B poor service. It must put things right as Ive detailed below.
Putting things right
Pinnacle must now pay Mr B £141.17 compensation for his distress and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service. So taking into account the £25 compensation Pinnacles already 
paid and its overpayments of the first and second claim Mr B will receive £250 compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience in total.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Pinnacle Insurance Plc to now pay Mr B £141.17 compensation so that, with the 
£25 compensation its already paid him and its overpayments of the first and second claim, 
overall Mr B will receive £250 for his distress and inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman