DRN-3706326
The complaint
Ms F complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard closing her two credit 
card accounts with limited notice.
What happened
Ms F held two Barclaycards. In November 2020, Barclays reviewed the accounts and 
decided to close both credit cards belonging to Ms F. Barclays sent Ms F a letter in 
November 2020, giving her two months notice that her Barclaycards would be closing.
At the time, Ms F was staying abroad  and while Barclays had the abroad address which 
they sent the closure letter to, Ms F didnt receive it until January 2021. Therefore, Ms F 
doesnt feel Barclays gave her adequate notice.
Ms F brought the complaint to our service and said she wanted at least one of the cards to 
be reinstated, a valid reason for the cancellation of the cards and compensation.
Our investigator reviewed things and didnt uphold Ms Fs complaint. In summary, he said 
Barclays were entitled to close the cards by giving two months notice and they werent 
obliged to give a reason to Ms F.
Ms F remained unhappy. She said she couldnt plan her finances because she didnt receive 
the notice of closure letter until late, and she lost borrowing facilities of around £14,000 
overnight because of Barclays closing the cards. Ms F says she hasnt tried to obtain other 
borrowing but has had to borrow money from members of her family to pay for flights home 
to the UK and medical treatment. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal 
and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Ms F decided to stop banking with Barclaycard, she wouldnt have to explain why. That 
being said, Barclaycard can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the 
terms and conditions of the account. Barclaycard have relied on the terms and conditions 
when closing Ms Fs account  and Im pleased to see they gave her the full 60 days notice. 
I appreciate Ms F is unhappy about the notice period  because she didnt receive the letter 
until a long time after it was sent. But I cant reasonably say thats the fault of Barclaycard. 
Ms F has also said that she hasnt applied to open another credit card since this issue; so I 
dont reasonably think Ms F would have done anything differently even if she received the 
letter on the same day, or shortly after it was sent. Ultimately whats important here is that 
Barclaycard gave her written notice of their decision to close the complaint, so I cant fairly 
say they did anything wrong.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms F, and Im sorry it caused her issues with 
borrowing money from family to be able to travel home to the UK and receive medical 
treatment. But based on the circumstances of this complaint, I cant say Barclaycard did 
anything wrong. Their actions complied with the terms and conditions on the account and 
therefore I wont be asking them to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman