DRN-3015681
The complaint
Mr S has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc registered a marker against him at CIFAS, the 
national fraud database.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr S set up a current account and two savings accounts with HSBC. He 
received £5,800, which was later confirmed as being money obtained by fraud. This money 
was transferred between his accounts, then there were attempts to send it onto third parties 
using his mobile banking app.
HSBC called Mr S about this, who disconnected the call. They tried phoning him and writing 
to him multiple times, but did not hear back. They closed his accounts and registered a 
CIFAS marker for misusing his facility.
In August 2020, Mr S appealed the marker. He explained hed been under a financial burden 
and had acted in desperation. He said that his lack of financial support had pushed him into 
taking wrongful action. He confirmed hed engaged with the fraud, having been introduced to 
a fraudster through social media. He said he gave them his bank credentials and card and 
was assured hed be fine. But because of the marker, hed now lost his job and was 
struggling to open a bank account elsewhere.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. While they 
understood Mr Ss reasons for partaking in the fraud, the fact remained that the money had 
belonged to victims of crime and Mr S had willingly let fraudsters use his account. So they 
found that HSBC had added the CIFAS marker correctly.
Mr S then offered a different version of events. He said a very close old friend had asked him 
to help them transfer money to their parent. Mr S now said he hadnt done the transactions 
or helped the friend do them or given them his bank credentials. He said the friend accessed 
his home while he was abroad and made the transactions without Mr Ss permission. He 
said the friend only told him about this afterwards, then blocked him. Mr S said he had not 
been involved with the transactions. He said he hadnt reported the friend to the police as he 
felt the police werent effective. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr S and HSBC a provisional decision on 
26 July 2021, to explain why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, 
I said:
In order to register this marker, HSBC were not required to prove beyond all reasonable 
doubt that Mr S had tried to do something wrong. They did have to have reasonable grounds 
to believe hed misused his account, going beyond a suspicion or concern, and with 
appropriate evidence to support this. Ive carefully considered everything that both sides 
have said and provided, and I think that HSBC did have sufficient grounds to register the 
marker. Ill explain why.
The money Mr S received has been confirmed as fraudulent. And his accounts were used to 
try to pass it on. The question, then, is whether Mr S knowingly took part in the crime.
Initially, Mr S appears to have admitted that he did indeed co-operate with a fraudster and let 
them use his account for this. He accepted hed engaged with the fraud and taken 
wrongful action.
Mr Ss new testimony completely contradicts his original testimony. Whereas before he said 
hed knowingly given access to his account to a fraudster hed just met, he now says a close 
friend did this all without him knowing and without Mr S giving them access. This is such a 
drastic change in his story that it makes it very difficult for me to find his new version of 
events to be plausible.
We asked Mr S why hed given such contradictory testimony. He said hed asked someone 
for help with this and theyd advised him to say what he originally said. But if Mr Ss new 
testimony is true, and he never knew about the fraud until afterwards, then I cant see why 
anyone would ever advise him to give a false confession to a crime he didnt commit. Nor 
can I see why hed make up a story about a fraudster or admit to giving them access to his 
account if he hadnt. Im afraid what Mr S has now told us is simply not plausible.
Indeed, Mr S now says his friend made the transactions involved by accessing his home 
while he was away. But he also now says he never gave this friend his account credentials. 
So if thats the case, then I cant see a likely way the friend couldve accessed Mr Ss online 
banking. Mr S had never used this account for anything else before, so there wasnt an 
opportunity for the friend to watch Mr S using his account on a previous occasion and learn 
his security details that way.
Further, Mr S now says he was abroad at the time. And according to his latest submissions, 
he was messaging his friend from his mobile phone while abroad. But the transactions in 
question were made using Mr Ss mobile banking, which was registered to the same number 
hes given us. So if Mr S was abroad with his phone, then it would not have been possible 
for a friend back home to have made these payments via his mobile banking. 
Mr S provided images ostensibly of a messaging app history between himself and the friend, 
to show that the friend had said the money was for their parent and then later blocked him. 
But the images contain formatting errors and inconsistences and do not appear to be 
genuine. Its worth noting that Mr Ss HSBC current and savings accounts were not used for any other 
purpose than the fraud. For example, he didnt pay any money into the savings accounts or 
pay any direct debits from the current account. As far as I can see, he opened the accounts, 
left them unused for over a week, and then the only thing they were used for were receiving 
and passing on fraudulent money. Further, he didnt respond to HSBCs calls or letters, nor 
question why his accounts got blocked or closed, which would not make sense if he intended 
to use these accounts genuinely. So this does not support Mr Ss assertion that these were 
genuine accounts which got misused by a friend without his permission. However, it does fit 
with him deliberately opening the accounts in order to act as a money mule  and his original 
testimony did admit to engaging with such fraud. 
In summary, the evidence shows that Mr S set up these accounts, then received fraudulent 
funds, and his accounts were used to try to pass that money on. His accounts were not used 
for any other purpose. Mr S originally admitted to being knowingly involved. And his latest 
testimony is neither likely nor plausible. Given the way the transactions involved were made, 
and given that Mr S now says he never gave away his security details, it wasnt realistically 
possible for anyone to have made them without Mr Ss permission.
I understand that Mr S may have been acting out of financial desperation. But the fact 
remains that the money involved had been taken fraudulently from innocent victims of crime. 
And if Mr S knowingly and willingly took part in that  as he seems to have originally said he 
did  then I think it was fair for HSBC to register the appropriate marker with CIFAS.  This is 
a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr S to receive. But 
given the evidence I have, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach 
any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
24 August 2021. But neither Mr S nor HSBC sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that in these circumstances, I think it 
was fair for HSBC to register the CIFAS marker.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman