DRN-3667946
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt 
with disputes for purchases made using his credit card. 
What happened
Mr W made 152 payments totalling around £4,000 in April, May and June 2020 for online 
services relating to an app. In July 2020, after he says the services hed paid for stopped 
working, he contacted AESEL to raise a dispute about these payments. 
AESEL logged 38 disputed payments at that time. It refunded some of the low value 
transactions, and then attempted a chargeback for some of the higher value payments, but 
the chargeback didnt succeed.
Mr W didnt think his dispute had been dealt with fairly, he said that AESEL had failed to 
raise all the disputed payments as chargebacks. AESEL agreed that it hadnt raised all the 
chargebacks that Mr W had requested, and that the service he had received had been poor, 
and so offered to pay him £125 to recognise that. But AESEL maintained that as the 
chargebacks it had raised had been unsuccessful, any other chargebacks would likely have 
also been unsuccessful. Mr W remained unhappy, and asked our service for an independent 
review. 
The investigator thought AESEL had dealt with the dispute fairly and was also satisfied £125 
was fair compensation for AESELs customer service failings. Mr W didnt accept the 
investigators conclusions, so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels strongly that he shouldnt be out of pocket because the online services he bought 
stopped working. But AESEL, as the card issuer, isnt automatically responsible for putting 
things right. In this scenario AESEL could pursue a dispute for Mr W under either Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act, or the chargeback scheme.  Here, Section 75 didnt apply, 
because the value of the goods didnt meet the relevant amounts. So, the other avenue open 
to AESEL was to pursue a chargeback.
A consumer isnt entitled to a chargeback and a bank has no obligation to progress a 
chargeback through the later stages  if they dont think it will be successful. So, broadly 
speaking banks can decide whether to make a chargeback or not. But wed generally 
consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where there was a reasonable 
prospect of success. When a chargeback is raised, the merchant then receives the 
chargeback and may agree to refund the payment, or may contest the chargeback. If it 
contests, then AESEL can consider this alongside what the rules of the relevant card 
scheme (which here are set by another entity within the American Express group of 
companies) say and then if they still feel the chargeback is warranted, they can take it 
further.
In this case Mr W bought add-ons for an online game, and while these add-ons were 
delivered to him and seem to have done what he expected at least initially, Mr W says they 
then stopped working. 
So AESEL automatically refunded some of the low-value payments as a gesture of goodwill, 
and then went on to challenge some of the higher value payments Mr W was disputing via 
the chargeback scheme as we would expect it to do. I appreciate that AESEL didnt raise 
chargebacks for every payment that was in dispute, but given the number of transactions in 
dispute and the similar nature of the transactions it seems reasonable for it to challenge 
some of the payments, see what response it received from the merchant, and to then decide 
whether it was reasonable to pursue the remaining payments.
The response that AESEL received from the merchant  in this case the store that sold the 
game add-ons, rather than the developer who made them   does suggest that there was no 
reasonable prospect of success for reclaiming the payments that Mr W was disputing. The 
merchant defended the chargeback on the basis that the game add-ons had been bought 
using Mr Ws legitimate account, had been delivered direct to Mr W electronically 
immediately after purchase, and so had been immediately available for him to use. The 
merchant also said Mr W had not reached out to it, or to the app developer to try to resolve 
the issue with the game add-ons hed bought. AESEL says the documentation it received 
from the merchant declining the chargeback was then sent to Mr W on 15 September 2021 
at the address it held for him.
Mr W has said he did try to contact the app developer  although hes not provided any 
evidence to support this  but that there was no way to raise a complaint or request a refund. 
But hes also said that the app developer had a no-refunds policy, which could be seen to 
support AESELs position that there was little prospect of success for the chargebacks. 
Ultimately it was for Mr W to evidence his claim and for AESEL to decide whether, based on 
said evidence, a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success. And based on the 
evidence available, AESEL decided against attempting further chargebacks or pursuing the 
ones it had already started any further. This was because the evidence provided from Mr W 
and the merchant didnt show he had a valid chargeback under the relevant rules here. I 
think thats fair in the circumstances. 
I agree that AESELs customer service could have been better  AESEL could have been 
clearer with Mr W about what it was doing and why  but I remain satisfied it was reasonable 
for it to decline to pursue the chargebacks further, so I dont agree that any failings in 
AESELs service mean that Mr W lost out financially. It will have caused him some degree of 
distress and inconvenience but AESEL has accepted it could have provided a better service 
here and has sent Mr W a cheque for £125 as compensation. Im satisfied thats fair
.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman