DRN-3290470
The complaint
Mrs R is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS), following the return of a car under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 12 September 2015, Mrs R was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The agreement was for 36 months, with monthly payments of £418.41.
When the agreement came to an end the car was returned to MBFS, and it was inspected 
for any damage. MBFS said there was damage that fell outside their Vehicle Return 
Standards (VRS) and they invoiced Mrs R for this. They also invoiced her for exceeding the 
mileage allowable under the agreement. Mrs R said she was happy to pay for the damage to 
the windscreen, and the excess milage, but she disputed the rest of the damage charges. 
So, she complained to MBFS.
MBFS said that the damage Mrs R had been charged for fell outside of the VRS, but they 
agreed to reduce the damage charges by £150, with a further 25% as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mrs R wasnt happy with this, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator said shed seen evidence the damage MBFS were charging for was present 
when the car was inspected. And the agreement Mrs R had signed with MBFS allowed them 
to charge him for this damage. So, she didnt think MBFS had done anything wrong.
Mrs R didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said that the damage to the car didnt happen 
while it was in her possession, and the collection agent didnt make her aware of any 
damage to the car. Shes said she believes the collection agent kept the car for a few days, 
and this is when the damage occurred.
Mrs R has also said that she should only be charged for the mileage to the point of 
collection, and not for any mileage done after this. And she thinks the delay in both collecting 
and inspecting the car means that MBFS have breached the agreement. So, shes asked for 
an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs R was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mrs R signed on 12 September 
2015. Under the heading Damage the agreement clearly says, you will maintain the 
vehicle in a condition which is consistent with the attached [VRS]. The agreement goes on 
to explain what is, and isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS.
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied Mrs R shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of 
damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS when the car was returned. 
Ive seen a copy of the collection and delivery report, which shows the car was collected 
from Mrs R at 16:42 on Friday 7 September 2018 and delivered to the inspection centre on 
Monday 10 September 2018 at 07:32. MBFS have confirmed that, when a car is collected 
too late in the day to be delivered to the inspection centre, the car is stored at the collection 
agents home address, and delivered the next working day. In this case, because the car 
was collected late on a Friday afternoon, the next working day was the following Monday.
The collection and delivery report details damage to the rear bumper, LHR quarter panel, 
LHR door, LHF door, RHR door and RHF door. This is all recorded as damage that was 
present upon collection. The report also shows the mileage on collection as 49,370, and the 
mileage on delivery 49,478. So, the car did 108 miles between collection from Mrs R and 
delivery to the inspection centre.
Ive also seen a copy of the inspection that took place on 18 September 2018. And this 
shows the mileage as 49,479. So, in the eight days the car was at the inspection centre 
before the inspection took place, it did a total of one mile.
The inspection report is supported by both photo and video evidence. Where applicable, 
theres a measuring tool in the photographs, next to any damage. The report says the 
chargeable damage is for an excessively soiled interior, a gouge in the LHF alloy wheel, 
scratches to the front and rear bumpers, a chipped windscreen, and flaking paint to a repair 
to the LH door mirror housing. Ive reviewed this damage against the VRS.
The VRS says that normal wear and tear to carpets, trim, upholstery etc. is acceptable. 
The photographs show excessive soiling to the interior of the boot, and this soiling can also 
be seen in the pictures on the collection and delivery report. Given the extent of this soiling, 
its reasonable to expect MBFS to have to clean this before the car could be sold. So, Im 
satisfied that the excess spoiling falls outside of normal wear and tear so is chargeable.
The VRS says that minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the alloy wheels is 
acceptable, but any gouge isnt. The photographs clearly show a gouge in the rim of the 
alloy wheel thats part of damage thats more than 25mm wide. This is outside of VRS and 
Im satisfied this is chargeable.
The VRS says that scuff marks of up to 50mm on the bumper are acceptable. But the 
photographs show that there are scuff marks and scratches to both the front and rear 
bumpers that are bigger than 50mm. This is outside of the VRS, so Im satisfied this is 
chargeable damage.The VRS says that chips to the windscreen, which are less than 5mm are acceptable. The 
photographs show that the chip to the windscreen exceeds 5mm. So, Im satisfied this is 
chargeable damage. Mrs R doesnt dispute this damage happened when the car was in her 
possession.
The VRS says that any previous repair up to an acceptable standard and light surface 
scratches not through the top coat were acceptable. The photographs show that the 
paintwork of the LH door mirror was badly flaking and showing the base coat of the 
moulding. This is outside of VRS, so Im satisfied this is chargeable damage.
Mrs R said that the damage to the car happened after itd been collected. But Im satisfied 
that, with the exception of the damage to the door mirror (which is consistent with a previous 
repair) and the excessive soiling to the boot (which is showing on a photograph on the 
collection and delivery report), this is all damage that would likely take place during normal 
usage of the car. 
Because a full inspection wasnt completed when the car was collected, its not possible for 
me to say with certainty what damage was present when the car was collected. So, I need to 
consider whats more likely than not to have happened. 
Mrs R had possession of the car for 3 years and did 49,370 miles. And the car was out of 
her possession for 11 days and did 109 miles before being inspected. Given the nature of 
the damage, I consider it more likely that it occurred in the 3 years/49,370 miles the car was 
in Mrs Rs possession, rather than the 11 days/109 miles it wasnt. So, I dont think MBFS 
should reduce or waive these charges.
Mrs R has also commented that she should only be charged for the mileage up to the point 
of collection. Im in agreement with this, and Mrs R should only be charged for the 49,370 
miles she did. I havent seen anything to show me that Mrs R was charged for any mileage 
in excess of the 49,370. But, if she was, then Id expect MBFS to amend this charge.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R, I think 
that MBFS acted reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and I wont be asking 
them to amend their invoice.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman