DRN-2540719
The complaint
Mrs H has complained to Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc about the increase in premium 
over several years for a home insurance policy she jointly held with Mr H. 
What happened
Mrs H says she and Mr H bought a home insurance policy through their bank in 1993. They 
renewed every year until 2017 when the underwriter changed from RSA. 
Mrs H says they trusted they were paying a fair premium for their insurance through the 
years and so didnt shop around. But recently they were able to obtain alternative insurance 
for a much lower price. And so Mrs H believes they have been overcharged by RSA in the 
past.
RSA has been able to confirm it was the underwriter of Mr and Mrs Hs policy from 1999 as 
this is how far back their records go. Its also provided its pricing history to us along with the 
claims history, so that we can check if its been fair to Mr and Mrs H. 
Based on the information provided by both Mrs H and RSA, our investigator thought RSA 
had acted reasonably. 
Mrs H didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important for me to explain to Mr and Mrs H that our role isnt to tell a business how it 
should operate. While I can look at whether RSA treated Mr and Mrs H fairly during the time 
they held their home insurance policy with it, I cannot tell RSA  or any insurer - what it 
should charge its customers for insurance products. 
RSA has been able to provide a copy of the renewal notice the broker sent to Mr and Mrs H 
in 2016. Its also been able to provide its pricing history to us from 1999. An insurers 
underwriting information is commercially sensitive, and so we cant share it with a consumer. 
But we can ask an insurer to provide it to us so that we can check it has treated a customer 
fairly. Im satisfied from the information RSA has provided that it did and Ill explain why.
RSA underwrote the policy and so it set the premium. But it didnt provide any advice to Mr 
and Mrs H as to the suitability of the policy. I understand Mr and Mrs H renewed the policy 
for a number of years through a broker. The brokers role is to arrange suitable insurance for 
a customer  and its for a customer to decide if the policy offered by a broker is suitable for 
their needs. 
With automatic renewals there is a chance that if customers dont engage with the renewal 
process or shop around for other suitable policies, they may find themselves in a position 
where they were paying much more for their cover than a new customer would pay for a 
similar policy.
We dont think a business has necessarily done anything wrong by changing the insurance 
premium at renewal. There can often be risk-related reasons associated with the various 
insurers of the policy for doing so. And industry increases over time can also play a part.
I can see that Mr and Mrs H engaged in 2001 and 2009 to increase the buildings sum 
insured.
I think its worth mentioning that along with the increases in the sum insured, there would 
have been many external factors involved in the price increases over the years - such as 
increases in insurance premium tax rates (increased from 5% to 12%) and the impact of 
inflation. Mr and Mrs H held their policy with RSA for approximately 22 years, which is a long 
time. So I dont think it was unreasonable that the cost of their premium would have risen 
over the years, to take these factors into account.
So, while there have been increases to the premiums over the years, I think there were 
legitimate reasons behind the premium increases.
The recent introduction of price comparison websites have resulted in insurers offering 
slightly more competitive prices. Some customers can now manage their policies online and 
this can reduce administrative costs to insurers, which in turn means savings applied to the 
reduction offered to customers.
We do need to be careful when comparing the cost of insurance policies, as there may be 
some known and possibly some unknown factors that could impact on the overall cost of the 
policy. RSA says that Mr and Mrs Hs home being a listed property was a risk factor it took 
into account when pricing its policy. Insurance policies provided by different insurers may 
involve different benefits and/or levels of benefits and the level of service offered to 
customers may also be different. And I think its also worth mentioning that insurers can 
have a different perception of the risk a customer presents  and so the cost between 
insurers can vary widely based on each insurers perceived risk of the thing its undertaking 
to insure. 
Mrs H says they were recently able to obtain an alternative policy with another insurer for a 
lot less. I understand Mr and Mrs H have made a complaint about the insurer of their home 
insurance policy from 2017 onwards. I can only consider whether the actions of RSA were 
fair up to renewal in 2017 in my decision. So I wont comment on their complaint against the 
other insurer. 
All of the factors Ive considered mean that the cost of the policy Mr and Mrs H held with 
RSA and renewed in subsequent years, would be different to the cost of a policy taken out 
more recently. So, although Mr and Mrs H could take out a policy at a much lower cost 
today, for the reasons explained, I dont think it would be fair to compare the cost of different 
policies taken out at different times as if they were like-for-like.
I understand Mr and Mrs H are disappointed with RSAs decision. But I dont think it 
overcharged them for their policy through the years. I think RSA treated Mr and Mrs H fairly 
and as it would any other customer in the same position. So I dont think it needs to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman