DRN-3826077
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as Money 
Boat.co.uk) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Money Boat provided Mr M with a loan for £300 in October 2020. The loan was due to be 
repaid in three monthly instalments of £135.29. As I understand it, none of these payments 
were made and the loan was passed to Money Boats collections team. 
Mr M subsequently complained to Money Boat. Mr Ms complaint was considered by two of 
our adjudicators. The second of which thought that Money Barn shouldnt have provided this 
loan to Mr M and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
Money Boat disagreed with this assessment and so the case was passed to an ombudsman.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Money Boat needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Money Boat needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether     
Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Money Boat says that Mr M passed its affordability checks which were based on his income, 
information about his existing credit commitments obtained from a credit reference agency 
and an estimation of his essential spending. 
Ive thought about what Money Boat has said  in particular that Mr M declared that he had a 
monthly income which was well above average and that it was entitled to rely on the 
information it was provided with. Equally, as this was a loan for a relatively low amount over 
a short term, I accept that there is an argument for saying that a lighter touch affordability 
assessment might have been proportionate here.  
However, its important to note that the relevant rules in CONC are in place to protect 
consumers. And the fact that regulated lenders are required to exercise reasonable care and 
skill, have clear and effective processes in place to assess affordability and also take 
adequate steps to check and verify the information provided by a customer all point to there 
being an expectation that a firm shouldnt simply rely on what it is told by a prospective 
borrower, about matters regarding income and expenditure.
In particular, Im mindful that CONC 5.2A7 (1)R requires a lender to base its affordability 
assessment on sufficient information, including what it is aware at the time its assessment is 
carried out. In this case, Money Boat would, or at the very least ought to, have been aware 
that it had declined a number of loan applications from Mr M. I count at least 50 prior to this 
application and nearly 30 in the month leading up to this successful application too. 
Furthermore, it was obvious that Mr M was inputting different loan amounts, salary amounts 
and even employers, in an attempt to see an application approved.
And I think that the sheer number of declined applications was something that Money Boat 
ought to have kept in mind when assessing Mr Ms successful application. Ive seen what 
Money Boat has said about relying on credit reference agency information to cross reference 
Mr Ms income declaration. But Money Boat would have seen how the information across the 
previous applications fluctuated wildly. Furthermore, it was clear that Mr M was in a 
significant amount of debt. So any attempt to cross-reference Mr Ms declared income 
against the funds going into his account had a much higher margin for error given Mr Ms 
account was likely to have been in receipt of significant amounts of borrowed credit.
Im also concerned that Money Boat appears to have proceeded with Mr Ms application on 
the basis that he had a monthly disposable income of £2,200.00. I have to question how and 
why Money Boat could reasonably have reached such an outcome given Mr M was 
borrowing £300 on such disadvantageous terms. I cant see any reasonable basis for Mr M 
taking this loan out if he had anywhere near £2,200.00 available in disposable income in the 
first place. 
Bearing in mind all of this, I think that Money Boat needed to take steps to address the clear 
inconsistencies in the information and evidence it had. It is arguable that this in itself was 
enough to decline Mr Ms application. But even if it wasnt, at the very least, Money Boat 
needed to get answers to the significant number of questions thrown up in the information it 
had. And it needed to do this by taking further steps to verify Mr Ms actual monthly income 
and expenditure. 
As I cant see that this Money Boat did do this and instead chose to rely on what looked to 
have been an overoptimistic assessment of Mr M disposable income, I dont think that the 
checks it carried out before providing Mr M with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
I think that if Money Boat had looked further into Mr Ms circumstances, in the way it ought to 
have done, it would have seen that he was earning substantially less that what it believed. 
His income appears to have predominantly made of sickness benefits. To be clear, Im not 
suggesting that Mr M shouldnt have been lent to just because he was in receipt of benefits. 
However, when Mr Ms actual expenditure is deducted from his actual income, it is apparent 
that he was struggling to manage his existing debts. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ms existing financial 
position meant that he was unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would more like than not have shown Money Boat that it shouldnt have provided this 
loan to Mr M. As Money Boat provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him.
Fair compensation  what Money Boat needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive given careful thought to what Money Boat needs to do to put things right for Mr M in this 
case.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it 
should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the 
position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
loan it ought to have realised was unaffordable. And if those interest and charges were paid 
also add 8% simple interest per year. 
Money Boat has said that Mr M hasnt made any payments. So even if we were to uphold 
this complaint there is no interest to refund and we should merely directing it to recover a 
maximum of £300  the amount in lent in the first place  from Mr M. Ive carefully thought 
about what Money Boat has said.
I accept that what Money Boat has suggested I should do is what Id typically tell a firm to do 
when upholding a complaint about irresponsible or unaffordable lending. However, we do 
look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while we have a general 
approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where provided credit it 
shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do something different and/or 
something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be fair and reasonable to 
do in the circumstances of that individual case.
And having given careful thought to the circumstances here, I do think that there is a strong 
reason for me to direct Money Boat to do something different here. Ill explain why in a little 
more detail.
Ive already explained why there were already number of clear warning signs that something 
was clearly awry when Money Boat was gathering information prior to lending to Mr M, which 
Money Boat ignored. And I cant ignore the fact that by providing Mr M with a loan, in these 
circumstances, Money Boat ran the risk that Mr M was incurring a debt he wouldnt be able 
to repay and which could cause significant hardship. 
Furthermore, the evidence Ive been provided with does show that Mr M has a medical 
condition and that this has resulted in him being out of work for sometime. I appreciate that 
Money Boat may not have seen all of this information. Nonetheless, the medical information 
Ive seen indicates that Mr Ms health is unlikely to improve in the short to medium term. So, on the face of things, Mr M has been left with a debt that he wont be able to repay 
without experiencing significant hardship and the prospects of things changing in the near 
future thus enabling Mr M being able to repay this loan arent particularly high. And it is clear 
that Money Boat pursuing the outstanding balance on this loan is causing Mr M additional 
distress at a time when hes already unwell. 
Given all of this and the particular circumstances of this case, I think that the fair and 
reasonable thing for Money Boat to do here would be to write off the entire outstanding 
balance remaining on the loan. So Im directing Money Boat to write off the entire 
outstanding balance, including the amount lent, on Mr Ms loan.
I turn now to Mr Ms credit file. Wed typically expect a lender to remove any adverse 
information about a loan, from the borrowers credit file, where a complaint is upheld for 
irresponsible lending. However, this is when a consumer has paid, or is expected to repay, 
the capital amount they were lent. And given what Im asking Money Boat to do in terms of 
Mr Ms loan, I dont think that telling it to remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit 
file would be the fair and reasonable thing to do here. 
To explain, the basis for Mr Ms complaint was and is that hes a vulnerable consumer and 
that his difficulties were made worse by Money Boats decision to provide this loan to him in 
October 2020 and then pursue the debt in the way that it did. Ive accepted this is the case, 
and this has played a large part in my decision to direct Money Boat to write off the 
outstanding balance on his loan. 
I think that it would be unfair and unreasonable in its logic for me to reach this finding in 
relation to the balance owed, but then depart from it in terms of Mr Ms credit file going 
forward. Indeed, Im mindful that Mr M was able to obtain a loan from Money Boat despite 
the sheer number of declined applications, which suggested an inability to manage his 
finances, which other lenders simply wouldnt know about. And from what I can see, Mr M 
has made a number of further applications, even after he proved unable to repay this 
particular loan and complained about having been provided with it.
In these circumstances, it seems to me that removing the loan, or adverse information from 
Mr Ms credit file, which would in effect record that he repaid it in full and on time when this 
didnt happen, would increase the chances of him being able to borrow further. In my view, 
this would be counterproductive and arguably not in his best interests, or those of any 
potential future lender. So I think its fair and reasonable for Money Boat to reflect what Im 
telling it to do in relation to the outstanding balance and record it wrote off a balance on this 
loan on Mr Ms credit file.
All of this means that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of        
Mr Ms complaint for Money Boat to do the following to put things right:
write off the outstanding balance on Mr Ms loan; and 
Money Boat can and should record that it wrote off an outstanding balance on Mr Ms 
loan on his credit file. My final decision
For the reasons explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman