DRN-3408830
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against 
it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar 
panels.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in June 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading 
Mr D into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr D, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based on 
evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance.
Shawbrook made an offer, but this did not take into account the fact that Mr D had already 
settled his Shawbrook loan by taking out another loan with a third party. Shawbrook 
therefore made a second offer which did take the new loan into account, but the CMC and 
the adjudicator questioned its figures, and asked for a detailed breakdown of how it had 
calculated them. Shawbrook didnt respond, so the case was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr D was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr D from the solar 
panels over the ten year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
If, as expected, the calculation shows that Mr D has paid more than he should have, then 
Shawbrook needs to reimburse him accordingly. (Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation must be shared with 
him by way of explanation.)
Since Mr D has already settled the loan, Shawbrook must pay him the difference between 
what he paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
interest at 8% a year. The refinance information has already been supplied to Shawbrook.
Shawbrook must: 
1. Refund the extra Mr D paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr D paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr D receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr D the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he would 
have owed if the system had been self-funding.
6. Provide the CMC directly with a detailed breakdown of how it arrived at the total 
redress reached under steps 1 to 5, so that the CMC can verify that it is correct.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr D first 
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld in the first place. So 
I direct that Shawbrook must also pay Mr M:
£200 compensation for the inconvenience caused; and
£50 for the further delay occasioned by Shawbrook failing to respond to the request 
for a more detailed breakdown of its calculations (despite having been chased for this 
by me).
Shawbrook and the CMC reached different calculations about the total amount Mr D had 
paid towards his Shawbrook loan before he settled it on 6 September 2019. Shawbrook 
thought it came to £4,724.49, and the CMC said it was really £4,848.38. I have checked 
Mr Ds Shawbrook loan statement myself, and I find that it actually comes to £4,724.49, 
which is the same as Shawbrooks figure. The difference between that sum and the CMCs 
figure appears to mostly be made up of an unpaid direct debit on 6 September 2018 (which 
was debited from the account the next day), a reversed late payment fee which was re-
credited to Mr Ds account on 10 May 2019, and another £15 which I cannot explain. I am 
satisfied that Shawbrooks calculation of this figure is correct. (I have not investigated 
Shawbrooks offer further.)
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited must 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman