DRN-3796616
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt transfer the value of his
self invested personal pension (SIPP) to his new provider promptly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 13 October 2022. Ive recapped here what I said about 
what had led up to Mr Bs complaint. Ive also repeated my provisional findings, what I 
provisionally decided and how I thought Mr B should be redressed.  
Im not going to set out details of what happened and how the transfer was progressed as
Aviva accepts there were delays. Aviva paid a transfer value of £505,309.78 on 6 July 2020
to Mr Bs new provider. It shouldve been paid on 16 June 2020. In its letter of 20 August
2020 Avia said it would check if Mr B had lost out financially because of the delay. It offered
£250 for trouble and upset which was later increased to £500 in total.
In its letter dated 14 June 2021 Aviva said that the transfer value wouldve purchased more
units in (some of) the various funds in which the transfer value (after payment of a lump sum
of £60,000 and deduction of charges) was invested. Aviva calculated Mr Bs loss at
£5,886.74. Aviva offered £5,003.73 to be paid direct to Mr B and taking into account that a
payment out of the pension would be tax free on 25% and subject to (basic rate) income tax
on the remainder. I understand that Aviva also offered £2,337.51 to Mr Bs financial adviser
for the additional work resulting from the delay.
Mr B didnt accept Avivas offer and he referred his complaint to us. On his complaint form
he said thered been numerous delays on Avivas part. He said the final straw was Avivas
refusal to transfer the outstanding funds as a tax free payment to his new provider.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. Initially he said that what Aviva
had offered was fair and reasonable and Aviva didnt need to do any more. In summary
Aviva had accepted it had made mistakes in dealing with Mr Bs pension transfer. The issue
was whether Aviva had put things right and fairly compensated Mr B for the delays and any
resulting losses. The investigator thought Aviva had done that and so he didnt think Aviva
needed to do any more.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators views. He said Aviva had sent him two cheques for
£250 but one cheque had been mislaid and when Mr B had tried pay it in he couldnt,
presumably because it was by then out of date. Hed written to Aviva in April 2022 to request
a replacement but, as at 28 June 2022, he hadnt received anything. Hed been unaware of
the amount offered to his financial adviser so couldnt confirm if it had been accepted or not.
Aviva had offered £5,003.73 after tax deduction to compensate him for his loss. He didnt
view that as compensation as such but repayment of his own money. Despite numerous
requests by him and his adviser, Aviva had refused to deposit the funds tax free into his
pension fund. Having resigned himself to that he waited for the cheque to arrive. It had been
promised in June 2021 and eventually arrived in March 2022, so a delay of nine months.
Mr B said it seemed Aviva had imposed a ceiling of £500 as payment for trouble and upset,
even though after that hed suffered continuing inconvenience. Mr B didnt agree with the
deduction for tax. He said the payment wasnt compensation but an adjustment to cover a
loss that was incurred and the full amount of £5,886.74 shouldve been deposited in his
account with the new provider. Making a payment directly to him meant a loss of £883.01.
Hed been denied the opportunity of a tax free transfer for all his funds.
The investigator wrote to the parties on 26 September 2022 to explain his views had
changed. He now didnt think Aviva had done enough. If there hadnt been any delay, Mr B
wouldve benefitted from the payment being invested in his pension without any tax
deduction. The investigator said he was unaware of any practical or allowance issues
preventing Aviva from paying compensation in that way, even if it wasnt Avivas normal
procedure. He also said Mr B couldve taken the money tax free. And, although £5.003.73
was offered in June 2021, the cheque wasnt issued until March 2022. The investigator
asked Aviva if it was prepared to adjust its offer and pay a sum into Mr Bs new pension to
reinstate him (as far as possible) to the position hed have been in if the transfer value had
been paid at the correct time. I dont think Aviva has replied.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where, as here, the business accepts it was at fault and has offered to put things right, all I
need to consider is if whats been offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
the complaint.
In awarding compensation we aim, as far as possible, to put the consumer in the position
theyd be in if the business had done what it shouldve done and with no delay.
I dont think the loss calculation  showing a loss of £5,886.74  is disputed. But because
Aviva wanted to pay compensation direct to Mr B, rather than into his pension fund, Aviva
deducted 15% from it (to reflect that for any withdrawals from the pension 25% would have
been tax free and the balance subject to income tax at Mr Bs marginal rate, presumed to be
basic rate of 20%). So Aviva was only prepared to pay the net sum of £5,003.73 to Mr B.
Mr B says the full amount shouldve been transferred and so the tax thats been deducted
(£883.01) represents a financial loss to him. I understand his argument. But although theres
no liability to tax while the money remains in the pension fund, when it comes to be paid out,
income tax may be payable. The deduction for income tax is aimed at preventing someone
from being over compensated. If, when the money is taken out of the pension, thered be a
liability to income tax, it wouldnt be fair to ignore that when compensation is paid direct to
the consumer, rather than by a payment into the pension fund and which is later paid out. Id
add that if compensation is paid into the pension fund then it may not be the full amount 
wed usually say the business can pay in whatever sum is necessary, taking into account
any available allowances, so as to increase the fund value by the relevant amount. If the loss
is £5,886.74, a lower sum might be paid in to take into account any tax relief. Again it
wouldnt be fair if tax relief will increase the amount thats paid.
Turning to Avivas loss calculation, it was based on the amounts invested in each fund, the
unit prices and the number of units purchased. Aviva then looked at the number of units in
each investment that wouldve been purchased if the transfer had been completed earlier at
the unit prices then applicable  which in some cases was higher and in others lower. Thedifferences in values were then added up which showed an overall loss of £5,886.53.
That figure represents Mr Bs loss as at the date of the transfer. Aviva made its offer on 14
June 2021. That was almost exactly a year after the transfer shouldve been done. And the
cheque then wasnt sent until 11 March 2022. In theory Mr B had lost out on the tax free
growth the shortfall wouldve enjoyed in the pension fund. Ive said, in theory as, depending
on how Mr Bs fund has performed in the interim, its possible there might be no or a reduced
loss. Or, if his investments have done well, the loss might be more.
We could ask Aviva to recalculate if theres any loss on an up to date basis and using Mr Bs
actual current fund value and taking into account the payment Aviva made on 11 March
2022. But the calculation which Aviva undertook was complex  it involved over 50 different
investments. An up to date calculation is likely to be even more so, especially if there have
been fund switches and any payments in or out of the pension scheme which have to be
factored in.
I dont think, given that delay has been a feature of this case, including when it comes to
paying compensation, it would be in Mr Bs interests (or indeed Avivas), to prolong matters
by saying the calculation should be undertaken again, using up to date figures. Instead, Im
going to take a pragmatic approach and say it would be fair and reasonable to use
£5,886.53 as the starting point for Mr Bs loss.
Although Mr B disagrees with a cash payment being made, Ive explained above why I dont
think Aviva should simply pay the full loss figure of £5,886.53 into Mr Bs pension fund. And
we wouldnt normally insist that a business must make a payment into the pension  that
might not be possible and it can cause allowance or protection issues. Instead, where a cash
payment has been offered, wed look at whether the amount offered was fair and reasonable
and taking into account the considerations Ive referred to above. If Aviva prefers to make a
cash payment then I dont propose to interfere with that and when, as Ive said, Im trying to
avoid any further delays and take a pragmatic and simpler approach.
I think £5,003.73 is a fair measure of Mr Bs loss. But I think Aviva should also pay interest
on that sum to reflect the delay in payment. Aviva should pay interest at 8% simple pa from
the date the transfer shouldve been made  16 June 2020  to 11 March 2022. Thats the
rate of interest wed normally use where the consumer has been kept out of their money.
In so far as the payment for distress and inconvenience is concerned, it seems Aviva has
offered in total £500 but because one of the cheques wasnt paid when he presented it, Mr B
has only been paid £250. Id ask Aviva to make arrangements for a replacement cheque, as
requested by Mr B, to be issued as soon as possible.
I note Mr Bs comments about having suffered further and ongoing inconvenience because
of Avivas continued delays. But I think the £500 offered is fair and reasonable and in line
with what wed award in a case such as this and taking into account the ongoing
inconvenience. Im not going to say that Aviva needs to pay any more for the trouble and
upset Mr B has suffered overall.
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay interest at 8% simple
pa on £5,003,73 from 16 June 2020 to 11 March 2022. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited
should also ensure that the payment of £500 offered for distress and inconvenience is
received by Mr B. As Ive noted above, it seems that £250 remains outstanding.
Aviva didnt comment in response to my provisional decision. Mr B confirmed safe receipt but didnt have anything to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered the complaint again, and in the absence of any further comments, 
evidence or arguments, my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. Ive repeated 
what I said above and it forms part of this decision. For the reasons Ive indicated Im 
upholding the complaint. 
Ive set out below how Aviva needs to redress Mr B. It follows what I said in my provisional 
decision. In my view, a pragmatic approach is best. I think what I proposed (to which Mr B 
hasnt objected) is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Putting things right
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay interest at 8% simple pa on £5,003,73 from 16 
June 2020 to 11 March 2022. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should also ensure that the 
payment of £500 offered for distress and inconvenience is received by Mr B. As Ive noted 
above, it seems that £250 remains outstanding.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited must redress Mr B as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman