DRN-3227250
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt fairly refunded the premiums 
they paid for an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
On 15 July 2020, Mr and Mrs C took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy to cover 
trips taken within Europe of up to 45 days. The policy was provided by Great Lakes and 
cover started on 31 July 2020 and ran until 30 July 2021. 
Mr and Mrs C paid a total of £379.66 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the 
standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, which also covered them for a 
declared medical condition relating to Mr C.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr and Mrs C said they werent able to travel as theyd 
intended. And on 1 March 2021, they contacted Great Lakes to request a policy extension. 
But Great Lakes stated this wasnt possible and it didnt offer a premium refund at this point. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt cancel their policy. 
On 27 June 2021 Mr and Mrs C were sent a renewal invitation by Great Lakes. Shortly after 
they received it, Mr and Mrs C contacted Great Lakes and raised a complaint in relation to 
how their request for a policy extension had been dealt with.
Great Lakes investigated Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and, on 26 August 2021, it issued its 
final response. In its response, Great Lakes stated that if Mr and Mrs C had cancelled their 
policy when they contacted it, on 1 March 2021, theyd have been entitled to a 15% refund of 
the premium theyd paid (£56.95). Great Lakes explained that Mr and Mrs C should have 
been told about this, which was an oversight on its part. Great Lakes apologised and said it 
would be making a payment of £56.95 to Mr and Mrs C, which it did on 28 August 2021.
Mr and Mrs C rejected the offer Great Lakes had made to resolve their complaint. They 
wanted a full refund of the premiums theyd paid. So, they referred their complaint to our 
service where an investigator looked into the matter. 
Our investigator empathised with Mr and Mrs C and acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 31 July 2020 and the 
policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint as they were persuaded that the 15% refund made to Mr and Mrs C was fair and 
reasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mr and Mrs C didnt 
and requested an ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a 
fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
Cover under Mr and Mrs Cs policy commenced on 31 July 2020, which is confirmed by the 
insurance documentation they received. Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C were reasonably made 
aware of the terms that applied to their policy, which are typical of the cancellation terms 
found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date your policy commences, or the date 
you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later. 
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your holiday return date is within one month of the commencement of your policy...
Your cover has commenced...
You have made or are intending to make a claim
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by contacting 
us, but no refund of premium will be available.
The policy wasnt cancelled within the cooling off period and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive 
outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have to pay any 
refund of a policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. 
In this case, Mr and Mrs Cs cooling-off period ended on 14 August 2020. But Mr and Mrs C 
didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss their policy until 1 March 2021  and at this point they 
requested a policy extension, which they were told wasnt possible. They didnt request the 
cancellation of their policy at any time. And, even if they had done on 1 March 2021, this 
would have been outside the cooling off period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this 
because its a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear 
risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for cancellation 
outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have prevented Mr and Mrs C 
from travelling as theyd have liked or intended and that this was outside of their control. So, 
Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from 
industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Cs contract because of the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Cs 
contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 31 July 2020.Mr and Mrs C were insured from 31 July 2020 for travelling on any number of trips within 
Europe of up to 45 days duration which they may have taken until the policy expired. 
Theyve said they didnt have the opportunity of travelling due to the pandemic. But, because 
of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how 
many such trips a policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs C for cancellation of any holidays which 
they may have had booked and were due to take from 31 July 2020 until 30 July 2021. So, 
they would have been covered if they had had to cancel any number of holidays because of 
any listed events insured under the policy including, for example, Mr C falling ill with his 
declared pre-existing medical condition. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr and Mrs C making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, from 
31 July 2020 until 30 July 2021. And its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the 
insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a time  the 
premium paid is not returnable. So, regardless of what Mr and Mrs Cs cancellation rights 
were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr and Mrs C contacted Great Lakes on 
1 March 2021 to request an extension of their policy. But they didnt cancel their policy and it 
ran until its expiry on 30 July 2021. By the time Mr and Mrs C contacted Great lakes to 
request an extension, there was only 151 days left to run on the policy before it expired. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs C have said they should receive a full refund of the premium 
because they havent been able to use their policy. They think the 15% refund theyve been 
offered is unfair. But I think Great Lakes has acted reasonably here because its treated the 
date Mr and Mrs C first contacted it in the same way it would have done had they requested 
the cancellation of their policy at that time.
If Mr and Mrs C had requested that Great Lakes cancel their policy on 1 March 2021, theyd 
have been on cover for around 214 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an annual 
multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not spread evenly 
across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated that there was a 
material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this annual insurance 
policy. Im persuaded that the refund Great Lakes has already paid Mr and Mrs C 
appropriately reflects the spread of risk. And Im satisfied it hasnt treated them unfairly or 
any differently to other customers in similar circumstances.
Based on the information and evidence supplied in support of this complaint, I think Great 
Lakes has acted fairly and reasonably in refunding Mr and Mrs C £56.95. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman