DRN-3650704
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr B says that he received a notification from Monzo about an attempted payment for 
around £1,000 that he hadnt made. Soon after, Mr B received a call from someone who said 
they were from Monzo. Mr B was told that other payments had been attempted from his 
account that had been intercepted by Monzo. In order to keep his funds safe Mr B was told 
he needed to move them to a safe account. 
The call was from a number that was the same as Monzos with the exception of the last 
digit which persuaded Mr B it was genuine. The caller also sounded professional, knew 
some personal details about Mr B and played hold music. 
On the instructions of the caller Mr B made the following payments:
Date Amount Method and payee
06/09/21 £9,000 Card payment to C  a cryptocurrency app
06/09/21 £900 Card payment to C  a cryptocurrency app
06/09/21 £4,219.63 Faster payment to Mr Bs existing cryptocurrency account 
with a different company
Total £14,119.63
Mr B says he asked the caller why he was paying C and was told it was a platform Monzo 
use to make payments. The final payment was to an existing cryptocurrency account in Mr 
Bs name before being moved to a wallet. Mr B thought the card payments to C would also 
be transferred to this wallet and once a new account was set up all the funds would be 
transferred to it. 
Monzo hasnt agreed to provide Mr B with a refund. It says that a chargeback claim in 
respect of the card payments wouldnt be successful as Mr B received the service he 
expected from the cryptocurrency provider. And Monzo said that as the faster payment was 
to another cryptocurrency company and not the scammer Mr B should ask the 
cryptocurrency company to investigate. Mr B was unhappy with Monzos response and so 
brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Bs complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. 
She said that the £9,000 card payment was unusual and out of character and had Monzo 
asked Mr B questions about the reason for the payment the scam would have been 
uncovered. If the scam had been prevented the other payments also wouldnt have been 
made. But the investigator thought liability should be shared with Mr B because he should 
have been concerned about being asked to move his funds to cryptocurrency accounts and 
should have made additional checks. 
Mr B accepted the investigators findings but Monzo did not. In summary, it said:
- The funds were sent to cryptocurrency wallets in Mr Bs own name and he had 
control of the accounts. Mr B legitimately purchased cryptocurrency and then moved 
funds to the scammer.
- Monzo has transaction monitoring in place but no further intervention was needed as 
the payments were within daily limits. And although the payments were high for Mr B 
they werent unusual when considered against the payments Monzo sees on a daily 
basis. If Monzo intervened in payments such as the ones Mr B made, legitimate 
payments would be significantly disrupted. 
- Mr B had experience of cryptocurrency wallets and should have been aware the 
market isnt regulated. It also wouldnt make sense for a bank to tell a customer to 
move funds to a cryptocurrency account and back.
The complaint has now been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have
taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Monzo acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr B when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than it did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Did Monzo act fairly and reasonably when the payments were made?The first two payments Mr B made were card payments to a cryptocurrency company. I 
consider Monzo acted reasonably in not raising a chargeback in respect of these card 
payments. I say this because I dont believe there was a reasonable chance of a successful 
claim given the fact the cryptocurrency company provided the service it was meant to. And 
card payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards CRM Code. 
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Monzo should have 
been on the lookout for unusual or uncharacteristic transactions. So Ive considered whether 
the payment requests Mr B made were unusual or uncharacteristic. Having considered Mr 
Bs account activity in the months before the scam I agree with the investigator that the first 
payment of £9,000 was so unusual given Mr Bs account and payment history that Monzo 
should have intervened and asked Mr B proportionate questions about it.
By far the majority of the transactions Mr B made in the six months before this payment were 
for less than £100. Other than transfers to his own pot, the highest value transaction I can 
see on the account is a transfer to someone I assume is a family member of £1,000. And 
while Mr B had transferred funds to cryptocurrency companies before the amounts were 
considerably lower (all below £500).  Mr B was also paying a new payee and a previous 
payment of £10,000 had been declined (I understand because of daily limits).
I note Monzos comments about the fact the £9,000 card payment wasnt significant when 
compared with other payments it makes daily. Whilst that may be the case, its not the point 
here. What is unusual for one customer wont be for another  it all depends on previous 
account history. 
I accept that theres a balance to be struck between stopping and checking payments and 
allowing customers free access to their accounts. But in this case, I consider that Monzo 
should have done more to protect Mr B given the points I have already raised. 
In 2018 the Financial Conduct Authority and Action Fraud published warnings about 
cryptocurrency scams. Since then this type of fraud has become more prevalent. So Monzo 
should have been aware of this type of scam and had measures in place to detect potentially 
fraudulent payments. 
Monzo has said that Mr B legitimately purchased cryptocurrency and so it didnt need to do 
any more when he made the payments. But this approach fails to take into account the 
knowledge Monzo should have had about scams involving cryptocurrency or the fact that 
were it not for the scam Mr B wouldnt have paid such a significant sum to a cryptocurrency 
company.  
Im also not persuaded Monzos conversation with Mr B should have stopped if Mr B said he 
was paying an account in his own name. I consider Monzo should have asked further 
questions about the reason for the payment and provided appropriate scam warnings and 
that had it done so, the spell would have been broken and the payments prevented. Mr B 
didnt have a plausible explanation for the £9,000 card payment and there were numerous 
red flags.
Had this payment been prevented Mr B wouldnt have made any further payments so I dont 
need to go on to consider the other two payments, except to say that the third payment 
drained Mr Bs account of funds. It was also the third payment to a cryptocurrency company 
on the same day and was to another new payee. So Monzo really should have done more 
when this payment request was made
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr B should also bear some responsibility for his loss. Like 
the investigator, I think that he should. I dont consider the story given to Mr B by the 
scammer was plausible. I appreciate Mr B was under pressure to keep his funds safe, but I 
dont think it was reasonable to believe that to do so Mr B needed to exchange funds for 
cryptocurrency and back again. Cryptocurrency is a high risk investment and isnt regulated 
so I dont consider it reasonable to believe a bank would keep funds safe in the manner Mr B was told. Mr B was also asked to make the final payment to an existing cryptocurrency 
account and then transfer this to the callers wallet which seems very odd. So I think Mr B 
should share responsibility for his loss and receive 50% of all payments.
Finally, I consider the £25 award Monzo has already provided in respect of the service it 
provided is fair and reasonable. Mr B felt Monzos responses were robotic and Monzo has 
accepted it could have shown more empathy. But Monzo must balance this against its need 
to establish the facts and gather evidence to enable it to investigate a fraud claim effectively.  
My final decision
I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
- Refund 50% of the payments Mr B lost in the scam (amounting to £7,059.82);
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman