DRN-3705726
The complaint
Mr A complains that the advice he received from INTERESTME FINANCIAL PLANNING 
LIMITED trading as Wise Pension Group (Wise) to transfer his three existing personal 
pensions with other providers into the Wise Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) was 
negligent. He also feels that the investment advice he received was inappropriate. And that 
he had to pay unnecessary fees throughout the switching and investment process.
Mr A wants to be put back to the financial position he shouldve been had he not followed the 
advice from Wise.
Mr A is represented in his complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision. 
What happened
Wise havent provided this service with their business file on this complaint. 
Mr A said Wise approached him in 2016 and offered to review his pensions.
After Mr A discussed his pensions with Wise, they produced a suitability report dated 26 
October 2016. This recorded the following:
At the time of the advice, Mr A was 48. He was married with two dependent children. 
He was employed and had earnings of around £2,000 each month.
He had three separate personal pensions with three different providers.
Mr A wanted to retire by age 65. He wanted to be mortgage-free. He felt he would 
need £1,000 each month to live comfortably in retirement.
The report said Mr A had other sources of income in retirement. But said that he 
would need to have a regular pension in retirement.
Mr A felt that he would need to have a pension income guaranteed for life.
Mr As attitude to risk was recorded as relatively cautious. He said his risk profile was 
lower to medium.
The adviser recommended that Mr A transferred his three existing personal pensions to the 
Wise SIPP. He recommended he invested in the Defensive Portfolio managed by another 
provider. 
In the suitability report, the adviser acknowledged that Mr As existing pension plans had 
produced positive returns, but said that he would benefit from an investment manager who 
would manage his pension fund daily. And who had the ability to react to market events and 
de-risk his pension when appropriate. He also said that the recommended investment 
manager would be able to provide Mr A with additional growth by potentially outperforming 
the market when it underperformed. The adviser also recommended that Mr A should make 
monthly contributions of £77.57 each month.
The suitability report gave the following reasons that the adviser had recommended that Mr 
A switched his three pension plans to the Wise SIPP, and follow a new investment strategy: 
Mr A would have greater investment flexibility and greater flexibility when he 
eventually took his retirement benefits. 
He would have a wider fund choice.
The recommended investment strategy offered greater potential returns which 
justified the penalty on transfer of the one existing plan which had a transfer 
penalty. 
Mr A wouldnt lose any guarantees within his existing pension plans.
The suitability report listed the charges for the advisers recommendation as follows:
£114 each year pension wrapper charge,
0.84% Investment management charge
0.42% dealing charge
And stated that the annual charges Mr A was currently paying for his existing plans were 
2.3%, 1.0% and 1.9% respectively. 
The suitability report also said that the adviser would charge a 3% initial fee for the advice 
and implementation of the recommendation. This was estimated as £1,874. There was also 
an ongoing advisory service charge of 0.75% each year. This was estimated as £454 in the 
first year.
Mr A completed an application form to open the recommended Wise SIPP on 8 November 
2016. The SIPP was set up shortly afterwards.
I understand that the SIPP was transferred to another provider in early 2020.
Mr A complained to Wise through a CMC in late 2020. From what Ive seen, Wise didnt 
engage with the complaint, so no final response letter was issued. Mr A brought his 
complaint to this service in January 2021.
Our investigator felt that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the advice Wise gave 
to Mr A to transfer his three existing personal pensions wasnt in his best interests. She 
considered that Wise should put Mr A back as close as possible to the position he would be 
in now if hed been given suitable advice in 2016. And that they should pay him £300 for the 
distress the unsuitable advice had caused. 
I understand that Wise didnt respond to our investigator. So the complaint was passed to 
me for a review.
I issued my provisional decision on 18 August 2022. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that the 2016 advice Wise 
gave to Mr A was unsuitable. But Ive made a slightly different recommendation about how to 
put things right. This is because I consider that Mr A should also be compensated for the 
investment return he wouldve got on any additional pension funds he wouldve transferred 
to his current provider in 2020. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
As Wise havent provided their business file, or responded to our investigators view, my 
decision is based on the available evidence. 
In 2009 the Financial Services Authority (now the FCA) published a report and checklist for 
pension switching that is still applicable. That checklist identified four main areas where 
consumers had lost out:
They had been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their existing 
one(s) or a stakeholder pension (because of exit penalties and/or initial costs and 
ongoing costs) without good reason
They had lost benefits in the pension switch without good reason. This could include 
the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the 
right to take benefits at an earlier than normal retirement age
They had switched into a pension that does not match their recorded attitude to risk 
and personal circumstances
They had switched into a pension where there is a need for ongoing investment 
reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ive considered these areas, where relevant, in my decision below. 
I considered Mr As circumstances at the time of the advice. He didnt actively seek out 
advice on moving his pensions. Instead, he was approached by Wise.  So, until that 
approach, I consider that Mr A was satisfied with his three existing pension plans and wasnt 
actively seeking advice for them.
I went on to consider whether the adviser should have put Mr A at ease about his existing 
pension arrangements instead of recommending the switch. I would expect to see 
reasonable potential for Mr A to be better off to make the advice suitable.
Wise compared the existing pensions with their recommended SIPP. In like-for-like 
projections, the suitability report said that the total expected projected values at age 65 of Mr 
As existing pensions was £97,021. And the total projected value at age 65 of the 
recommended SIPP was £96,500. So the like-for-like projections indicated that the 
recommendation would lead to a lower total projected value. 
The report also gave much higher projected values at age 65 for the recommended SIPP 
based on its 5 year annualised performance less all the charges taken, including my advice 
fees. The report also stated that the recommended investment provider had: reported 
returns over the past 5 years of over 9% (as at September 2016). And elsewhere in the 
report, it said that the recommended investment portfolio had a five-year annualised 
performance of 9.49%. But then stated that as the investment provider had only been 
running the portfolio for one year, the five-year performance had been based produced by 
being: back-tested on a simulated basis. The total projected value on this basis was 
£206,400. The report stated that this projection had been based on an annualised performance figure of 10.18%. 
The report also noted that the recommended SIPP wasnt cheaper than Mr As existing 
providers. 
Based on the limited information available to me, Im not persuaded that the adviser 
demonstrated that there was reasonable potential for Mr A to be better off. I say this 
because the like-for-like projections showed that it was likely that Mr A would be slightly 
worse off at age 65. And the report also indicated that the recommended option wasnt 
cheaper than his existing arrangements. 
I acknowledge that the report gave much higher projected values based on the annualised 
performance of the recommended portfolio. But I dont think the report was completely clear 
that there was only one year of actual performance history to base the projections on. And I 
dont consider that it was fair or reasonable to base a long-term projection on a single year of 
actual fund performance. 
Overall, I dont consider that the projections fairly demonstrated that Mr A would be better 
off. Therefore, in this regard, I dont consider that the advice was suitable. 
As noted above, the regulator outlined what should be considered when advising on a 
pension switch. They said that if additional costs were involved with the advice to switch, or if 
the client ended up paying for services they were unlikely to use, this is likely to indicate that 
the advice was unsuitable.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr A was in need of regular ongoing advice. Therefore Im 
not persuaded that the additional ongoing charges wouldve provided him with a better 
outcome.
Wise gave reasons for making the recommendation in the suitability report. These are listed 
in the Background section above. Although these reasons might all be correct, it was the 
advisers responsibility to give Mr A suitable advice. And even though the recommended 
SIPP would provide him with the opportunity to drawdown his retirement benefits, which his 
existing options didnt, Mr A was around 17 years away from his retirement age, and around 
seven years away from being allowed to withdraw money from his pension. Im not 
persuaded that there was any need to make the switch at the time of the advice in order to 
have a drawdown option so many years later. Mr A couldve waited until he was approaching 
retirement age. He couldve still switched at that point, when he wouldve known exactly 
what he wanted.
The regulator also said that if a consumer had switched into a pension that didnt match their 
recorded attitude to risk and personal circumstances, this would likely indicate that the 
advice was unsuitable. 
Mr A said that his adviser recommended that he invest in wholly inappropriate assets, which 
were unsuitable for a person of his circumstances. He said that Wise had failed in their duty 
of care to protect his best interests. He said that hed lost capital and the benefit of growth 
that his original pension plans wouldve provided him with. 
I considered whether the recommended investment was suitable for Mr A at the time it was 
recommended. Mr As attitude to risk was recorded as relatively cautious. He said his risk 
profile was lower to medium.
Ive seen the 2016 factsheet about the recommended investment. It states that the risk level 
associated with the investment was 3 out of 7, so just at the lower end of the risk scale. Ive not seen any detail on how the adviser assessed Mr As attitude to risk, so cant comment on 
this. On the face of it, the recommended investment appears to meet Mr As recorded 
attitude to risk. 
But, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Mr A needed access to the additional funds 
the recommended investment gave him. Im also not persuaded that Mr A needed access to 
a Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM). His existing schemes offered access to a wide range 
of funds already. And Mr A wasnt an experienced or knowledgeable investor, so he had no 
reason to look for specialist or sophisticated investments. Im also not persuaded that the 
existing fund selection was fully explored before the adviser recommended the transfer. Mr A 
was also described in the suitability report as a cautious investor. So I dont consider that the 
added costs he would incur to access more specialist and sophisticated investment services 
would be worthwhile.
I also note that although the suitability report stated that Mr A had other sources of income in 
retirement, theres no evidence that the adviser fully explored what these sources were and 
whether they would provide Mr A enough income in retirement to meet his needs and 
objectives. From what Ive seen, Mr As three existing pensions were his only pension 
provision, so he had little to no capacity for loss with his retirement savings. Ive also seen 
no evidence that Mr A had any significant savings that could form part of his retirement 
provision. So Mr A would have nothing to fall back on if the recommended SIPP failed to 
perform well. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice to transfer Mr As existing pensions to the Wise SIPP 
was unsuitable. I also consider that the investment advice Mr A received was inappropriate. 
And that the advice required him to pay unnecessary fees throughout the switching and 
investment process. Therefore I intend to uphold the complaint. I also consider that the 
unsuitable advice, and the impact it has had on Mr As retirement planning, has caused him 
distress. Therefore I consider that Wise should also pay Mr A £300 compensation for the 
distress the unsuitable advice caused. 
Response to my provisional decision 
Mr A didnt reply to my provisional decision. 
Wise said they werent aware of the original decision. And that they hadnt received it. Our 
investigator told Wise that her original assessment had been sent to them along with a 
chaser email. She said she was satisfied they had been sent to the correct email address. 
And that as wed never received a response, the complaint had been referred to me for a 
final decision. She told Wise that as Id issued my provisional decision, they needed to let us 
know by 15 September 2022 if there were any final points theyd like to make.
Wise didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No new information has come to light to change my opinion. So I remain of the view I set out 
in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr A should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr A wouldve remained with his previous providers, however I cannot be 
certain that values will be obtainable for what the previous policies wouldve been worth. Or 
what his current I also cannot be certain that it will be possible to obtain the investment 
performance from Mr As current provider. This is needed so that any loss assessed up to 
the date most of the SIPP funds were transferred to Mr As current provider can be rolled 
forward to the date of any final decision. I am satisfied what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable, taking this into account and given Mr A's circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
What must Wise do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Wise must:
Compare the performance of Mr A's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained with the previous providers. If the actual value is greater than the notional 
value, no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual 
value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.
I understand that Mr A transferred most of his investment out of the Wise SIPP to 
another provider in 2020. If there is a loss, the compensation calculated above 
should adjusted to allow for the investment performance Mr A actually achieved with 
his current provider between the date most of the Wise SIPP funds were transferred 
to Mr As current provider and the date of any final decision.
Wise should add interest as set out below.
Wise should pay into Mr A's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
I understand that an illiquid asset remains invested in Mr As Wise SIPP. Unless the 
above comparison shows no compensation is payable, the current value of this 
remaining investment should be offset against the compensation to be paid, and, 
with Mr As permission, the SIPP can then be fully closed.  
If Wise is unable to pay the total amount into Mr A's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr A wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr A's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, as Mr A is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr A would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.If the advisers fees were paid independently of the pension transfers, and not taken 
from the transferred funds, Wise must also repay those fees, together with simple 
interest at 8% a year, from the date the fees were paid to the date of settlement. If 
the above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference 
between the actual value and the notional value can be offset against the fees with 
interest.
In addition, Wise must pay Mr A £300 for the distress caused by the negligent advice 
and the impact on his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr A in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wise deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr A how much has been taken off. Wise should give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr A asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional interest
SIPP No longer in 
force*Notional value 
from previous 
providersDate of 
investmentDate most of 
SIPP funds 
were 
transferred to 
current 
provider8% simple per year 
from my final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
*Although I understand the SIPP still is in force due to a small amount of illiquid assets remaining, Ive 
considered it to be no longer in force for the purposes of this assessment.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr A's investment had it remained with the previous provider until the 
end date. Wise should request that the previous providers calculate this value.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional value calculation from 
the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the notional value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept 
the total of those payments being deducted at the end to determine the notional value 
instead of deducting periodically.
If the previous providers are unable to calculate a notional value, Wise will need to 
determine a fair value for Mr A's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of 
a fair value using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the 
calculation of compensation.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
If the previous providers, or the current provider, are unable to calculate a notional 
value, then I consider the measure below is appropriate.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr As 
circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint. I require INTERESTME FINANCIAL 
PLANNING LIMITED trading as Wise Pension Group to pay the amount calculated as set 
out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman