DRN-4322304
The complaint
Mr F complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds, trading as Assurant, settlement 
of his mobile phone insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents. 
What happened
Mr F has mobile phone insurance through his bank account. The insurer is Assurant. In 
April 2023 Mr F called Assurant to make a claim for his damaged mobile phone as the back 
casing was cracked. Assurant accepted the claim and told Mr F to send it the phone for 
repair by its approved repairer.
Mr F was unhappy as he wanted to take his phone to the phone manufacturers local shop 
for repair and claim back the costs from Assurant. 
Mr F spoke to a representative in Assurants complaints team who told him it was possible 
for Assurant to arrange a walk in repair with the phone manufacturers shop but eligibility 
depended on the phone damage, parts required and customer location. Damage to the back 
of a phone wasnt eligible damage so Mr F needed to send the phone to Assurant for repair. 
The representative also said it was likely that the phone manufacturer would replace the 
phone, not repair it, and charge Mr F for a replacement phone.
Mr F took his damaged phone to the phone manufacturers local shop and it charged Mr F 
£369 to do the repair. Assurant wouldnt refund the cost to Mr F.
Mr F complained to us. He said:
Assurant should pay him the cost of the repair by the phone manufacturer because 
he wanted his phone repaired before his trip, which was four days later. And his main 
concern with his phone being sent to Assurants approved repairer was that during a 
call Assurant told him there was no guarantee that the phone manufacturers parts 
would be used in the repair. Also if the phone was classed as beyond economic 
repair Assurant couldnt guarantee that the replacement phone would be exactly the 
same.
In one of Assurants final response letters it said his phone had water damage, which 
was wrong. He then spoke to another Assurant representative who accepted hed 
been told wrong information about the phone manufacturer probably replacing, not 
repairing, the phone but she only offered an apology.
In another of Assurants final response letters it upheld his complaint but wouldnt pay 
his claim or compensation for his inconvenience and upset due to the whole 
situation. Hed had the insurance policy for about 10 years and never used it so he 
shouldnt have to pay for the repair. He said he hadnt been taken seriously or 
received a genuine apology from Assurant.
Assurant said as its representative wrongly told Mr F the phone manufacturer wouldnt repair 
his phone it had upheld that part of his complaint. But it had correctly told Mr F that the 
damage to his phone didnt meet its criteria for having the phone repaired by the phone 
manufacturer. And it had correctly told Mr F he needed to return the phone to it to repair, as 
set out in the policy terms.
Our investigator said Assurant had acted fairly in not paying Mr F the phone manufacturers 
repair costs hed paid.
Mr F disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. In summary he added:
Hed never received a copy of the policy from the bank or Assurant. So Assurant 
couldnt rely on a policy term that hed never seen and hes never entered into an 
insurance agreement with Assurant on those policy terms.
He sent us a work authorisation form (WAF) from the phone manufacturer which he 
said showed it could and did repair his phone, contrary to what hed been told by 
Assurant.
He didnt feel safe travelling abroad without a mobile phone. Assurant offered to 
repair the phone on his return home but he was concerned that the damage to the 
phone would get worse or the phone may stop working as a result of delaying the 
repair. So his decision to have the repair done by the phone manufacturer could be 
mitigation to avoid potentially inflated claim costs or the claim being invalidated.
If hed returned the phone to Assurant it would have had to pay to get the phone 
repaired though its repairers, so it should at least pay him that cost.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I explained why I was intending to partly uphold the complaint. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably.
Ive considered all the points Mr F has made but in my findings I wont address all the points 
or answer all the questions hes asked. Ill focus on the reasons why Ive made my decision 
and the key points which I think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
Im intending to partly uphold the complaint. I think Assurant acted fairly in not paying Mr F 
the phone manufacturers costs to repair his phone and not paying him compensation. But 
I think Assurant should pay Mr F the costs it would have paid to have the phone repaired by 
its approved repairer. Ill explain why.
The policy says:
If your mobile phone is damaged or breaks down we will either:
1. repair the mobile phone (where possible) or
2. replace it with a mobile phone of the same make and model. If we cannot do this 
you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
The policy gives details about how to return the phone to Assurant for repair. Im satisfied 
that Assurant acted in line with the policy terms in telling Mr F that he needed to return the 
phone for repair.Mr F says that as he didnt receive the policy document he didnt enter into a policy with 
Assurant on those terms. But if Mr F didnt enter into the insurance contract then there is no 
cover for his phone at all. Mr F did consider that his phone was covered by the policy as he 
called Assurant to make a claim for his damaged phone.
The policy requirement that a phone is returned to the insurer for repair, where possible, or 
replacement is a very common term in this type of policy. Even if Mr F didnt get the policy 
document I dont think he was disadvantaged as he was unlikely to get such a policy that 
said anything different on that matter. So I think Assurant fairly relied on the policy term to 
require Mr F to return the phone to it for repair.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Assurant has told us it 
could agree a walk in repair with the phone manufacturer but only if certain eligibility was 
met. Thats based on its agreement with the phone manufacturer that the phone 
manufacturer only repairs screen damage and only for certain phone models at the agreed 
costs.
As the damage to Mr Fs phone was multiple cracks across the rear glass, which the phone 
manufacturers WAF confirms, his phone didnt meet the eligibility for a walk in repair with 
the phone manufacturer. So I think it was fair and reasonable for Assurant to tell Mr F that 
his only option was to return the phone to Assurant to repair.
I note that in one of Assurants final response letters it wrongly referred to Mr Fs phone 
being water damaged. But Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that Assurant used the 
correct damage to decide whether Mr Fs phone was eligible for a walk in repair with the 
phone manufacturer.
Assurant apologised as one of its representatives shouldnt have told Mr F that if he went to 
phone manufacturer for the repair it was likely hed be given a replacement phone instead. 
Assurant upheld Mr Fs complaint on that specific matter. But that doesnt affect that 
Assurant gave Mr F correct information that his phone damage wasnt eligible for a walk in 
repair by the phone manufacturer.
I understand why Mr F wanted to get his phone repaired before he went on his trip. But 
Assurant still acted within the policy terms and fairly and reasonably in telling Mr F he 
needed to return the phone to it for repair. Im not persuaded by Mr Fs suggestion that he 
potentially mitigated the situation by paying the phone manufacturer for the repair. Assurant 
gave no indication that if there was further damage to the phone while he was away that 
would invalidate the claim it had already accepted. And I dont make decisions based on 
what damage might have happened.
Mr F says he also didnt want Assurant to have his phone to repair because it told him the 
phone wouldnt be repaired with the phone manufacturers original parts and if it had to 
replace the phone it couldnt guarantee a like for like replacement.
The policy says:
Replacements
1. This is not 'new for old' insurance, and replacement device will come from fully 
refurbished stock (not brand new). Before we send any device to settle a claim, we 
carry out a comprehensive checking process to make sure they are in full working 
order. All devices will come with a 1-year warranty.
2. We will attempt to replace your phone with one of the same colour but we can't 
guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile phones.And
Repairs may be made using readily available parts, or we may provide refurbished 
products which may contain parts, which are of similar or equivalent specification, 
and which may include unbranded parts. This policy is provided in addition to any 
manufacturer's warranty that applies to your mobile phone ("applicable 
manufacturer's warranty"). Nothing in this policy is intended to affect your rights 
under the applicable manufacturer's warranty or your statutory rights
So Assurant gave Mr F correct information about what the policy covered. The above are 
very common terms in this type of policy.
Overall Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in telling Mr F he needed to return the phone to 
it for repair. It doesnt need to pay Mr F the cost he paid to phone manufacturer to have the 
phone repaired.
But Assurant did accept the claim and I agree with Mr Fs point that Assurant would have 
had to pay its approved repairer for the repair if he had returned the phone.
Im intending to decide that Assurant should pay Mr F the amount it would have paid to have 
the phone repaired if he had returned the phone to it for repair. In response to this 
provisional decision Assurant should tell me the amount it would have paid for the repair and 
give supporting evidence. Mr F will need to pay any applicable excess for the claim if he 
hasnt already done so. Assurant should add interest as Ive detailed below.
I think Assurant acted fairly and reasonably in not paying Mr F compensation. He was 
stressed by the situation but Assurant acted reasonably in telling him that it wouldnt pay for 
the repair by the phone manufacturer and it gave an appropriate apology for the wrong 
information Mr F was told.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Assurant said its engineers gave the repair cost for Mr Fs phone at £274.20 including VAT. 
We sent that information to Mr F as hed asked.
Mr F said he wanted Assurant to waive his policy excess, or pay the same in compensation, 
before deciding whether he would agree. He also wanted to know the full amount payable 
inclusive of interest.
Assurant wouldnt agree to waive the excess fee for the claim. It said it was fulfilling the 
claim as if Mr F had sent it the phone for repair so the excess would be deducted. We 
informed Mr F who said he was surprised by Assurants refusal given its poor service. And 
he was even more frustrated that its repair cost was only £94.80 less than what he paid for 
the repair when he had a lot of stress and inconvenience in complaining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im still intending to partly uphold the complaint. I accept the repair cost 
amount that Assurant gave me from its engineers without any further evidence as Im 
satisfied thats a reasonable cost.
I think Assurant has fairly said it wont waive the excess. I accept what Mr F says about 
having to complain to get to this point but I think Assurant had reasonably and clearly told 
him from the start of his claim that he needed to send the phone to it for repair. And if Mr F 
had done so then the repair cost to Assurant would have been £274.20 and he would have 
paid the excess. Under the policy Assurant only needs to pay the costs of a repair its 
instigated.
But Ive explained in my provisional findings why in these circumstances its fair and 
reasonable for Assurant to pay Mr F the amount it would have paid to have the phone 
repaired, plus interest. Assurant hasnt disagreed.
I still dont think I can fairly award Mr F compensation. In addition to the reasons Ive given in 
my provisional findings, I wouldnt generally award compensation only because a consumer 
had the stress and inconvenience of complaining and theres no reason for me to do so in 
this case. 
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings Assurant must put 
things right as follows. Its for Assurant to calculate the exact sum that it will pay Mr F.
Putting things right
Assurant must pay Mr F the amount it would have paid to have the phone repaired if he had 
returned the phone to it for repair, £274.20, less the excess, plus interest as detailed below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Mr F the £274.20 it would have paid for 
the repair of his phone if he had returned it to Assurant General Insurance Limited for repair, 
less any applicable unpaid excess. Interest* on the settlement amount should be added at 
8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement.
*If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give Mr F a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023. 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman