DRN-2031931
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) declined his claim for total 
permanent disablement (TPD) and cancelled his policy due to fraud.
What happened
In early 2015 Mr B took out a term assurance policy with critical illness cover though Aviva. 
The critical illness cover included TPD.
In late 2015 he found himself unable to work due to back pain caused by a condition called 
spondylolisthesis. And in 2016 2016 Mr B put in a claim under the TPD section of his policy. 
At the time Mr B had whats called own occupation TPD cover, which meant his claim would 
be assessed against his ability to do his particular job. But when investigating his claim Aviva 
felt Mr B had misrepresented his occupation when he initially applied for the policy  it said it 
wouldnt have given him own occupation TPD cover had it known what job Mr B had. 
Aviva amended Mr Bs policy to change the TPD cover from own occupation to work tasks 
 these are set physical tasks defined by Aviva in the policy. Mr B complained to our service 
about this decision at the time, but his complaint wasnt upheld.
 
In 2017 Mr B then submitted a further TPD claim under the work tasks definition. As a result 
of this claim, two further complaints were raised by Mr B and brought to our service. 
One related to Aviva requesting medical information Mr B felt wasnt relevant this was 
upheld. The other came when Aviva suggested Mr B had misrepresented his health when he 
applied for the policy. Aviva said that had it known more about Mr Bs health in 2015, it 
wouldnt have offered him TPD cover at all and so it removed this from his policy. But our 
service didnt think Mr B has misrepresented his health, so his complaint was upheld. 
In May 2019, an ombudsman asked Aviva to reconsider Mr Bs claim under the work tasks 
definition of TPD. 
Both Aviva and Mr B are familiar with the work tasks definition of TPD within his policy. So, I 
dont intend to repeat it in full here. To meet the definition, Mr B needs to be permanently 
unable to perform three of six tasks. In brief these tasks are:
1. Walking (more than 200 metres on a level surface).
2. Climbing (up a flight of 12 stairs and down again).
3. Lifting (a 2kg weight for 60 seconds).
4. Bending (bending or kneeling to touch the floor and standing back up).
5. Getting in and out of a car (the ability to get in and out of a standard saloon car).
6. Writing (writing legibly using a pen/pencil or type using a keyboard).
In response to the ombudsmans direction, Aviva spoke to Mr B who confirmed that he felt 
he met this definition. Aviva then arranged a functional capacity evaluation (FCE) to assess 
Mr Bs ability to perform these tasks. And after receiving this report, it then arranged an 
independent health assessment and covert surveillance. 
Based on the evidence gathered, Aviva felt Mr B had deliberately sought to exaggerate his 
symptoms and limitations with a view to obtaining benefits from this policy to which he was 
not entitled. Aviva felt this was a fraudulent misrepresentation. So, it rejected his claim, 
avoided the policy (cancelled it from the start) and kept all of the premiums he paid.
Mr B didnt think this was fair, so he complained. But Aviva didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr B then brought his concerns to our service. Our investigator looked into things and felt 
Aviva had acted reasonably in the circumstances. But Mr B didnt agree so the matters been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying Im really sorry to hear of Mr Bs poor health. 
In this decision, I wont be commenting on any of the complaints previously brought to our 
service, as these have already been addressed. I will only consider Avivas 2019 decision to 
decline this claim and avoid the policy for fraud. Although a number of issues have been 
raised in relation to this, this decision only addresses those I consider to be materially 
relevant. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before 
arriving at my decision. 
For an insurer to allege fraud by its policyholder is a very serious matter. It means that the
cancellation of the policy will be registered on an insurance database and the fraud may be
registered on a fraud database. Under the Insurance Act 2015, where a claim is false or 
exaggerated, insurers are entitled to deny the claim, cancel the policy and keep the 
premiums.
For that reason, Aviva has to show strong evidence that it is most likely that Mr B knowingly 
misrepresented his symptoms to try and meet the work tasks definition of TPD and make a 
successful claim that would otherwise not have been paid. 
Its worth noting that an insurer can cancel a policy on the grounds of fraud if it has sufficient 
evidence that part of the claim meets the fraud condition. And so, I dont intend to cover 
every aspect of Avivas concerns in this decision. 
Ive noted that Aviva is not disputing Mr Bs diagnosis which is clearly documented. Its how 
this illness impacts Mr B and what hes told Aviva about this which is disputed. 
It seems to me the key evidence Aviva relied on when concluding Mr B exaggerated his 
symptoms is the surveillance footage of Mr B, which was taken without his knowledge. In the 
surveillance footage Mr B can be seen doing various activities, including:
Bending forwards to fill and then pick up a jerry can from near floor level.
Bending to pick up something in his garden, seemingly from floor level.
Bending to reach items in his low-level trolley which were loaded into his car boot.
Lifting each end of a wooden framed swing set in his garden, to reposition it slightly.
Lifting multiple packs of tins when grocery shopping.
And Aviva has said this is different to what Mr B has reported previously in relation to his 
claim. Specifically, it highlighted:
The call Mr B made to Aviva on 28 May 2019. In this Mr B said he absolutely failed at 
least three of the activities outlined in the work tasks definition. He said his condition 
was the same from when he made his previous claim and things hadnt changed.
The symptoms Mr B reported as part of the 2019 FCE assessment.
The symptoms Mr B reported as part of the 2019 independent medical examination. The evidence Mr B provided previously in relation to his 2017 claim.
Im aware Mr B has raised concerns about the fact Aviva carried out surveillance  hes 
highlighted, for example, that this isnt regulated. But surveillance is a tool available to 
insurers when looking at claims of this nature. So, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva to use 
this, particularly where the findings of the FCE were unclear. And whilst the activities Mr B is 
seen performing arent directly comparable with the work tasks, the surveillance does 
provide objective evidence of his general capabilities overall and allows for a comparison 
with his reported limitations. Given this, I think its reasonable for Aviva to consider this 
footage when assessing Mr Bs capabilities. 
When considering evidence of this nature, I would allow for a slight degree of exaggeration, 
as can often occur in circumstances such as these. And consideration should be given as to 
whether this was simply a good day for the consumer, as it may be that their capabilities on 
other days are a lot lower. But where exaggeration becomes misrepresentation, the 
business is entitled to consider whether the claim is fraudulent.
 
So, when looking at this surveillance footage, Ive given careful consideration to how this 
compares with Mr Bs reported limitations and what he was capable of physically doing 
during his recent assessments. When comparing surveillance to reported limitations, its 
important that this evidence is relatively close in time to allow a more direct and fair 
comparison. In this case Im aware that Mr B was asked by Aviva to complete a new claim 
form in 2019, but he refused. Mr B told Aviva his symptoms were the same as reported in his 
2017 claim form and hadnt changed. So, for the purposes of this assessment, Im satisfied 
its reasonable to consider how Mr B described his symptoms in his 2017 claim form as well 
as looking at his 2019 assessments. 
Im aware Mr B has raised some concerns about the reliability of the conclusions made in 
the 2019 FCE. Id like to reassure Mr B that I dont intend to rely on the evaluators 
observations or conclusions about his symptoms here. But Im satisfied its fair to consider 
how Mr B reported his symptoms during the FCE and what Mr B was physically capable of 
doing during this assessment  as this evidence is independent of any assessment the 
evaluator made.
Its important to note that when deciding if Aviva has acted fairly here, its not necessary for 
me to consider if the evidence shows Mr B meets the work tasks definition of TPD. 
What matters is whether the evidence shows Mr B can perform activities that hes advised 
Aviva he cannot do in relation to his claim ie. does the footage show on balance that Mr B 
falsely misrepresented his symptoms? 
And having reviewed the evidence, I do think there are points where Mr Bs actions on the 
footage are markedly different from the capabilities reported to Aviva previously.
Im aware Mr B has given explanations in relation to specific differences previously 
highlighted by Aviva and our investigator. For example, Mr B is seen lifting two jerrycans of 
fuel and Mr B has observed that Aviva and our investigator have presumed these were full  
something that isnt actually shown on the footage. And I agree you cant see this on the 
footage. But on balance, it would seem to me that at least one of these was full because 
Mr B can be seen spending nearly two minutes filling it up. More persuasively, Ive noted that 
there are several other examples of Mr B lifting items within this footage. Mr B can be seen 
lifting each side of a wooden framed swing set in turn in order to move its position in his 
garden. And when shopping, he can be seen lifting both a four-tin pack of tomatoes into the 
trolley and what seems to be a larger 8/12-tin pack out of the trolley into the boot of the car. Yet Mr B had reported in his 2017 claim form that he was unable to lift a 2kg weight for 60 
seconds and during the 2019 FCE he was unable to do this task. In his 2019 medical 
assessment he reported that he finds it very difficult to lift. And as part of the 2019 FCE 
assessment he reported being unable to wash up heavy pans and said he could only lift 
very light weights. None of the items I have mentioned above could reasonably be said to 
be a very light weight.
I would also make similar observations about the extent to which Mr B can be seen bending. 
In his 2017 claim form Mr B said he was unable to bend to touch the floor and straighten up 
again. In his 2019 FCE assessment Mr B said hes unable to bend to floor level due to the 
pain this would cause. He reported being unable to do things like hoovering the house or 
making the bed due to the stooping required. Mr B said hes able to go grocery shopping for 
light items using a high-level trolley. But in the footage, he can be seen using a low-level 
trolley and removing a bag from the bottom of it at one point. And there are two points in the 
footage where Mr B is seen to reach down to near floor level to pick something up  the jerry 
cans, and when in the garden. Once again, Im aware Mr B has raised some concerns about 
the conclusions drawn here. And I agree with Mr B that the jerry cans are not on the floor  
but theyre very close to being so. And in my view theyre lifted quickly by him with apparent 
ease. More persuasively, whilst plants do obscure Mr B slightly, Im satisfied after watching 
the footage in the garden, that Avivas conclusion that Mr B is capable of picking things up 
off the floor is fair.
Given this, Im satisfied that Mr Bs capabilities on the footage, when he is not aware hes 
being observed, are greater than what he reported to Aviva. And I dont find Mr Bs 
explanations for this persuasive here. Given these differences are linked to capabilities 
central to Mr Bs TPD claim, I think Avivas conclusion that Mr B falsely misrepresented 
these capabilities in order to try to claim successfully is fair.
 
Im aware Mr B has raised concerns over only being able to view an edited version of the 
surveillance footage  hes suggested this shows an incomplete and biased picture. Id like 
to reassure Mr B that Ive considered the possibility this footage does not include some of 
the points at which he struggled or needed help. But Mr B didnt tell Aviva that these 
capabilities were dependent on his pain and that he was sometimes able to do these things. 
Whilst Mr B said his pain was variable, he did not describe these limitations as varying. 
He said he couldnt do these things at all or that he required help to do so. So, Im afraid it 
doesnt matter if the picture here is incomplete. This footage shows Mr B doing daily 
activities he told Aviva he couldnt do. 
Given this, and for all the reasons explained above, I dont think Aviva has acted 
unreasonably in declining Mr Bs claim and avoiding his policy.
Im aware Mr B has disclosed some further information in relation to his health and wellbeing 
to our service. He has done so in confidence and so I wont repeat the details here. Id like to 
reassure Mr B Ive considered this. But having done so, Ive seen nothing to indicate this is 
relevant to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Jade CunninghamOmbudsman