DRN-2025097
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Capital One (Europe) plc hasnt closed his account, although he says
he asked it to. Instead, it defaulted his debt which affected his credit file.
What happened
Mr H told us he took out a Capital One card to improve his credit rating. He said he was
using the card and paying off the balance each month. Once his credit rating had improved,
he told us he closed the card. Later he got a letter saying there was an outstanding balance. 
He apologised and paid that off too. But then he applied for a mortgage, and found out his 
credit card hadnt been closed. Instead, a payment of £14 had been made from the card. 
With fees and interest, that had gone up to £140. His account was then defaulted. He said 
this was having a serious impact on his ability to borrow to buy a house.
Mr H told us hed complained to Capital One about this, and it said it could see hed called in
January then again in July, but it didnt have call recordings for those calls. He was initially
told Capital One would uphold his complaint, but then it said hed have to pay the debt. Mr H 
said he would pay, but this was now on his credit record, and he didnt think it was fair.
Capital One said Mr H had made a payment of £17.93 on 24 July (although in one letter it 
refers to August, this seems to be a typo). But he still owed £80.40 at that time. The call 
notes from the time said Mr H was going to make a payment for the remaining balance, and
then close the account. But Capital One never got that payment. It sent him correspondence 
about the account, including a notice of default which issued on 9 January 2019.
Capital One confirmed that his account was now settled, with a zero balance. But it didnt
think it had done anything wrong, so it wouldnt remove the default.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt been able to
find any evidence that Mr H contacted Capital One in January 2018 to close his account.
The call notes from Mr Hs call to Capital One in July 2018 show Mr H made a payment, and
suggest Mr H was going to make another payment to clear the remaining balance. Our
investigator didnt think, on the evidence hed seen, that he could decide Mr H was told that
the amount hed paid would clear the remaining balance.
Capital One had shown our service that it wrote to Mr H after this. Our investigator was
satisfied that these letters were correctly addressed and sent to Mr H. He was living at this
address at the time. Our investigator said he wouldnt ask Capital One to remove the default
from Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H disagreed. He said hed cleared the balance, and cancelled the credit card, on a call 
with Capital One. Then a credit reference agency had tried to take a payment. Capital One
had reopened the card, and the credit reference agency kept taking payments. Mr H said
that months later he was issued with a late payment letter. He said he complained, cleared
the balance again, and cancelled the card. He also complained to the credit reference
agency that had been charging him. Mr H said that years later, he applied for a mortgage, to
find a default on his credit file. And Capital One had conveniently lost the relevant calls. Mr H 
wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a
final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
I know that Capital One doesnt have the relevant call recordings now. Our service 
does sometimes have to make decisions without being able to listen to the relevant 
calls. That means I need to look closely at the evidence we do have, to decide whats 
most likely to have happened in this case.
Mr H says he cleared his card balance on a call, which happened around January 
2018. He says he closed the account at the same time. He also told us that before 
this, hed been paying the account off in full each month.
In January 2018, Mr Hs account balance of £137.22 was paid off in full, on the 5th. 
This shows on his statement as a direct debit. It doesnt appear to have been a card 
payment. On the same day, his card was billed £14.99 by a credit reference agency.
There are no call notes suggesting Mr H rang Capital One to close his card then.
Because there are no call notes saying that Mr H called to close his card in or around 
this time, and because Mr H told us he cleared his balance on the phone, but his 
statement shows that this was done by direct debit, I dont think its likely that Mr H 
rang Capital One at this time, and asked to close his account.
Mr Hs card wasnt used after this, aside from the monthly charge for £14.99 made by 
the credit reference agency. The amount of £14.99 was paid in full, by direct debit 
payments, in February, March, April and May 2018. Capital One has sent us 
statements with Mr Hs address, which show these debits and credits to his account. 
So I think that Mr H should have known that his account was still open at this time.
Capital One wrote to Mr H in late May 2018, to say his direct debit was cancelled. No 
payment was made for June, and Mr H started to incur fees on the account.
Mr H says that he rang Capital One again around this time, and cleared the card 
balance. His statements, and the call notes from the time, show he paid a little less 
than £18. Mr H says he again cancelled the card, on this call.
Capital Ones call notes say that Mr H made a payment over the phone on 24 July, 
and that he also promised then to pay the remaining balance. Those notes also say 
Mr H told Capital One hed forgotten about the account.
The statements Capital One was sending Mr H made clear that a payment of £18 
wouldnt be enough to clear this account. And Capital One recorded a promise to pay 
the outstanding balance from Mr H as part of its call notes in July. So I dont think its 
likely that Capital One made a mistake, and told Mr H that his account balance would 
be cleared by the payment he made, when he spoke to it in July 2018.
Mr H didnt make a further payment. After 24 July 2018, there are no further 
payments credited to his account that year, or well into the next year. Capital One 
wrote to Mr H a number of times about this. In February 2019, the account defaulted.
Considering the evidence I do have, I think its more likely than not that Mr H didnt 
ring Capital One twice trying to close his account. And I think Capital One did everything I would expect it to do, to alert Mr H to the default before it happened. So I 
dont think that Capital One has to remove this default now.
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr A replied to ask a question. Capital One said it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H wanted me to be more objective, and evidence why Id made assumptions that he 
didnt call to clear and cancel this card twice. He felt the burden of proof was on him. 
I dont think thats right. As I explained in my provisional decision, when call records arent 
available, I look at the evidence we do have, to consider whats most likely to have 
happened. In this case, I noted that the call notes didnt support what Mr H said happened. 
At the time Mr H says he made his first call to cancel his card, he said he paid the balance 
off over the phone, but payment records show it was cleared by a direct debit payment. At 
the time Mr H said he made the second call to cancel his card, he said he paid off the 
balance in full, but the call records and statements sent to Mr H show he paid a little less 
than £18. Those statements also showed this wasnt enough to clear the card. 
Ive looked at the evidence we do have. That includes documents which were sent to Mr H 
after he says he made his calls. And that evidence isnt consistent with what Mr H says 
happened. Thats why I think its more likely than not that he didnt call Capital One, on these 
two occasions, and ask to cancel his card.
I know Mr H will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman