DRN-3906124
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that on 26 July 2022 he was led to believe by Nationwide Building 
Society that he would be able to take out a short-term mortgage to buy another property. It 
wasnt until 30 July 2022 that Nationwide explained that it didnt offer short-term lending.
To settle the complaint, Mr S wants Nationwide to cover his expenses, which he estimates to 
be at least £7,600. Mr S also wants us to direct mainstream lenders to offer short-term 
bridging finance for people in his situation, and for Nationwide to be penalised for not 
responding to his complaint within eight weeks.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr S being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr S owned a property free of mortgage. He wanted to move elsewhere and buy another 
property but, due to the legal system in the location he was moving to, he needed to have 
funds already in place.  His solicitor advised him that the way to do this was to release equity 
from his current property to fund the purchase, as a second home. On 26 July 2022 Mr S 
spoke to Nationwide when he was told (incorrectly) that hed be able to take out a mortgage 
for this purpose. Mr S was told to call back on 30 July 2022 when he had all his 
documentation together and the call centre would begin the application.
But when Mr S called back he was told that this would amount to short-term lending, which 
Nationwide wasnt able to offer. As a result, Mr S wasnt able to proceed with his application 
for a mortgage with Nationwide.
Mr S said he then verified this with other lenders, and came to understand that no 
mainstream lenders had this type of short-term product on the market for this eventuality. 
Mr S said he found this totally unacceptable especially as Nationwide already said theyd 
consider it.
Following this, Mr S looked into specialist short-term lending and found this to be 
prohibitively expensive. As a result, he moved into rented accommodation in order to fix up 
and sell his house. Mr S has told us that this cost him at least £7,600 in rent and deposit, 
and, whilst he said it was cheaper than bridging finance, it was still a major outlay. 
Mr S also says that, because of the delays as a result of having to renovate his house, hes 
been caught up in the financial fallout from the mini-Budget of September 2022, which has 
caused his house to lose value. Mr S says this could be a very significant 5 figure sum. 
Mr S wants Nationwide to compensate him for his expenses and financial losses.
Mr S says that he is being discriminated against for being truthful. He says I could easily 
have not said I was going to sell my property and taken out a 10-year mortgage for a second 
home.
Nationwide acknowledged Mr S had been given incorrect information during the call on 
26 July 2022 and paid him compensation of £100. Mr S wasnt happy with this and brought 
his complaint to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think 
Nationwide needed to do anything more. She was satisfied the £100 already paid by 
Nationwide was fair and reasonable for the mistake that had been made. The investigator 
explained that Nationwide had no suitable products for Mr Ss circumstances.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He said, in summary, that the system is stacked against the consumer, and that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service only looks at financial institutes own policies, not the 
needs of consumers. Mr S wanted to know who he needed to speak to in order to ensure 
that the financial services industry offers products that are fit for his needs.
Mr S says that, because nobody asked him what the mortgage term would be, and he could 
have lied and said that he would pay the mortgage back at any time, in five or ten years 
time. But Nationwide just turned him down and thats not nice. 
Because the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. We have no power to tell lenders what products they should offer to 
customers. Given this, whilst Ive noted the wider questions Mr S has raised about financial 
services businesses, those are matters for the FCA, not our service. 
Nationwide doesnt offer short-term lending to enable a customer to raise funds on a 
property they already own to buy another and then sell the first property. That is called 
bridging finance, and, as Mr S has learned, this type of product is not offered by mainstream 
mortgage lenders. I dont have any power to tell Nationwide (or any other mainstream 
lender) to offer bridging loans to customers, when this doesnt form part of its business 
model.
Nationwide does offer second property mortgages but only for the following types of 
property purchase:
holiday homes;
second homes due to work location (known as a pied a terre, i.e. where the borrower 
lives in the second property during the work week but returns to the main residence at 
weekends);
accommodation for wholly dependent relatives;
a new main residence where the applicant wishes to let their existing property rather 
than sell it.
None of those situations applies to Mr Ss circumstances, as he wanted to take out a 
mortgage on his existing property buy a second property to be his new main residence and sell his existing property. So even if the application had been started, Nationwide could not 
have offered Mr S a mortgage, because the purpose for which he was buying the second 
property wouldnt have met lending criteria in any event.
Nationwide has acknowledged it made a mistake in telling Mr S on 26 July 2022 that it could 
offer him short-term lending so he could mortgage his existing home, buy another and then 
sell his original property. That error was corrected four days later.
Where a mistake has been made, I have to try to put the consumer back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. In this case, if the mistake hadnt been 
made, Mr S would have been told on 26 July 2022 that Nationwide wouldnt be able to offer 
him a mortgage. He didnt find this out until 30 July 2022, when he was disappointed to learn 
that Nationwide couldnt help him. So for four days that Mr S mistakenly believed he could 
have a Nationwide mortgage, when in reality he could never have had one for the purpose 
he wanted. I think the £100 paid by Nationwide for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
this error over the four-day period before Mr S found out that he couldnt have this type of 
loan is fair and reasonable.
Mr S has raised some further issues. He said that he has been discriminated against  both 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service and by Nationwide  because he was honest in saying 
that he would be selling his existing home. Mr S has suggested that this might have been in 
five or ten years time, but nobody asked him. However, because he was honest in 
explaining to Nationwide that he intended to pay back the mortgage when his existing 
property sold, he is being discriminated against.
Mr S is suggesting that dishonest customers are treated better by financial institutions than 
honest ones. Its a reasonable expectation for all mortgage lenders that customers applying 
for mortgages will be honest. I am glad to note that Mr S was honest when he explained his 
intentions when discussing his mortgage requirements with Nationwide. If customers provide 
false information to mortgage lenders, the consequences can be serious, ranging from fraud 
markers placed against the customers name to the ultimate sanction of criminal prosecution. 
The Equality Act 2010 does not protect consumers who are dishonest. It would be against 
public policy if dishonesty was a protected characteristic under the Equality Act. So whilst I 
acknowledge Mr Ss strength of feeling that he has been hard done by because Nationwide 
couldnt offer him a mortgage, I am satisfied he has not been discriminated against on the 
basis of being truthful about his intention to sell the property in the short term.
Overall Im satisfied that the £100 paid by Nationwide for distress and inconvenience is fair 
and reasonable and Im not ordering Nationwide to do anything else. I appreciate Mr S 
incurred expenses because he said he had to move into rented accommodation while he 
was selling his house. But as Mr S has confirmed, the cost of this was far less than the cost 
of bridging finance, so he has taken steps to mitigate his position and minimise the expense 
as far as possible.
Mr S has also complained that Nationwide didnt respond to his complaint within eight 
weeks. However, complaints about complaint-handling arent covered by our rules, so whilst 
I acknowledge Mr S is unhappy about the way Nationwide dealt with his complaint, its not 
something I have any power to consider or comment on.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S was hoping for. Mr S has already been very clear that he 
doesnt believe the Financial Ombudsman Service to be fit for purpose or that it will be able 
to provide him with the resolution he wants. Mr S doesnt have to accept my decision, and if 
he doesnt it wont be legally-binding and hell be free to pursue his grievances against Nationwide in court, should he wish to do so. Mr S might want to take legal advice if he is 
considering taking the matter any further through the courts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman