DRN-3564849
The complaint
Mr M complained about the amount of compensation which Nationwide Building Society paid 
him.
What happened
In 2019, Nationwide closed Mr Ms account following suspect activity on the account. It also 
registered a CIFAS marker against Mr Ms name. CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency, which 
has a large database on which information is recorded to protect financial businesses and 
their customers against fraud. 
By 2021, Mr M was banking with another organisation, but on 1 July that bank closed Mr Ms 
account. He said that bank told him verbally that the reason was a CIFAS marker against 
him. He found out that Nationwide had registered a CIFAS entry against his name, and 
complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide reviewed what had happened, and in its final response on 2 August, it told Mr M 
that it had taken its 2019 decision without considering the complete picture. So it removed 
the CIFAS marker and said it would now be willing to offer Nationwide services again. Mr M 
opened Nationwide accounts on 12 August 2021.
Nationwide also said that as a further apology it would pay Mr M £125 compensation for the 
impact this would have had on him. It paid this to one of his new accounts. It said it could 
consider further compensation if Mr M provided evidence. It asked for:
- Evidence that the other banks decision to close Mr Ms account had been made 
solely because of the CIFAS marker recorded by Nationwide;
- Evidence that Mr M had tried to open accounts and had been rejected; and 
- Information about exactly when the other banks closure had happened and any 
other relevant details;
- Evidence of impact in any other way as a result of Nationwides actions.
Mr M didnt send reply to Nationwide with evidence. He contacted this service. He said he 
hadnt been able to reply to Nationwide, because the other bank hadnt been willing to 
confirm that the sole reason it had closed his account was Nationwides CIFAS marker. He 
said hed been without any banking facilities between 1 July and 12 August 2021, which he 
said had meant:
- hed had to arrange for his salary to be paid temporarily into his mothers account, 
causing doubt on his credibility;
- hed then had to arrange for his mother to pay his direct debits, and to go to the bank 
at lunchtime to withdraw cash for him;
- as he didnt have a debit card, hed had to carry large amounts of cash, which made 
him feel vulnerable, so hed refused some social invitations;
- his car payment company had said his mother could make one payment on his 
behalf but no more, so hed been afraid his car would be possessed, affecting his 
credit score;
- although his mother had been supportive, hed felt lonely and isolated;
- hed lacked motivation at work so the quality of his work had been affected;
- it had caused him a great deal of stress, and had inconvenienced and stressed his 
mother too.
Mr M said he wanted an apology, and confirmation that the CIFAS marker had been 
removed and his credit file hadnt been affected. He wanted compensation for the trouble 
and upset hed suffered when hed been without any banking facilities for six weeks between 
1 July and 12 August 2021.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint for more than Nationwide had already done. 
She said that while the marker had been on Mr Ms record for two years, the impact had only 
been for six weeks. She considered £125 compensation was fair.
Mr M didnt agree. He said he was extremely disappointed and being without banking 
facilities for six weeks had caused untold problems. He said that £125 equated to £20.83 a 
week, which was an utter insult. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Nationwide agreed that its 2019 decision had been flawed, this decision doesnt consider 
whether or not the CIFAS marker should have been recorded. It relates just to what 
Nationwide should do to put things right. Mr M has also complained about the bank which 
closed his accounts in 2021, but theres a separate decision about that. This decision just 
relates to Nationwide. 
Nationwide confirmed that it removed the CIFAS marker, and it apologised. It also says it 
didnt record any adverse credit information related to the CIFAS issue in 2019. So the sole 
issue for me to consider is whether £125 compensation which Nationwide paid Mr M was fair 
and reasonable.
The CIFAS marker was recorded against Mr M for two years, but Mr M only suffered an 
impact for the six weeks between 1 July 2021 when another bank closed his account, and 12 
August 2021 when he opened three new Nationwide current accounts. During this period he 
didnt have access to banking facilities. Ive set out above what Mr M said about the impact 
on him, and Ive considered all the points he made. I recognise that there was inconvenience 
during that period. But Mr M did have some access to banking through his mothers 
willingness to help, and hes said how supportive she was. Using financial services wont 
always be free from stress, and I consider that, in all the circumstances of this case, 
Nationwides payment of £125 compensation was fair and reasonable. Its already paid this, 
so I dont require Nationwide to do more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman