DRN-1555970
The complaint
Mrs A complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
asked her to pay to refurbish a car she handed back at the end of a lease agreement.
 
What happened
In May 2017 Mrs A entered a two-year lease for a new car with MBFS and, at the end of that 
period, she handed the car back. Mrs A says that before returning the car she used the 
Self- Assessment app to identify whether she would face any charges over the condition of 
the car. She says the app stated the damage was acceptable.
Mrs A also says that when she returned the car to the dealership it also said that the 
damage was very minimal, but that she would probably have to pay for the damage to one of 
the alloys. Mrs A says she was expecting to be invoiced around £80 by MBFS.
Mrs A then received an invoice for £425 from MBFS as it said unacceptable damage had 
been found on the cars front bumper, front wing and one of the alloys. Mrs A complained to 
MBFS about the charges.
MBFS didnt uphold Mrs As complaint. It said the self-assessment app was designed to 
identify potential damage but that it was also clear that the car would be the subject of an 
inspection when returned. MBFS said it had reviewed the inspection report and was satisfied 
that the damage to the bumper, front wing and alloy were all above fair wear and tear. And 
that Mrs A had signed the inspection report detailing the items of damage found on the car. It 
said the charges were fair.
Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend that Mrs As complaint 
should be upheld. She said that MBFS had acted fairly in applying the charges to the 
damage found on the car when Mrs A handed it back.
Our investigator said that under the terms and conditions of the agreement Mrs A was liable 
for any damage found on the car that was outside of fair wear and tear. And, applying the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associations (BVRLA) guidelines to the damage 
documented on the car, it was beyond what would be accepted as fair wear and tear. These 
guidelines set the industry standard as to what is, and is not, considered to be fair wear and 
tear.
Our investigator said that the online assessment wasnt definitive and MBFS couldnt be held 
responsible for any views expressed by the dealership. It was always clear that the car 
would be subject to an inspection when returned. 
Mrs A disagreed with out investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the lease agreement it sets out that the consumer must keep the car in good 
repair and condition, and that they will be responsible for paying compensation to MBFS for 
any loss arising from their use of the vehicle. So, I think its clear that if the car is damaged 
beyond what would be acceptable as fair wear and tear then the person leasing the car will 
be responsible for paying for that damage.
The lease is also clear that, when the car is handed back, it will be the subject of a Vehicle 
Return Inspection so that the condition of the car can be assessed. Both the lease and the 
Vehicle Returns Standard (which was a document sent to Mrs A before she returned the 
car) set out in detail as to what wear and tear is, and is not, acceptable. For instance, chips 
to the paintwork that dont penetrate the top coat of paint will be acceptable. I think Mrs A 
had been given sufficient notice of how the inspection would be conducted and how MBFS 
would be appraising the condition of the car.
I appreciate Mrs A feels strongly that the self-assessment she carried out on the car 
indicated there would be no charges for the damage to the car, but this app isnt designed to 
provide a definitive answer, just an indication whether charges may arise. I dont think its 
reasonable to rely on the results it produces as it would always be dependent on what  
information was inputted into the app. I think its fair to presume Mrs A wasnt familiar with 
the BVRLA guidelines.
Im also aware that the dealership told Mrs A that only the damage to the alloy would be 
chargeable, but I cant reasonably hold MBFS responsible for any comments made by the 
dealer. I also dont know if their knowledge and experience was the same as the person who 
inspected the car when it was handed back.
A report on the condition of the car was prepared, which included photos of the damage 
found. Ive seen that Mrs A signed the report and she hasnt disputed that the damage to the 
alloy would be chargeable. I also dont think she disagreed that there was damage to the 
bumper and front wing but says this was minimal and so should be considered fair wear and 
tear.
The industry standard as to whether damage found on a vehicle returned at the end of a 
financial agreement is acceptable or not is set by the BVRLA guidelines. These guidelines 
acknowledge that the use of a vehicle will inevitably result in wear and tear but provide a 
consistent approach as to the assessment of what is fair wear and tear. When looking at the 
condition report of the car handed back by Mrs A Ive also looked at these guidelines.
Looking at the photos I agree the damage to the alloy is outside fair wear and tear and so its 
reasonable that Mrs A is charged £85 for the required repair and refinish.
I think the damage to the bumper is shown clearly in the photo and its a scratch that has 
gone through the top coat and the metal is showing. Under the BVRLA guidelines this is not 
acceptable as fair wear and tear. Im satisfied that the bumper will require repairing and 
refinishing and the £130 charge to Mrs A is reasonable. 
There are scratches to the paintwork of the front wing and looking at the BVRLA guidelines 
Ive seen that if a scratch doesnt expose the primer or bare metal then it is acceptable so 
long as it doesnt exceed 25mm in length. Unfortunately, here the scratches do exceed 
25mm and so I cant reasonably say that this charge is unfair.
So, for the reasons given Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
   My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman