DRN-3723836
The complaint
Mr M complains about how AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) handled his cancellation and proof 
of no claims discount on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M bought a motor insurance policy from AXA in May 2022 to cover his car. 
He provided proof of his 15 years No Claims Discount (NCD) to AXA, which AXA confirmed 
itd accepted even though it was dated about a month older than it would normally accept.
About a week later, Mr M contacted AXA and asked it whether he would be issued a new 
proof of NCD if he cancelled his policy. He told AXA he would take out policies for a few 
days and then cancel them. Hed often then receive a new proof of NCD in his own name 
and hed use that to keep his own NCD live.
AXA looked into Mr Ms request. It said it wasnt willing to send Mr M a proof of NCD 
because he hadnt been insured with it for a full year. It looked back in its records and it 
could see Mr M had done this before. AXA said it believed Mr M was misusing his NCD by 
using an annual policy with AXA simply to get a proof of NCD in his own name. It told him it 
would cancel his policy in seven days.
Mr M cancelled his policy before the seven days expired. Mr M was unhappy and he 
complained to AXA.
AXA said itd made an error when itd accepted Mr Ms NCD, and it paid him £50. 
It also confirmed that it wouldnt issue Mr M with an NCD document because what Mr M was 
doing could be seen as fraud.
Mr M remained unhappy and he brought his complaint to this service. He asks that AXA 
recognise his 15 years NCD.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. He said he thought AXA 
had acted fairly and reasonably because Mr Ms intention was to take out the policy 
specifically to cancel it. He hadnt kept his policy for the full year, so he didnt think AXA had 
any obligation to send him a new proof of NCD.
Mr M didnt agree with the view. He asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
NCD is a discount offered by insurers which reflects a good driving history. Its issued to a 
particular driver, and insurers like AXA often allow a gap in that history of up to 24 months 
if, for example, the driver doesnt hold a policy in their name for a short time. NCD is 
commonly issued in completed years of insurance.
Ive listened carefully to Mr Ms calls to AXA and read the evidence both parties have 
provided. Its very clear to me that Mr M contacted AXA to take out a policy for a very short 
time, specifically so he could cancel it and be issued with a new proof of NCD document. He 
states this several times to AXA, and I understand he repeated this to our investigator.
Ive listened to AXAs staff mention that Mr M had carried out this action before, going back 
several years. I dont think its fair of Mr M to have done this. He is taking out a policy, for 
which AXA will incur administration and handling costs, and then cancel quickly afterwards 
which would incur even more costs for AXA. Mr M is doing this to keep his own NCD live, so 
he can later take out a policy in his own name and benefit from a substantial discount, 
despite the fact that he hasnt held a policy in his own name for a complete year.
I dont think this is fair. Mr M has found a way of potentially benefiting himself with a discount 
at AXAs expense. So I dont find it unreasonable for AXA to stop him doing so when it 
discovered what was happening.
Mr M has also said he holds another type of motor insurance called a motor traders policy. 
He says hes been driving under one of these policies for eight years without any claims. He 
says he thinks AXA should take this into account when considering his own personal NCD. 
AXAs policy wording says:
motor trade proof of no claims discount or bonus is not acceptable.
I think its clear from this that AXA wont recognise Mr Ms NCD from his motor traders 
policy, so I cant say its acted unfairly by not considering it.
In correspondence with this service, our investigator asked Mr M why hed called AXA to ask 
for his NCD certificate and cancelled the policy. Mr M replied Because I wanted to change 
my car which was diesel and I wanted to add another car which is petrol. 
In the evidence that I have listened to, Mr M doesnt mention this. It seems clear that he 
simply wants to get his proof of NCD when he cancels his policy, and I dont find his further 
assertions reliable. 
Its my decision that AXA have acted fairly and reasonably in notifying Mr M that it was 
cancelling his policy with seven days notice, and not issuing him with a No Claims Discount 
notice.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman