DRN-4200562
The complaint
Mr W complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very removed a payment 
plan without telling him. Hes also unhappy with the negative markers placed on his credit file 
and the level of customer service hes received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 June 2023. I explained I was minded to uphold Mr Ws 
complaint because I didnt think Shop Direct had done enough to keep him informed about 
his account. I felt this miscommunication resulted in confusion and made it more difficult for 
Mr W to manage his account effectively. I asked Shop Direct to remove negative markers 
from Mr Ws credit file, refund a fee, and pay compensation. Both parties had until 
20 June 2023 to provide any additional points and/or evidence they wanted me to consider.
Both Shop Direct and Mr W accepted my provisional decision, so the outcome has remained 
the same. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint for these reasons:
In June 2022, Mr W and Shop Direct agreed a payment plan in which he was to pay 
£67.91 for 27 months. And following the final decision in a previous complaint, the 
refund of interest awarded by our Service brought Mr Ws account up to date  and 
this is why the payment plan came to an end. However, having reviewed the 
information provided to us I cant see that the payment plan coming to an end was 
proactively communicated to Mr W. So, I can understand why he was confused and 
concerned to receive his statement in September 2022 saying he had to make a 
minimum payment of £90.23. I can understand why Shop Direct ended the payment 
plan. However, I consider they should have considered the matter pragmatically 
given the purpose of payment plans, and the difference between what Mr W had 
previously agreed to pay and the amount he was being asked to pay for the minimum 
payment.
Matters became more confusing after Mr W tried to set up another payment plan in 
October 2022. Following a call with Shop Direct, he believed theyd agreed an 
arrangement of £19.51 a month for 37 months. However, it has only recently become 
apparent that Shop Direct couldnt set up a plan that lasted more than three months 
unless an income and expenditure was completed. Thats why Mr Ws plan came to 
an end in January 2023, and he was told his account was in arrears. This isnt the 
level of service Id expect a customer to receive  especially one who has been in 
frequent contact with Shop Direct to discuss ways in which he could pay what he 
owed. The evidence Ive seen persuades me that Mr W was eager to co-operate with 
Shop Direct. And had Shop Direct not made the mistakes theyve now admitted to, 
I consider this matter could have been resolved a lot sooner and in a way that may 
not have irrevocably broken Mr Ws trust in them.
It has been very disappointing to see Shop Direct only realised their mistake with the 
October 2022 payment plan, after Mr W asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Therefore, I believe Mr Ws testimony when he described the frustration and 
confusion hes experienced since September 2022 when trying to find out what was 
happening with his account, and why. Mr Ws testimony has been consistent, and its 
supported by the contact notes provided by Shop Direct.
As mentioned above, I consider Shop Directs mistakes made it confusing for Mr W, 
and in turn difficult for him to understand what he needed to pay, and when. Had their 
communication been accurate and clearer, I think its unlikely there would have been 
issues with his payments for September 2022 and January 2023. Shop Direct has 
said it has already taken steps to remove these markers from Mr Ws credit file, and 
I consider thats fair in the circumstances.
Had Shop Direct managed Mr Ws account correctly in the first instance, or at least 
properly looked into his concerns I consider the £12 debt collection fee added to 
Mr Ws account could have been avoided. I say this because Im satisfied Mr W has 
demonstrated he was trying to avoid additional charges and a negative impact to his 
credit file. Therefore, I think this amount should be refunded.
Mr W has explained hes found this matter very stressful. Hes said its had an impact 
on him as he had to borrow money from his mother who was very unwell, and its put 
a strain on his relationship with his partner. Thats because shes had to lend him 
money and communicated with Shop Direct on his behalf because he works 
unsociable hours. Mr W has also gone on to explain its caused him to worry about 
his business. Its clear Mr W has been through a difficult time, and I do think that 
warrants an award  particularly given this issue has resulted after a previous 
complaint, meaning Mr W was more sensitive to the mistakes complained about. 
Because of this, I consider an award of £300 to fairly reflect what Mr W has been 
through. I have taken on board what Mr W has said about having finance for a van be 
declined. However, Ive not seen enough to persuade me Shop Directs mistakes are 
the sole reason for this happening. Thats because Ive also had to place weight on 
the fact Mr W asked for payment plans to make it easier to repay what he owed 
Shop Direct. So, I cant safely conclude other factors didnt impact his ability to get 
credit elsewhere.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ws complaint about Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited trading as very.
To put things right, Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very should:
Remove the negative markers placed on Mr Ws credit file for the months 
September 2022 and January 2023.Refund the £12 debt collection fee applied to Mr Ws account in February 2023.
Pay Mr W £300 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result of the customer service hes received.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman