DRN-4301113
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as R complains that Lloyds Bank Plc failed to prevent a 
scam which R fell victim to, and then refused to reimburse the loss they incurred as a result.
For avoidance of doubt, this complaint is solely about Lloyds as the recipients bank.
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, in January 2022, a scammer intercepted an existing email thread between R and its 
supplier and provided R with an invoice with amended bank details. Before making the 
payment, which was about £53,000, R noticed the change in the bank details and attempted 
to call the supplier twice to confirm the change, but they did not answer. 
The next day the scammer emailed pursuing R for payment. R replied (without realising that 
it was the scammer) asking them to confirm the new bank details, which they did. R 
proceeded to set up the payment using the account details provided on the invoice. During 
the payment process R was presented with a no match Confirmation of Payee (CoP) 
message. R tried to make the payment again and again received a no match warning. R 
then emailed the supplier asking for confirmation of the recipients account name. The 
scammer responded by providing a completely different name. This time the payment went 
through. 
The scam came to light two days later when Rs supplier advised R of non-payment. R 
reported it to their bank (part of Lloyds Banking group) who in turn commenced an 
investigation. Unfortunately, by that time only about £130 remained in the recipients 
account. Lloyds however were able to retrieve a further sum of about £17,000 from third 
party accounts. So, the net loss to R is about £37,000. Lloyds did not agree that it was at 
fault. It said that the bank completed full due diligence when the recipients account was 
opened and did not have any concerns. In addition, the bank had no concern about the 
account activity. It also said that it acted swiftly upon being advised of the scam and 
managed to recover about £17,000.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
They said, in summary:
Lloyds did not provide a copy of the account opening documents, so it cannot be said 
with certainty that it opened the account appropriately or met its regulatory obligations.
In any case, the incoming payment from R and the payments that swiftly went out of the 
account were unusual to the normal account activity and as such ought to have 
prompted Lloyds to look into what was going on. Had the bank done so and questioned 
its customer about the nature of the transactions, the scam would most likely have come 
to light and that in turn would have prevented the financial loss to R. So, it is fair that 
Lloyds refunds the loss.
However, there was some contributory negligence on part of R. They did try to call their 
supplier to confirm the change in bank details and were not able to contact them on the 
first day. But when the scammer chased them for payment, they sought confirmation of 
the change of account details via email only. Further, when they initially set up the 
payment, a CoP mismatch message was presented twice. When they queried this via 
email, the scammer gave an altogether different name. That name indicated a line of 
business (cleaning services) which was too remote to the suppliers line of business 
which was a manufacturer of industrial equipments (and whom R said had been their 
supplier for many years). 
All of this taken together ought to have prompted steps to have been taken to speak to 
the genuine supplier again on the phone before making the payment. Had R done so the 
scam would have come to light.
So, the investigator concluded that the liability should be shared equally between both 
parties, and it is fair that Lloyds reimbursed 50% of the loss R suffered, with interest.
R accepted the investigators opinion, but Lloyds didnt. The bank said, in summary:
The investigators comments that alerts should have been flagged when the funds 
credited the account and quickly removed are with the benefit of hindsight looking back 
at earlier transactional history. The anti-money laundering transaction monitoring 
landscape is inherently a post-event control seeking to identify unusual behaviour 
aligned to AML typologies. As it is a post-event control, the bank does not believe it is 
applicable for the circumstances of this case.
The account in question was correctly opened with full KYC checks completed in line 
with legal and regulatory requirements, and normal procedures. 
In addition, the bank had no concerns with the account and there was no fraud trigger in 
respect of the subsequent outbound payment activities. Therefore, the bank had not 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances. Even if the bank had stopped the 
outgoing payments and contacted its customer, it would have been easy for them to 
satisfy any concerns as the payments were authorised by them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has an ongoing obligation to be alert to various risks in relation to accounts with it. 
Specifically, Im mindful that it:  
must conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence;
has a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish and maintain 
effective systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used to further financial crime (SYSC 3.2.6R of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook);
must fairly and reasonably been monitoring accounts and any payments made or 
received to counter various risks including anti-money laundering and preventing fraud 
and scams. At the material time, those requirements included maintaining proportionate 
and risk-sensitive policies and procedures to identify, assess and manage risk, e.g. 
through customer due-diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business 
relationship including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the 
course of the relationship;
I am also mindful of what the Payment Systems Regulator has said about the role of 
receiving PSPs in relation to authorised push payment fraud.  For example, in the Which? 
authorised push payments super-complaint PSR response December 2016, they have 
said: 
APP scams can be prevented by receiving PSPs monitoring inbound payments and 
intervening where they identify suspect transactions
We consider that receiving PSPs may potentially be able to do more in terms of 
proactively monitoring inbound payment activity to help prevent APP scams. ..
In terms of regulatory obligations, those PSPs that come under the FCAs Handbook, 
such as banks and building societies, are obliged to have adequate policies and 
procedures to counter the risk that they might be used for financial crime, including 
fraud.
Since PSPs face ongoing duties to prevent financial crime (SYSC 6.3.1 and SYSC 
6.3.3), the need to conduct customer due diligence checks does not end once the 
account is open. An account that passed all the appropriate checks when it was opened 
may be used for fraudulent purposes at a later date.
Likewise, a bank must have systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs on its customers account that might indicate risk of fraud. This is at the very least to 
ensure that their own customer hasnt fallen victim to a scam, particularly given the increase 
in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years.
Ultimately, it is a matter for the bank as to how it chooses to configure its fraud detection 
systems and strike a balance between allowing its customers to transact business and 
questioning transactions to confirm they are legitimate. But where a complainant alleges that 
that a bank didnt do enough to prevent a loss which resulted from an APP fraud, I will look 
into the circumstances of the case and decide based on what I have seen, whether, in that 
case, the bank could have fairly and reasonably done more.
The bank has provided relevant information to our service to allow us to investigate this. I am 
limited as to how much information I can share because it relates to a third-party account. 
But Id like to assure R that Ive carefully reviewed everything before reaching my decision. 
Having reviewed the submissions, I agree with the investigator that Lloyds could have done 
more here to help prevent the loss to R.  
Account opening
We have not been provided with a copy of the account opening documents by Lloyds 
despite requests. So, it is difficult for me to safely conclude that there was nothing of concern 
at the account opening stage. Nevertheless, it is my view that Lloyds in any case missed a subsequent opportunity to 
prevent the financial loss to R.
Account activity
Briefly, as I understand it, the recipients account was opened about a year prior to Rs 
money arriving in the account. During this period, I can see that there was hardly any activity 
on the account. There were just one or two very small payments in and out. 
It was in these circumstances Rs payment of nearly £53,000 came into the account. This 
was an unusual transaction compared to prior account activity, and also of very high value.  
This was then followed by a series of large payments out of the account. Lloyds has not 
provided us with the times when these payments went out. However, from the bank 
statement it appears that the first outgoing payment was for £8,000. This outgoing payment 
was also unusual to the previous account activity and far greater than the only payment of 
£130 made out of the account during the entire year prior to this. This was then followed by a 
series of large payments on the same day. In fact, the whole of Rs £53,000 was transferred 
out via multiple payments on the same day.
Given all this, I agree with the investigator that there was enough going on here that ought to 
have prompted Lloyds to take a closer look at what was happening, at least when the first 
payment was made out of the account, if not earlier. 
The bank says that the investigators opinion that alerts should have been flagged is with the 
benefit of hindsight looking back at earlier transactional history. However, I consider that 
previous account activity is a key factor for a bank to decide - at any given point in time - 
whether or not an alert ought to be flagged. So, I dont accept that looking at the earlier 
transactional history to decide whether an alert ought to have been flagged is with the 
benefit of hindsight.
I cannot be certain as to what would have happened had the bank intervened. So, I will have 
to consider what more likely would have happened had the bank contacted its customer and 
if they were reachable. 
It may be, to start with, the banks objective would have been to look out for unusual 
transactions going out of the account in order to protect its customer from the possibility of 
fraud. But that would have given the bank an opportunity to look more closely at what was 
going on. Had it done so, it would have noticed that after very little activity for more than a 
year, an unusually large amount was received.
The bank says that even if it carried out further investigation, their customer would have 
been able to satisfy any concerns about the incoming payment. Further, even though their 
customers stated business was cleaning, it was entirely possible that R could have had a 
business need for cleaning services. 
However, the bank would have been able to see from its records that their customers 
business supposedly started a year ago. So, by the time these transactions happened a year 
later, it would be reasonable to expect some business related transactions on the account, 
as for example purchase of materials and payment of wages. But there was hardly any 
activity on the account. Thus, their customer received a large sum of £53,000 without any 
evidence of prior business activity. 
If the customer claimed the £53,000  which was a large sum - as a payment for cleaning 
services already carried out by them, then it is reasonable to expect that, beforehand, there was sufficient activity on the bank account such as payment to staff and other overheads. 
But there were no payments at all such as for materials, salary, direct debits, utility payments 
and everyday expenses which one could reasonably expect to see in a business account. 
If the customer were to present this as some advance payment, then there ought to be some 
correspondence between R and them to evidence this. But it is more likely they wouldnt 
have been able to show any email exchange or correspondence between their business and 
R justifying these payments, as none such existed.
I have taken into account what the bank has said, and I acknowledge that it is difficult to 
know for certain what would have happened had the bank intervened early on and 
questioned its customer about the source of incoming payments. But taking all of the above 
into account, I am not persuaded, on balance, that their customer would have been able to 
provide a credible explanation given the anomalies. 
Generally, when there are concerns about a payment (or payments), banks do tend to 
thoroughly investigate the matter. And had Lloyds done so, I think it would have, during this 
time received the scam notification from the remitting bank. 
Thus, I think the bank missed an opportunity here to help prevent the financial loss to R. 
Therefore, it is only fair that it compensates R for losses that it would not have suffered but 
for the banks failures. 
Did R act reasonably in the circumstances?
For completeness, Ive also considered whether R should bear some responsibility for their 
loss due to any contributory negligence. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that R 
could have done more to prevent the scam for the reasons given by them.  However, this 
does not negate the fact that Lloyds too missed an opportunity to prevent Rs loss, as 
described above.  
In the circumstances I consider it fair that the loss is shared equally between Lloyds and R.
Putting things right
As I understand it, the total payment made to the fraudster was £52,800. Of this, £16,953.31 
has since been recovered leaving a loss of £35,846.69. I ask R to confirm that they had not 
received any further payments from any other source such as their insurers. 
For the reasons given, this loss should be borne equally by Lloyds and R. This means 
Lloyds should reimburse £17,924 to R. It should also pay interest on this sum. 
The funds were lost from a business current account, which earned little interest. But the 
relevant question is the opportunity cost of the lost funds to R. In this case, I cannot be 
certain about the cost to R of being deprived of the money because it might have used the 
funds in a variety of ways. It is however clear to see that this was a large sum of money, and 
the loss has had a big impact on the company. In the circumstances, without any compelling 
reason to depart from our usual approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that Lloyds pay R 
simple interest at 8% p.a. on the sum reimbursed.  
The investigator has said that the interest should be paid from the date when R made the 
payment to the genuine supplier (which I understand was about three weeks after the 
fraudulent transaction) to the date of settlement. I accept it is a reasonable time period. My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
In full and final settlement of it, Lloyds Bank Plc should pay R 50% of the loss it incurred 
together with simple interest at 8% p.a. Interest should be paid from the date R paid its 
supplier to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman