DRN-2718307
The complaint
Mr L complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard when he requested a balance transfer.
What happened
Mr Ls account was blocked when Barclaycards fraud prevention measures identified 
concerns after a balance transfer request was received via the Barclaycard app. The block 
was removed but there was a delay as Barclaycard was unable to verify Mr Ls identity when 
he called having received a text message about the further checks Barclaycard needed to 
do. 
Mr Ls account was eventually unblocked. But Mr L says when he tried to apply for the 
balance transfer again the transaction was again flagged, and his account blocked for a 
second time.
Mr L says that as a result he missed out on a balance transfer deal. And that he spent a lot 
of time (around six hours) on the phone - trying to get through to Barclaycard and then to 
resolve matters. So, he complained to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard hasnt disputed that it blocked Mr Ls account. It said that the account had been 
blocked as it had concerns that Mr Ls account was at risk of fraud. And it has apologised for 
the longer than normal call waiting times Mr L experienced. But it explained this was due to 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic  its call centres in India had to be closed and its UK 
call centres became overwhelmed, which was outside of its control. So, Barclaycard didnt 
agree it had done anything wrong. 
Unhappy with Barclaycards response. Mr L referred his complaint to us. He said he didnt 
think the Covid-19 pandemic was a valid reason for the long call waiting times and that 
Barclaycards security measures were too excessive.
In submitting its complaint information to us, Barclaycard says Mr Ls card was blocked 
initially as a precaution as transactions on the account fell within its fraud caution 
parameters. And that it was due to a separate set of checks - unrelated to the balance 
transfer request, that meant the account was blocked for a second time. But, ultimately, it 
said Mr Ls account was unblocked and that a balance transfer was authorised and 
processed on the account, so he hasnt lost out financially as a result. 
It also acknowledged the long call waiting times Mr L experienced and it apologised. But it 
says this was out of its control due to adaptations to its service that were introduced due to 
guidance as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ls complaint. But she didnt think Barclaycard had 
done anything wrong. She said Mr Ls account terms and conditions explained that 
transactions could be blocked if Barclaycard had any concerns that a transaction might not 
have be authorised by the account holder. And she added that she hadnt seen anything to 
suggest Mr L had lost out financially as a result. She did recognise that long call waiting 
times were frustrating, but she explained that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected the 
service levels of all businesses and so she thought Barclaycards apology was enough. So, 
she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt accept this. He said that waiting for six hours for Barclaycard to answer the 
phone warranted compensation. He said Barclaycard should have more UK call centres. 
And he asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but Ive reached the same overall conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Under the terms and conditions, Barclaycard can suspend account services if it believes this 
is necessary for security reasons, or to prevent suspected unauthorised or fraudulent use of 
an account. Mr L agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions when opening his 
account. 
So, the starting point here is that its right for Barclaycard to have security measures and 
procedures in place to safeguard customers accounts and prevent fraud so far as possible. 
As to exactly what those procedures are and how they are carried out, that is a matter for 
Barclaycard to decide. That is not something this service becomes involved in.
What I need to decide here is whether it applied its procedure correctly and fairly. 
I can see that at the start of June 2020, Barclaycard sent Mr L a text message to verify the 
transaction which had been flagged for potential fraud checks. But when Mr L called, he was 
unable to pass its telephone security checks. So, it sent him a letter  including a specific 
reference number. Mr L passed security having received the letter and successfully quoted 
the reference number. At this point, his card was unblocked. I understand that this was 
inconvenient for Mr L. But I dont think its an unreasonable approach  Barclaycard was 
already concerned that Mr Ls account was at risk of fraud, so I think it was right to wait to 
fully verify Mr Ls identity before unblocking his account.
I appreciate that Mr Ls account was blocked on a second occasion  just around a week 
later. Mr L says this was a result of him attempting the balance transfer again, whereas 
Barclaycard says this was a result of separate fraud checks. But its not in dispute that the 
account was blocked again. Barclaycard said, on this occasion, it took the precaution on 
issuing a replacement card and Mr L subsequently cleared security and the balance transfer 
he required was processed.  
 
Overall, I do sympathise with the situation Mr L found himself in  his account was blocked 
twice in quick succession. But the nature of bank security checks means that they will cause 
some inconvenience to some customers from time to time. But the measures are there to 
protect customers accounts. And I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong by temporarily 
suspending Mr Ls account after its fraud detection system flagged potential security issues. But from what Ive seen, it seems the balance transfer Mr L wanted was processed and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest he lost out financially as a result of the delay.  
I can see that the main thrust of Mr Ls complaint and what he feels most strongly about 
now, is the time he spent trying to contact Barclaycard about these issues. Mr L says that he 
spent six hours on the phone  and I have no reason to doubt that.
And, in normal circumstances, I would agree that the amount of time Mr L had to wait would 
be unacceptable. But, due to Covid-19 pandemic, Barclaycard wasnt operating in normal 
circumstances. And I think this is something I have to have regard for.
Here Barclaycard has explained that due to the pandemic it had to close its call centres in 
India. On this point, I should explain that its not for this service to tell Barclaycard how to run 
its business  its entitled to make its own commercial decisions about where it maintains its 
call centres.
The pandemic has affected all countries around the world, and businesses have had to 
adapt their operations quickly as a result. Additionally, at this time, Barclaycards regulator  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), was encouraging bank customers to telephone their 
bank rather than attending a branch in person. So, taking this all into account, I dont think 
that longer call waiting times were unexpected given these circumstances.    
And, from what Ive seen, the call waiting time Mr L has mentioned is spread across several 
phone calls - not just one call. So, while I can understand that Mr L was annoyed that 
making these calls took longer than he would have liked, I dont think I can hold Barclaycard 
responsible for that given the circumstances outlined above.
Barclaycard has acknowledged that the circumstances here caused Mr L some 
inconvenience. And it has apologised. Given the wider circumstances at the time these 
events happened, and I think thats enough. 
So, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman