DRN-3744712
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by True Potential Wealth Management LLP to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr M says that the alternatives he had were not fully 
considered. And it was not looked at how he could meet his retirement aims by remaining in 
his DB scheme. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS (the DB pension scheme) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved pension benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of 
defined benefit pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was 
closed to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated 
Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that, if 
risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to 
BSPS2 or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices 
was 11 December (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr M contacted an adviser in 2017 for advice on his pension planning. This business 
completed a fact find and risk profile questionnaire. As they couldnt provide DB transfer 
advice they introduced him to True Potential. As far as I can see True Potential didnt 
complete further fact find or risk profile documents. 
The information gathered at the time of advice showed that Mr M:
Was aged 52, married and had three children, one of whom was financially 
dependent.
Was employed by Tata Steel and earned £33,000 a year. This gave him £2,000 a 
month after tax. Their expenditure was below this. 
Owned their own home with a value of £170,000, he and Mrs M had a mortgage of 
£16,000.
Had no other debts. 
Was a member of the Tata Steel Group Personal Pension.
Had £5,000 in savings (I note this was initially recorded as being £15,000 on the fact 
find).
The assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk said that he could take a balanced risk. It was 
also assessed that Mr M had enough tolerance and capacity for loss to make the DB 
transfer. 
On 11 December 2017, True Potential advised Mr M to transfer his pension benefits, which 
were worth just over £400,000, into a SIPP and invest the proceeds in one of its managed 
funds. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were that Mr M 
wanted to:
Retire at age 60.
Have enough income in retirement, he wanted £15,000 a year or £1,200 a month. 
Make sure his wife had enough income in retirement. 
Be able to transfer his retirement funds to his wife or children on his death.
Mr M complained in 2022 to True Potential about the suitability of the transfer advice. This 
was because: 
He felt he could have met his retirement aims by staying in the DB scheme, this 
wasnt properly considered. 
The pension was his largest guaranteed asset, so he shouldnt have been advised to 
risk it. 
He had a lower attitude to risk than balanced, given the answers he wrote on the 
attitude to risk questionnaire. 
He hadnt decided to transfer out of the DB scheme when he met True Potential. 
True Potential didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said:
The advice process that it used in DB transfer cases had been looked at by the 
industry regulator and found to be fit for purpose. 
Mr M had decided to transfer out of the BSPS scheme regardless of whether True 
Potential advised him to or not. 
The PPF and BSPS2 would not have met Mr Ms retirement or life cover needs.  
The flexibility and potential income from the SIPP did meet Mr M, and his familys, 
needs at the time.
The transfer didnt have too much risk for him. 
It wasnt reasonable to rely solely on critical yield analysis. 
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that True Potential pay compensation. The Investigator said that Mr M could 
have met his retirement aims within the BSPS. And the BSPS was likely to be his primary 
pension and so it wasnt right that he was advised to risk it. His attitude to risk wasnt 
properly assessed and the transfer wasnt financially viable. 
The Investigator also thought the retirement and death benefits attached to the DB scheme 
were underplayed. Overall, he thought Mr M shouldve been advised to opt into the BSPS2, 
the details of which were known at the time of the advice. The investigator recommended 
that True Potential should compensate Mr M for the losses he incurred by transferring his 
DB pension and that compensation should be based on him having opted to join the BSPS2.
True Potential disagreed, saying:
It wasnt persuaded that the Financial Ombudsman Service was applying the rules 
and regulations from the time correctly Whilst it believed the transfer was suitable for Mr M, it was only required to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that this was the case. 
It exercised reasonable skill and care when it advised Mr M and so it met its 
regulatory obligations. 
It isnt reasonable to rely solely on critical yields and transfer value analysis reports 
(TVAS), indeed the FCA has said that a business should not do this when advising 
customers. 
Mr M would have transferred in any event due to the situation with the BSPS 
schemes and his employer. 
It wasnt clear at the time of advice that BSPS2 would go ahead. So, it wasnt 
possible to advise him to go into this. 
Mr M wanted to capitalise on the significant enhancement to his transfer value. It 
wouldnt have been advising him correctly if it had not taken advantage of this. 
Full information was provided at the time and Mr M gave no indication that he didnt 
understand it. 
If Mr Ms wider circumstances are considered, then the advice was suitable for him. it 
provided flexibility and the enhanced life cover that he wanted. 
The investigator didnt change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.True Potential says that its adviser was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
advice was suitable for Mr M. I agree that under the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) True Potential was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that its personal 
recommendation to Mr M was suitable for him (COBS 9.2.1). However, additional regulations 
apply to advising on transferring out of DB schemes. These additional regulations say that 
the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. And that a 
business should only have considered a transfer out of the scheme if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests. Ill explain 
why.
Financial viability 
True Potential carried out a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) showing how much Mr Ms 
pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme (the critical yield). 
True Potential has said that that BSPS2 may not have gone ahead so the only worthwhile 
comparison it could provide was with the benefits available to Mr M through the PPF. Whilst 
the point of sale documentation does contain information about the BSPS2 I think its 
reasonable to say the advice concentrated on Mr M remaining in the BSPS and then moving 
the PPF.  
Information about the BSPS2 was provided in the suitability letter and the TVAS. But I think 
True Potential overestimated the chance of the BSPS2 not happening. Mr M had received 
his time to choose pack by the time the advice was given. And details of the scheme had 
been provided; the BSPS2 wouldve offered the same income benefits but the annual 
increases wouldve been lower. So, I think Mr M should have been advised about the BSPS2 
on the basis that it was a viable option available to him.
According to the fact-find and suitability report, Mr M said he wanted to retire at age 60, 
although he may retire at age 65. The relevant critical yields for the BSPS2 at age 65 was 
6.37% if he took a full pension or 4.66% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. The 
critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF was 4.77% if Mr M took 
a full pension, or 4.27% if he took tax-free cash and a reduced pension. 
The suitability letter also provided the same percentages for Mr M at age 60. In general 
these were 1 to 2 percentages higher. The comparison with the BSPS2 provided critical 
yields of 8.56% for a full pension and 5.99% with tax free cash. And the relevant 
percentages at this age for the PPF were 6.21% and 5.55%. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case. 
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and 
was 4% for 12 years to retirement, that is to Mr Ms age 65 and 3.4% for a period of 7 years 
to retirement, his age 60. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.Mr M has said that his attitude to risk was lower than the balanced risk tolerance the 
business recorded. I agree that the questions asked were simplistic and were asked by the 
first firm Mr M saw. Mr M seems to have had had limited contact with True Potential. So, 
I dont think True Potential can be said to have properly assessed his attitude to risk. That 
said, he was informed that True Potential was recommending he proceed on this basis and 
its reasonable to assume he would take some risk with a longer term investment. But for the 
avoidance of doubt I agree that his attitude to risk was likely to be lower than balanced, 
particularly as this pension accounted for the vast majority of Mr Ms retirement provision. 
In this case the critical yield was over 4.77% if Mr M took a full pension from the PPF at age 
65. And the majority of the critical yields, including those that mirrored Mr Ms planned 
retirement date and tax free cash objectives were much higher than this. So, I think Mr M 
was likely to receive benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his tolerance to risk, particularly if 
he retired early as he wanted to.
True Potential says that it isnt right to consider the discount rate because taking this into 
account was not required by the regulator when giving advice. While I havent based my 
findings on this alone, I dont think it should be discounted. 
Under COBS 19.1.2 the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely to be 
paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using reasonable 
assumptions. So, businesses were free to use the discount rate as this would be considered 
a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And the regulator required True Potential to 
consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved to replicate the 
benefits being given up.
And in any event, Ive considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection 
rates, which providers were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Ms 
likely attitude to risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he 
transferred out of the DB scheme.
Given Mr M was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits by transferring to a 
personal pension, for this reason alone I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in 
his best interests. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as True 
Potential has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable and in Mr Ms best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It doesnt appear that Mr M was looking for flexibility in retirement. This is because based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think he had any genuine need to access his tax free cash 
earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later 
date. There is mention of Mr M taking a lump sum to help his children purchase a property, 
but it doesnt appear this was envisaged before he retired, so he couldve simply taken his 
tax-free cash from the DB scheme to meet this need.
I also cant see any evidence that Mr M had a strong need for variable income throughout his 
retirement. Instead, Mr Ms objective was to have a level income of around £15,000 per year 
as he didnt expect to have any remaining debt or to need to support his children financially. To my mind, Mr Ms objective was best met by taking a guaranteed income from a DB 
scheme.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr M could have met his income needs in retirement through the DB 
scheme at 65. Taking what True Potential recorded at face value, Mr M wanted £15,000 per 
year, or £1,200 per month. 
The suitability report firstly looked at the situation if Mr M ended up in the PPF. In this case 
Mr M was entitled to an annual income of around £19,288 at age 65. Or he could take 
around £100,254 in tax free cash and a pension of £15,091. And at age 60 he could receive 
a pension of over £15,618 without any tax-free cash or a pension of £12,643 and tax-free 
cash of around £84,008. I think these amounts largely met Mr Ms recorded retirement aims.  
There was a similar analysis based on Mr Ms pension entitlement moving to BSPS2. And 
the amounts provided were higher. The pension he could have received was around 
£22,008 at age 65, or he could have taken tax free cash of £99,743 and an income of 
£14,961. The amounts at age 60 were very similar to those the PPF would have provided. 
So, again, its reasonable to say this option would have met his recorded aims, even if Mr M 
retired at age 60.
Mr and Mrs M would both receive state pension in retirement. And Mr M was building up a 
fund which could be used flexibly in his employers new group personal pension. So, I dont 
think there is any doubt that Mr M could have met his retirement aims by remaining in the DB 
scheme. In fact the advice was given on the basis that Mr M didnt really need this DB 
scheme as his needs would be met with the state pension. This is acknowledged in the 
suitability letter in which the DB scheme income is described as being surplus to 
requirements. But I cant agree that Mr Ms main pension, having been built up over the 
course of over 30 years of work, could be said to be surplus to his requirements. 
True Potential may argue that once Mr Ms state pension became payable he would have 
too much income. But Mr M couldve reinvested any surplus income for the benefit of his 
children in a tax-efficient manner such as within a trust.
In summary, even if Mr and Mrs M could have got by without the income form Mr Ms DB 
scheme once their state pensions became payable this isnt a good reason to transfer in 
itself. This income would have been an important foundation for their retirement, providing a 
guaranteed amount that wouldve covered Mr and Mrs Ms main expenses, from age 60, 
meaning that any income received above this couldve allowed them to enjoy their retirement 
fully. 
Death benefits
Other than Mr Ms general concerns about his employer and the scheme, it seems he was 
advised to transfer, in the main, due to the different death benefits, and the ability to leave a 
legacy to his children, that the transfer offered. The suitability letter says that the main 
reason Mr M shouldnt think about electing to join the BSPS2 was that he would be unable to 
leave a lasting legacy to his children, as only one of them was dependent. 
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think True Potential explored to what extent Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr M 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the DB scheme wouldve been useful 
to his spouse if Mr M predeceased her. There was also provision for a childrens pension 
which would have provided a pension up to his childrens age 23. I understand this could 
have benefitted one of Mr Ms children. I dont think True Potential made the value of this 
benefit clear enough to Mr M. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent 
on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension 
was. In any event, True Potential should not have encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
True Potential argues that the spouses pension provided under the BSPS2 or the PPF 
wouldnt have been sufficient to provide for Mrs M in the event of Mr Ms death. But if Mr M 
retired at age 60, his wife wouldve been entitled to Mr Ms full pension in the unlikely event 
that he died within five years of his retirement and then 50% thereafter. This means that in 
reality, Mrs Ms income need of around £15,000 per year wouldve been covered under the 
PPF or the BSPS2 until she was aged 58 (Mrs M was around seven years younger than 
Mr M). At this point the pension income would halve and Mrs M wouldnt be entitled to her 
own state pension for another nine years. So, there was potentially a shortfall between 
Mrs M being aged 58 and 67. True Potential may argue that this is why a transfer was 
necessary. 
However, it is noted in the fact-find that in retirement Mr and Mrs Ms basic income needs 
were only £1,000 per month  Mr M said that £1,250 per month would make him 
comfortable. So, Mrs Ms shortfall between ages 58 and 67 would be in the region of £400 
per month or around £5,000 per year. Mr M wouldve been paying into his employers group 
personal pension for around eight years before he retired at age 60. And it is also noted in 
the fact-find that Mr M had savings of £5,000. So overall, in the unlikely event that Mr M 
passed away at age 65, I think Mrs M wouldve had sufficient provision through the DB 
scheme and the money purchase pension to cover her expenses until her state pension 
became payable.
If Mr M passed away later in life I also think Mrs M was provided for. As Ive said above, 
Mr M wouldve been building up funds in his money purchase pension that he wouldnt have 
had reason to drawn on given his retirement needs were already being covered by his DB 
scheme and state pension. So, this couldve been a sizable fund that Mr M could pass on to 
any beneficiary of his choosing. For this reason, I dont think Mr M needed to transfer out of 
the DB scheme to ensure his wife was provided for in the event of his death.
And in any event, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his spouse and children, 
which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his 
death, I think True Potential shouldve instead explored life insurance. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that insurance was 
properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr M, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he 
was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. Hed heard negative things about the PPF 
and its recorded that he said he preferred to have control over his pension fund. So its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the PPF. However, it 
was True Potentials obligation to give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was 
in his best interests.
As Ive explained, by this point details of BSPS2 were known and it seemed likely it was 
going ahead. But even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that True 
Potential shouldve reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr M through the PPF wouldve still 
provided enough to meet his recorded aims. And although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to True Potential recommending Mr M 
transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
True Potential recommended that Mr M invest in a balanced portfolio. And Mr M thinks this 
wasnt right for him. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the 
DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr M, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of 
the investment recommendation. This is because Mr M should have been advised to remain 
in the DB scheme and so the investments in the managed fund wouldnt have arisen if 
suitable advice had been given.
Time to retirement and enhanced transfer value
True Potential has said that the establishment of BSPS2 was still not guaranteed and 
even if Mr M chose the BSPS2 he might have ended up in the PPF after all. And then a 
transfer at a later date, closer to retirement, would not have been possible. And if his 
scenario played out then Mr M would lose out on the enhancements to the transfer value 
that were on offer at the time of advice. 
I do think it was more likely than not at the time BSPS2 would go ahead. However, I 
appreciate there was still a risk of Mr M ending up in the PPF and not being able to 
transfer in future.
But, overall and as set out above, I think a guaranteed income from the PPF would 
have still been valuable and it would have met Mr Ms aims. And he could have still 
retired early if he wanted to. He would have had some flexible benefits through his 
other pensions. So I dont think this scenario had to be avoided at all cost.
I also dont see that potentially lower transfer values from BSPS2 in the future were reason 
enough to transfer immediately.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But True 
Potential wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2 (or the PPF). By transferring 
to a SIPP Mr M was, in my view, likely to obtain lower retirement benefits at either age 60 or 65. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would justify the transfer 
and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was in Mr Ms best interests for him to transfer his DB 
scheme to a personal pension now when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 hadnt been confirmed when the advice was given, but I think it 
was clear to all parties that it was likely to be going ahead.  So, I don't think that it would've 
been in Mr Ms interest to accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme 
entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early 
retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr M wouldve retained the ability to transfer out 
of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. 
Also, Mr M was married, and his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the 
date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if 
Mr M chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment was also more 
advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think True Potential shouldve advised Mr M to opt 
into the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against True 
Potential's advice. True Potential argues that this is the case, it says that regardless of the 
advice given, Mr M made an informed choice to proceed with the transfer due to the situation 
with the scheme and his employer. And it believes Mr M wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that True Potential disclosed some of risks of transferring to Mr M, and provided him 
with a significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr M 
to transfer out, and I think Mr M relied on that advice. Mr M has confirmed this is the case. 
He has said that he was concerned about the situation with his employer and the scheme, 
but, ultimately, he would have accepted the advice he was given. And I think that is reflected 
in the suitability report as it states Mr Ms objective was to assess his options and that he 
wanted to know what the best course of action was for his retirement. I dont think this 
suggests Mr Ms mind was made up about transferring regardless of the advice he received.
Mr M was also a relatively inexperienced investor and this pension accounted for the 
majority of his non state retirement provision at the time. So, if True Potential had provided 
him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in 
his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Ms fear about the PPF was so great that he wouldve insisted on 
the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought out and was 
paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. And if True Potential 
had explained Mr M was unlikely to exceed the benefits available to him through the PPF if 
he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in retirement without risking his 
guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Our Investigator recommended that True Potential pay Mr M £250 for the distress caused by 
the unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr M has been caused distress and concern in 
relation to his retirement planning. As he says, it has caused him some worry and sleepless 
nights. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the unsuitable advice. And so, 
in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator recommended is fair.
Putting things rightOn 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
He didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case he doesnt want 
to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for True Potentials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr 
M would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
True Potential may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Ms contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date True Potential receives 
notification of his/her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes True Potential to pay 
Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect True Potential to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
True Potential should also pay Mr M £250. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £170,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £170,000, I would additionally require
True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as 
set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £170,000, I would only require True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential Wealth 
Management LLP.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman