DRN-2210209
The complaint
Mr G complained that Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans acted irresponsibly when it 
accepted him as guarantor for a loan.
What happened
In December 2018, Mr G entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a 
loan for £8,000 that Buddy Loans provided to a borrower. The loan was due to be repaid in 
36 monthly instalments, mostly of around £391. The total amount to be repaid over the three 
year loan term was £13,994.01 including interest.
Mr G says that he couldnt afford to guarantee the loan and he agreed to it only to help out a 
long-standing friend who told him he was trying to put his finances in order. He thinks Buddy 
Loans didnt carry out sufficient checks and had it done so it would have seen that he had 
other debts, he was constantly utilising his overdraft and he had a gambling habit  so it 
should not have accepted him as a guarantor.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint and upheld the complaint. Buddy 
Loans didnt agree with the investigators assessment. So the matter has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our 
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
Buddy Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when 
it accepted Mr G as guarantor for the loan. Ive carefully considered all the arguments, 
evidence and information provided in this context and what it means for Mr Gs complaint. In 
doing so, I have considered the following key questions:
 Did Buddy Loans obtain Mr Gs properly informed consent to become guarantor for the 
loan?
 Did Buddy Loans carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did not? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
 Ultimately, did Buddy Loans make a fair lending decision (as Mr G would be equally liable 
for this loan with the borrower).
From what Ive seen, and after I've carefully listened to what Mr G discussed with Buddy 
Loans, I think its likely that Mr G understood the consequences of being a guarantor and he 
did freely consent to becoming the loan guarantor for this loan, in the knowledge that the 
monthly repayments were around £390 and the loan was due to run for three years.
The rules and regulations required Buddy Loans to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of whether Mr G could afford to repay this loan in a sustainable manner, should 
the borrower fail to do so, as he was equally liable with the borrower. It had to carry out this 
guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks it was required to 
undertake in relation to the borrower. In effect, this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure 
that, if the guarantee was enforced against Mr G, it wouldnt impact adversely on his own 
financial situation.
I've taken into account that Buddy Loans told us that it carried out checks in line with its 
regulatory obligations and it also allowed for an extra £100 spending to cover unexpected 
costs. It calculated that that Mr G should have disposable income of around £1,174 each 
month so it was satisfied that he could meet the loan repayments, if he was called upon to 
do so as guarantor. But our investigator didnt think that Buddy Loans did enough checking 
before accepting Mr G as guarantor  and I agree.
I say this because although Buddy Loans had gathered income and expenditure information 
from Mr G, and done a background check on his salary, I think its fair to say that its credit 
checks showed clear signs that Mr Gs finances were already stretched. 
Buddy Loans could see that he owed £18,000 on credit cards and he also had other finance 
agreements. 
The credit check results show that Mr G had used most of his available credit and he was 
approaching the limit on four credit cards. 
In addition, he was utilising the overdraft on two bank current accounts that were in in sole 
name  and he had a joint current account overdraft which had also been persistently 
overdrawn for more than 12 months. 
It was apparent that the balances on several credit accounts hadnt been reducing for some 
time and Mr G wasnt making any obvious inroads into this debt. 
I think Buddy Loans should have realised that what Mr G had said about his financial 
situation appeared to be significantly at odds with what its own credit checks showed. So it 
needed to carry out further and more in-depth checks to gain a proper understanding of his 
financial situation to ensure it didnt accept him as guarantor if he wasnt in a position to 
sustainably afford the loan repayment. 
And also bearing in mind the amount of the loan repayment he was signing up to guarantee, 
and the loan term, I dont think its checks were proportionate. 
So I've thought about what a proportionate check would likely have revealed to Buddy Loans 
Mr G has provided us with copies of his bank statements to help me understand what better 
checks might have shown to Buddy Loans at that time. And I have considered this 
information in light of what Ive set out above. 
Of course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Buddy Loans had 
carried out what I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have 
discovered more about Mr Gs financial position.In addition to what it knew about his existing use of credit and the extent of his indebtedness, 
Mr Gs bank statements show that in the run up to becoming guarantor on this loan, he was 
routinely overdrawn and typically starting and ending the month in overdraft  on one 
account his average debit balance was around £1,931. 
He was paying daily overdraft fees regularly on his other account.
I can also see that Mr G was spending on gambling. On one day in October 2018 for 
instance he spent at least £300 on what appear to be online gambling transactions. Im not 
suggesting that was necessarily typical daily spending  but at the time he was £2,153 
overdrawn and close to his £2,300 overdraft limit on the account. 
So I think if Buddy Loans had done a proportionate check it couldve found out about this 
information and it wouldve realised that there was a serious risk that Mr G wouldnt be able 
to sustainably afford to pay this loan if he needed to.
And I think if Buddy Loans had looked further into Mr Gs financial position it should have 
realised that after paying his regular expenses, and if he was making meaningful progress 
towards repaying his existing creditors( as opposed to just making minimum repayments 
which would never be enough to clear his debt in a reasonable timescale), it didnt look likely 
that Mr G would have sufficient disposable income to meet his repayments as guarantor. 
Mr G potentially had to maintain the loan repayments as guarantor every month for three 
years  he was at risk of having to repay almost £14,000. Overall, I think Buddy Loans ought 
fairly to have realised that Mr G was most likely going to find it very difficult to manage his 
financial position to be able to do this and that it was unlikely that he would be able to 
sustainably repay the loan as guarantor, over the extended loan term. 
So Buddy Loans shouldnt have agreed to this arrangement. 
I havent seen enough information to make me think that Buddy Loans acted unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr G in some other way. 
So I dont award any additional redress. 
But overall, I dont think that Buddy Loans ought reasonably to have accepted Mr G as loan 
guarantor. He was expected to make repayments on a loan where he shouldnt have been 
accepted as guarantor and I think Buddy Loans needs to put things right.
Putting things right
In line with our approach to redress, Buddy Loans should put Mr G in the position hed now 
be in if he hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a guarantor on this loan.
So Buddy Loans should put things right for Mr G by:
a) Releasing Mr G from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement and 
then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Mr G as guarantor. Buddy Loans must add 8%* simple 
interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Mr G paid them to the date the refund is 
paid to him.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Mr Gs credit file.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans should give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Advancis Limited trading as Buddy Loans to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman