DRN-3335410
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC is unwilling to write off a loan he says he ex-
wife applied for in his name, without his knowledge or consent.
What happened
Mr C says that in August 2019 he discovered money had been transferred from his savings 
account from a different bank to an account held at Barclays in his name. Mr C says his wife 
had made these transfers and used the account for a loan shed fraudulently taken out in his 
name. 
Mr C says a loan for £15,000 was taken out by his ex-wife which he didnt know about or 
consent to. When he discovered the debt, he started to repay it, to avoid his credit file being 
impacted. Mr C is looking for a refund of the payments he made towards the loan totalling 
£8,331.60 and would like the remainder of the loan written off.
He says his wife has admitted, to the police, to taking out this loan and creating several other 
debts in his name, without his knowledge or consent. He said his ex-wife used the loan 
funds to pay off her fathers debt, buy clothes for her and the children, and for other 
household items. Mr C says she changed his salary to be paid into this account as well. 
Barclays has provided evidence to show the loan was taken out via online banking on 
13/02/17. It says in order to do this the applicant would have needed the sort code, account 
number and online banking passcode for the existing Barclays account. 
Mr C says his ex-wife had control of the finances and the Barclays account. Mr C says he 
didnt have access to this account. But in later correspondence hes told us he did know 
about the account but thought it had been closed when he asked his ex-wife to pay off his 
mortgage, with what he thought were his savings.  
Barclays looked into the matter and decided not refund Mr Cs payments or write off the 
loan. It said that a large proportion of the loan was used to pay Mr Cs mortgage, so he 
directly benefitted from the loan  even though it accepted he hadnt applied for it. The loan 
credited Mr Cs account in 2017 and regular statements were issued. Barclays believes Mr C 
was grossly negligent for not raising a claim sooner as he should have checked his 
statements. It said Mr C wasnt able to identify the transactions on his account that he did 
not authorise and those that his ex-wife made. But overall it offered £150 in compensation 
for the length of time it took to investigate the complaint and provide an answer.
Mr C received debt collection letters, but hed understood these would be paused whilst his 
complaint was looked into. Barclays apologised and said it would hold off on debt recovery 
until the ombudsman service had looked at the complaint and it offered £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr C for sending those letters.
As Mr C was unhappy with the outcome from Barclays, he brought the complaint to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into things and said:
-he didnt think Mr C took out the loan, his ex-wife had admitted doing so without his 
consent and she had been cautioned by the police;
-reviewing the account statements, he was satisfied that all of the loan funds were 
used to pay Mr Cs mortgage and household bills, so Mr C and his family benefitted 
from the loan;
-although there were some cash withdrawals it would be impossible to know what 
these were used for and who benefitted from them; and
-Mr C gave his ex-wife full access to the account and therefore she had his authority 
to carry out transactions on the account.
The investigator recommended:
-Barclays should remove any reference of the loan on Mr Cs credit file; and
-Mr C only be held liable for the capital loan repayments and not any interest as he 
didnt agree to any of the terms of the loan.
Mr C disagreed in summary he said:
 
-his ex-wife had been found guilty of fraud so doesnt believe he should have to pay 
back the loan;
-he feels misled as he recalls being told he wouldnt need to pay anything back;
-other businesses had written of debts that his wife accrued, even if he and his family 
had benefitted from the proceeds of them; and
-he would like his ex-wife to be pursued for the debt instead of him.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me. 
Since then Barclays has responded to say it accepts the investigators recommendations but 
made an amended offer to resolve the complaint. It said it would need to liaise with the 
Credit Report Team to implement the interest free loan and create an open and active loan. 
It may be able to cleanse Mr Cs credit file of the fraudulent loan, but the interest free loan 
would still reflect on his file. But this does not adversely affect Mr C as his mortgage has 
been paid off with the funds from the loan  which would have otherwise incurred interest.
In the course of my consideration of the complaint I asked the investigator to contact Mr C 
for some additional information. As a result:
-Mr C has confirmed the mortgage was in his sole name;
-we asked Mr C if any of the financial disputes with his ex-wife had been settled as 
part of any financial separation order with his ex-wife  he has said he doesnt think 
this is relevant and hasnt provided us with any information about this. He believes 
our questions about this evidence show that we are not acting impartially.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings, so I have reviewed the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
Did Mr C apply for the loan?
 Section 83 Consumer Credit Act 1974 outlines that a debtor under a regulated consumer 
credit agreement shall not be liable to the creditor for any loss arising from the use of the 
credit facility by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
In simple terms, Mr C cant be held liable for a debt that another person, not acting on his 
behalf, took out.
All parties agree that Mr C didnt take out the loan and his ex-wife was not acting as his 
agent so Ive not had to make a finding on this point. But the starting position is that Barclays 
cannot hold him liable for the loan. But thats not my only consideration here. I have to 
consider where the funds went and who benefitted from them.
Who benefitted from the loan?
Mr C feels strongly that his ex-wife is responsible for this debt. Despite her taking out the 
loan I cant disregard who had the benefit of it. And looking at the account statements I can 
see that the vast majority of those funds were used to pay Mr Cs mortgage  to confirm 
thats a mortgage in Mr Cs sole name. So he has had the benefit of these funds even if he 
may have lost out overall from his ex-wifes actions, when considering all the financial affairs 
of the marriage. Here Im looking at the loan and those funds in isolation, not Mr Cs ex-
wifes actions and the debts she accrued in his name overall. And Im looking at whether its 
fair for Barclays to hold Mr C liable for that debt.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly that he shouldnt be held responsible for this loan but, 
ultimately, hes had the benefit of the funds so I cant fairly ask Barclays to write it off or to 
refund his payments. I know he feels his ex-wife should be held responsible for the loan but 
that would be something he needs to discuss and resolve with her.
 
As part of the course of my consideration of this complaint we asked Mr C if there had been 
any financial separation order. In some earlier correspondence Mr C said he was divorced 
but the financial separation was outstanding but when asking about this later he hasnt been 
willing to provide an update on this. I meant no offence to Mr C when asking this question. 
Where there have been allegations of fraud between married parties then this can often be 
settled when a financial separation order is taken to court, and its generally the most 
suitable opportunity for such matters to be settled. Thats not always the case, but it if there 
is a dispute about the finances that is most often the route for consumers to settle these 
matters. Sometimes those financial separation orders take place during the course of our 
investigation into complaints like Mr Cs. So it is prudent for to find out if that has been the 
case here.
Mr C has decided not to share this information with us. And I must take that into account. Its 
possible that the financial separation order has already been resolved in which case Mr C 
has had the opportunity for his overall financial position and disputes to be considered and 
settled. Or Mr C could explore this option in the future if it hasnt yet happened. This will 
include considerations of the marital assets and liabilities, as well as how they are to be 
distributed. Which means Mr C has had, or will have, the opportunity for this loan to be taken 
into account as part of the financial separation order. 
Mr C has said he has benefitted from other items where his ex-wife took out credit in his 
name. I cant comment on the actions of other businesses. Their commercial decision to 
allow Mr C to benefit from those items and not repay any debt is their choice. That doesnt 
impact my decision on whether he should repay the loan to Barclays.
 
But I do agree with the investigators findings that his credit file should be amended to reflect 
the fact he didnt take the loan out and he shouldnt be charged interest. Barclays has said it 
can amend Mr Cs credit file of the fraudulent loan, but an interest free loan would need to remain on his file. Im satisfied this is a fair and reasonable solution. Mr Cs credit file needs 
to reflect the reality of this particular financial situation and this solution resolves that issue. I 
will leave it with Mr C if he wishes to accept this offer of settlement and liaise with Barclays. 
And hes in, at least, an equitable position if not better off, as hes not paying interest on his 
mortgage.
In setting up this new loan its likely Mr C will need to interact with Barclays which I also think 
is reasonable in the circumstances. And if Mr C decides not to repay this new loan then it 
would be fair for Barclays to record that on Mr Cs credit file
.
Barclays has paid £150 in compensation for the delays in providing Mr C with an initial 
answer to his complaint and paid a further £100 for sending debt collection letters when he 
was told the activity would be paused. I can see that Mr C has suffered a great deal of 
distress because of the actions of another person, but these are not because of the actions 
by Barclays. And so, I think its offer of compensation is fair and I dont recommend that it 
pays anything further to Mr C. 
Putting things right
I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays to remove all interest and charges 
regarding the loan, and cleanse Mr Cs credit file as it has suggested.  I also think the 
compensation offered is fair and I dont recommend that it pays anything further
My final decision
I am partially upholding Mr Cs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC in line with the 
summary above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman