DRN-4502630
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance UK Limited declined a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr J took out a travel insurance policy to cover a holiday abroad. The policy was purchased 
after hed left the UK and was travelling to his final destination. 
A few months later he needed to claim on the policy for medical expenses and cutting his trip 
short. The claim was declined because the policy was purchased after hed left the UK. Mr J 
complained but Great Lakes maintained their decision was fair and in line with the policy 
terms. Mr J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and partly upheld the complaint. She thought 
the decision to decline the claim was fair, but that Mr J ought to receive a refund of his 
premiums. Great Lakes didnt agree this was fair. So, the complaint was passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the experience Mr J had. It was clearly a very difficult and worrying 
time for Mr J and his family, so I have a lot of empathy with the circumstances hes 
described. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cover cannot start after you have left your home country. Each trip must begin and 
end in your home country. 
During the sales process it says: 
By proceeding to the next page you agree that you and all people to be insured by 
this policy are: 
Not already travelling at the time of purchase. 
I dont think Great Lakes unfairly declined the claim because: 
Mr J left the UK around 48 hours before the policy was purchased. On a strict 
application of the policy terms there is no cover under the policy because he was 
already travelling. 
The sales process asked Mr J to confirm that he wasnt already travelling but the 
policy was purchased. Great Lakes wouldnt have offered Mr J cover under this 
policy if theyd known hed already left the UK. 
Its common for travel insurance policies to include a similar exclusion. Lots of travel 
insurance policies cant be purchased after departure from the UK. So, I dont think 
thats unusual or uncommon.  
Although the reason for Mr Js claim was some time after his arrival, I dont think its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Great Lakes should pay the claim outside the 
policy terms and conditions in this case. I think it would have been clear to Mr J that 
there was no cover if he was already travelling. And it was his responsibility to ensure 
that he had travel insurance cover which met his needs.   
I do think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to return the policy 
premiums to Mr J. Hes had no financial benefit from the cover and Great Lakes 
hasnt incurred any claims expenditure. So, I think returning the premiums would 
fairly reflect that Great Lakes was never on risk for a claim being paid due to the 
circumstances.   
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by refunding the policy premiums. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Mr Js complaint against Great Lakes Insurance UK Limited and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman