DRN-4071256
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy with the cost of repairs Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
recorded on the database following her claim for an escape of water.
What happened
Ms R had buildings and contents insurance with LV. While having work done to her 
bathroom, she became aware of a leak which seemed to be from her soil pipe. Ms R claimed 
under her policy.
LV arranged for leak detection which confirmed water was escaping from the soil pipe. LV 
accepted the claim. Its contractors removed surrounding plaster and bricks to expose the 
soil pipe, and arranged drying once Ms Rs plumber had stopped the leak and repaired the 
soil pipe.
However, Ms R thought the costs LV attributed to the claim caused her premium to increase 
significantly, so she compared the costs against a similar claim shed made three years 
before. Ms R concluded that LV had recorded inflated costs which, in turn, had caused her 
premium to increase. She complained to LV about the costs and about its overall handling of 
her claim over three weeks while she was without use of her bathroom.
On looking into Ms Rs complaint, LV agreed it hadnt handled things as well as it couldve 
done. It acknowledged that Ms R shouldve been offered alternative bathroom facilities, so it 
offered a payment of £210 in line with the usual disturbance allowance. LV also offered an 
additional £175 for the distress and inconvenience caused. But LV said its calculation of the 
renewal premium was based on many factors, and the cost of the claim wouldnt have 
mattered.
Ms R didnt think LVs offer went far enough and she thought it should amend the claim 
record on the database to reflect what she thought was a more realistic claim cost. She also 
asked for more compensation taking into consideration her personal circumstances. To 
settle matters, Ms R asked for a copy of the scope of work, for elements of the repair cost to 
be removed from the database, and for £800 compensation.
Our investigator didnt think LV needed to do any more in respect of Ms Rs complaint. He 
said the policy didnt require LV to provide any details of the work costs, and he thought the 
compensation already offered was fair in the circumstances. Further to this, our investigator 
didnt think the evidence showed Ms Rs premium had increased because of the claim cost.
Ms R didnt agree. She said LV told her the claim cost was a factor in calculating premiums, 
so it should amend the repair costs in line with what she thought they should be. In 
particular, she said LV needed to remove duplicate charges, and remove the compensation.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. I understand she may be 
disappointed, but Ill explain why.
I wont go into detail about each point Ms R has made, and our rules dont require me to. 
Instead, Ive looked at the overall complaint and Ill give the reasons for my decision.
Repair cost
Ms R says the repair cost recorded against her claim is inflated. LV said the costs recorded 
are accurate.
The evidence Ms R relied on to reach this conclusion is her comparison of the cost of repair 
with that of a similar claim made three years before. LVs response was that it paid the costs 
agreed with its contractors for the work, and inflation wouldve affected the amount paid.
I understand the point Ms R is making but I dont agree that her evidence confirms LV 
inflated the claim cost. Thats because her comparison isnt on a like for like basis and 
theres been a marked rise in costs over the last three years which supports LVs 
explanation. Even so, Ive looked at LVs evidence of the work done, but theres nothing 
which causes me to think the confirmed costs are wrong in any way.
So, based on the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that LV recorded the 
correct claim cost. I wont be asking LV to do anything in respect of this part of Ms Rs 
complaint.
Premium
Ms R is unhappy that the claim cost resulted in her premium increasing. LV said the actual 
cost wouldnt have affected it.
The evidence shows that LV said claim cost wouldnt be the only thing that affected the 
premium, indicating that it could be a factor. It offered £25 by way of apology for its mistake. 
Looking further into this matter, I note Ms R has made four claims in three years. Three were 
for the same peril, although she withdrew one of those claims. So, the disputed claim cost 
may have affected the premium as Ms R believes, but as Ive decided LV recorded accurate 
claim costs, I cant say that any resulting premium increase is incorrect. I think £25 by way of 
apology for giving incorrect information is fair and reasonable because the mistake didnt 
make a material difference to Ms R.
Ms R was concerned that other insurers wouldnt offer her a policy. I cant conclude from the 
evidence that they refused her a policy because of the costs attached to her most recent 
claim. In all likelihood, the insurers wouldve looked at all factors on Ms Rs claim record. 
But, as Ive said, LV simply recorded its cost to settle the claim so I cant hold it responsible 
for decisions made by other insurers.
I understand Ms R believes there are duplicate costs recorded against her claim and the 
compensation has been included, both of which will have inflated the overall cost recorded. 
LV provided me with a copy of the record and I note it includes the cost of identifying the 
leak, exposing the soil pipe for repairs, and associated costs such as parking and drying. 
The compensation offered to Ms R has been cancelled from the record. And, although Ms R didnt think leak identification was necessary, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for LV to 
confirm the leak source before going ahead with any other work. Failing to do so couldve 
meant unnecessary costs and disruption for Ms R.
I havent seen any evidence that the costs currently showing on the records are wrong, and 
Im satisfied that LVs compensation offer is fair and reasonable for its misinformation 
regarding factors contributing to premium calculation. Therefore, I see no reason to ask LV 
to amend the records.
Compensation
Ms R doesnt think LV offered her a fair compensation amount. LV offered Ms R a total 
payment of £385 in recognition of the failure to offer a bathroom pod; its misinformation; the 
appropriate disturbance allowance, and the distress and inconvenience caused.
I can only consider compensation for avoidable distress and inconvenience. The nature of 
the leak itself wouldve caused Ms R some upset, so I must set that aside from the upset LV 
caused by its delays and failure to provide the service Ms R couldve reasonably expected.
The claim went on for three weeks, during which time Ms R didnt have use of her bathroom. 
The claim records show, and Ms R confirmed, that she had sole use of her neighbours 
bathroom and she wouldnt have wanted alternative accommodation (AA) because of her 
pets needs. Given that Ms R made LV aware of the circumstances, I cant reasonably say it 
was unreasonable that LV didnt offer AA. But Ms R said she wouldve accepted the use of a 
bathroom pod. 
Ive thought carefully about this issue, but I dont think theres anything more LV needs to do. 
Thats because it already offered the disturbance allowance of £210 which relates directly to 
this service shortfall. Ms R did have use of a bathroom, albeit at some inconvenience of 
having to go from one house to another. LV offered a total of £175 compensation for the 
inconveniences that it couldve prevented, which is in line with the type of offer I wouldve 
required. Therefore, I see no reason to ask LV to increase its offer.
Thinking about the overall claim, LVs responsibility under the policy was to complete the 
work needed to allow for the leak to be repaired and for Ms R to continue with her ongoing 
bathroom works. While Ms R has been concerned with the cost of that work recorded on the 
industry database, the evidence shows LV has amended it to reflect its costs. While there 
were some shortfalls in the way LV handled Ms Rs claim, I cant see anything in the 
evidence that LV did, or didnt do, something in respect of this matter that caused an 
increase in Ms Rs premium. Im satisfied that it has done enough to show the claim cost is 
accurate and it offered fair and reasonable compensation by way of apology.
As a final point, Ive noted Ms Rs description of the ongoing health issue she suffered, the 
onset of which she says was due to LVs claim handling errors. Im sorry to hear of the 
difficulties Ms R is experiencing, though I wont go into detail for confidentiality reasons. But 
the leak itself and the need to claim under the policy while already having the disruption of 
ongoing work to her bathroom will likely have caused inconvenience and distress. None of 
that couldve been avoided, so I cant reasonably conclude from the evidence that LV 
contributed to Ms Rs health issues.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or reject my decision before 21 June 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman