DRN-3506962
The complaint
Miss Z is seeking to recover approximately £1,660 from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
that she lost as the result of a third party scam. 
Barclays say they are not liable for the loss because Miss Z unwittingly authorised the 
payments herself. They said they could not reasonably have intervened or done more to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Miss Z had been the victim of a scam. On 4 October 
2021 she was tricked into sending three payments of £560, £600 and then £500 from her 
Barclays account to a cryptocurrency account held in her name. There were also two 
payments to her own bank account with another bank. 
Miss Z sent these payments after she received a call from someone purporting to be from 
the authorities. They told her that her National Insurance number had been compromised 
and was being used by criminals in the commission of illegal offences. She agreed to help 
them catch the criminals and so followed their instructions carefully. The activity she was 
instructed to do took place over two of her bank accounts and included transferring money 
between her Barclays account and her account with another bank; opening cryptocurrency 
accounts and sending payments to her cryptocurrency account and then on to different 
cryptocurrency wallets; and buying gift vouchers from supermarkets and telling the 
scammers the codes. 
The transactions she completed on behalf of the scammers that are relevant to this specific 
complaint are payments to her cryptocurrency account from her Barclays account. The 
scammers told Miss Z to install the cryptocurrency platform application and set up an 
account and go through the relevant security checks whilst they watched on through a 
screen sharing application. They told her to make payments into her cryptocurrency account, 
and then send them on to different wallets. 
The scammers stopped contacting Miss Z when they realised she had run out of money, and 
it was then Miss Z realised it was a scam. She complained to both of her banks, and the 
other refunded her in full. Barclays declined to refund her because: 
the payments were not sufficiently unusual or out of character for her account to have 
prompted intervention from them; 
they had done all they could reasonably do to try and recover the funds after Miss Z 
notified them she had been the victim of a scam; and 
the loss occurred from her other bank account, and from her cryptocurrency account, 
rather than her Barclays account. 
They also explained that the payments were out of the scope of the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code (CRM). This is a voluntary code that Barclays signed up to 
which is designed to help victims of APP scams be reimbursed for their losses in certain 
circumstances. Barclays said that this code didnt apply in Miss Zs case because the code is 
for payments that are sent to another person as the result of a fraud or scam  but here the 
funds were sent to a legitimate cryptocurrency account in Miss Zs name, which she set up 
and had access to. This meant the loss occurred from her cryptocurrency account when she 
sent the money on to other wallets  rather than with Barclays. They did note some service 
shortfalls in the complaints process and paid £75. 
Miss Z was not happy with Barclays response, so she complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend that Miss Zs complaint 
be upheld. They thought that the CRM didnt apply. They also thought that the payments 
were not so unusual or out of character for Miss Zs account that they should have triggered 
any action from Barclays, and agreed that Barclays took all appropriate action to recover the 
funds from the receiving bank. Miss Z didnt agree. She provided detailed further comments, 
but in summary she said that: 
the payments were unusual and out of character for her account  whilst she had 
made comparably sized payments they were to genuine retailers and far more 
spread out than these payments; 
they should have intervened sooner  she was left with an account balance of less 
than £2. And when she had previously sent larger amounts of money she had to go 
into branch to increase the security measures  despite gaps between payments and 
crystal clear destinations;
Barclays had signed up to the CRM and so were supposed to reimburse customers 
who were blameless victims of scams  which she was. She genuinely believed she 
had to help law enforcement catch criminals, and went through a great amount of 
mental distress in trying to do so, which significantly impacted her pre-existing mental 
health conditions; and 
Given her vulnerabilities, she didnt think that Barclays had met their obligations set 
out by the Financial Conduct Authority about how to treat vulnerable consumers. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to start by saying that I do believe that Miss Z was the victim of a cruel and 
callous fraud. I was so saddened to hear of what she was put through. I can tell from the 
evidence that we have that this has had a profound and significant impact on Miss Z. So, Id 
like to start by offering my sympathies for what she has been put through. 
My role here is to assess Barclays actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Barclays liable for 
Miss Zs loss. So, having considered everything, I am unable to uphold Miss Zs complaint. I 
do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss Z, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should reimburse her for the money that left her account and was later lost to the 
scammers. Ill explain why.
Whilst Barclays were signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (CRM) at the 
time of these transactions, it doesnt apply in this case. The code is designed for scam 
payments that are sent to another person from the account in question. But technically 
speaking in this case, Miss Z sent the funds from her Barclays account to herself, before 
sending them on to another person. I say this because the funds were transferred to a 
legitimate cryptocurrency account, which the Miss Z had set up and had access to, and she 
sent the funds onto the scammers from there. Whilst the scammers also had access  Miss 
Z didnt lose access to the funds until they left her cryptocurrency wallet. So Ive considered these transactions under the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time for 
banks obligations relating to authorised push payment scams that are not caught by the 
CRM. 
There is no dispute that the payments were authorised payments, even though Miss Z was 
the victim of a sophisticated scam. She made the payments herself and under the relevant 
regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss Z is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But I think Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual and out of character transactions 
or other signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial hard from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclay acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss Z, when she made the transfers to the cryptocurrency platform and on to the fraudster, 
and when she reported the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Miss Z has accepted that she authorised the transactions herself, albeit as the result of a 
sophisticated scam. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation to follow her instructions. 
But there are some situations in which they should reasonably had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding the transfers  as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Barclays should have been on the lookout of unusual and out of character 
transactions. 
So, Ive thought about whether the transfers Miss Z made was out of character and unusual. 
To decide this, I have reviewed the typical pattern of Miss Zs account usage, by reviewing 
her account history in the months prior to the scam. This is often a finely balanced matter, 
and Barclays has a difficult balance to strike in how they configure their systems to detect 
unusual activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. 
On balance, I cannot fairly say that the transactions were so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to Miss Zs normal account activity in the round and on balance, such that 
Barclays ought to have intervened. The payments for £560, £600 and £500 didnt look 
particularly unusual or out of character to me  it looked much like her typical account usage. 
There were numerous higher value transactions including a debit card payment to a retailer 
and travel agent of around £650 and £575, cash withdrawals of £2,000 on two occasions, 
and faster payments to other accounts held in her name for £1,000 and £1,100. So in terms 
of the value of the scam transactions  they would not have looked unusual or out of 
character as Miss Z had made larger transactions on the account in recent months. And 
whilst Miss Z sent funds to her other bank account, she had done this in the past and it was 
going to an account in her control, so I am not persuaded the size of the transactions was enough to say the activity ought reasonably to have put Barclays on notice that Miss Z could 
be at risk of financial harm. 
Ive considered whether there was anything else about the transactions that ought to have 
concerned Barclays. Miss Z had set up new payees and made larger payments to them prior 
to the scam  so sending money to a new payee was not unusual on the account. Miss Z 
has referred to the fact her balance went down to £1.38, but her account balance had been 
legitimately reduced as low as £5.00 in the previous months too  so this was not wholly 
unusual either. I appreciate, as Miss Z has said, the cumulative value of these payments 
across a day could require further security if she had been withdrawing it  when she 
withdrew the large sums she had to go through more security measures than she would 
have with an ATM. But I am not persuaded that this meant that Barclays should have been 
on notice that Miss Z was at risk of fraud such that it should have intervened or prevented 
her from making these payments. 
So for these reasons, I dont think that Barclays missed an opportunity to prevent the scam 
payments being made. 
With regard to recovery of funds  I think Barclays could have acted quicker in contacting the 
receiving bank. But ultimately as the funds went to Miss Zs own cryptocurrency account and 
then she sent them on to other wallets from there prior to reporting the scam, so Barclays 
reporting it to the receiving bank faster would not have made a difference. 
I appreciate Miss Z has been candid with us about her vulnerabilities, and I have thought 
about them in making this decision. But I am not persuaded that this means Barclays ought 
to have done anything differently at the time  they were not on notice that she had 
vulnerabilities that would require them to act differently. And I dont think they impinge upon 
the decision on whether or not to refund  as I do agree that the CRM does not apply and 
the payments were not unusual or out of character. 
I am truly sorry that Miss Z has lost this money, to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam. 
But for the reasons I have explained I cant fairly or reasonably ask Barclays to refund the 
money Miss Z has sadly lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Zs complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman