DRN-3137790
The complaint
Miss K, on behalf of her business (Business T), is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) 
hasnt refunded her the money she lost after falling victim to an authorised push payment 
(APP) impersonation scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our Investigator. As such, the facts are 
well-known to both parties, so I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Miss K fell victim to an HMRC impersonation scam. On 29 May 2021, she was 
contacted by phone, by a scammer who claimed to be working as a Bailiff for the 
courts. Miss K says the scammer knew her full name and address and her business 
details. The scammer advised that Miss K owed an outstanding amount in tax and if 
the amount wasnt paid, her property would be attended, and goods seized. The 
scammer also provided Miss K with their identification number, a claim reference 
number and the genuine telephone number belonging to Northampton Crown Court.
Miss K says she had changed address recently and thought she may have missed 
letters from HRMC. Miss K had also had a previous incident with Bailiffs as a result of 
bad credit. Miss K says as her business was fairly new and in a state of panic and 
under the pressure of Bailiffs attending her property made a faster payment of 
£472.16 from her Monzo account. 
After the payment, Miss K logged into her HMRC account and discovered that her tax 
hadnt been calculated yet. Miss K realised she had been scammed and reported the 
matter to Monzo straight away. 
Monzo contacted the receiving bank (the account used by the fraudster), however no 
funds remained that could be recovered.
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code). 
This is a voluntary code and while Monzo has not signed up to it, it has agreed to abide by 
the principles of the CRM Code. The CRM Code is designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. 
The circumstances where a firm may choose not to reimburse include (so far as they might 
be relevant to this complaint) where the firm can establish that: 
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning; or
 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate. 
When assessing whether it can establish these things, the firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.
Monzo investigated the matter and considered one or more of the exceptions applied, so it 
declined reimbursing Miss K. It considered Miss K made the payment without a reasonable 
basis for believing that the person or business with whom they transacted with was 
legitimate. Monzo also considered Miss K ignored a warning that was provided to her when 
making the payment.
Unhappy, Miss K referred the matter to our service.
Our Investigator looked into things and recommended the complaint be upheld. She found
Miss K had met her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In summary, she 
considered Miss K had a reasonable basis of belief when making the payment and didnt 
think Monzo had been able to establish that Miss K should not be reimbursed on the basis 
that she ignored an effective warning.
Monzo disagreed. In summary, Monzo remained of the opinion that Miss K isnt liable for a 
refund under the CRM Code because it considered:
the call Miss K had with the scammer was only around six minutes in length, with Miss K 
making the payment five minutes into the call. Monzo considers the call short, and it is 
unreasonable to expect a degree of trust to have been built between the scammer and 
Miss K in that time, that was convincing enough to result in a payment being made.
the call to Miss K was from a private number  and there was no clear indication that it 
was the HMRC calling. And while the scammer knew details about Miss K, this 
information was freely available on Companies House, and the scammer having this 
information did not constitute compelling proof that they were a representative from 
HMRC.
Miss K was not provided with any evidence with regards to the money she owed. 
Miss K logged into her HMRC account online after making the payment and found that it 
said her tax hadnt been calculated yet. Monzo considered Miss K therefore knew how to 
(and was able to) log in online to check the tax owed before sending the payment.
Miss K had said that the purported Bailiff was screaming down the phone  which isnt 
representative of how someone would reasonably expect a HMRC employee to behave.the low friction warning shown prior to the payment was directly applicable to the scam 
type, as it stated:
Could someone be trying to scam you?
Stop if: 
You were told your account is at risk, to make an unexpected payment, or to take out 
a loan
The offer sounds too good to be true
You haven't double-checked who you're paying
You were told to ignore warnings like this
had the above warning been heeded and was checked prior to payment, it is unlikely that 
Miss K would have fallen victim to the scam.
As the matter hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Miss K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss K 
lost.
The money was taken from Miss Ks current account. It is not clear how Miss K would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date it should have refunded Miss K under the CRM Code (14 June 2021) to 
the date of settlement.
Ill now set out my reasons for reaching this decision.
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. And I have also taken into consideration 
the low friction warning Monzo says Miss K would have seen when making the payment / 
transfer.
Having done so, they do not persuade me to reach a different view.  In particular, I am not 
persuaded that Miss K failed to take the requisite level of care required for Monzo to choose 
not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Miss K lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because: 
Im mindful that these types of scams are designed to generate and instil panic in 
consumers and to also apply pressure where relevant. And these types of scams are 
successful when a scammer taps into both elements.
The scammer knew information about Miss K and her business and also provided 
her with their ID number, the courts telephone number and a reference for Miss K.
Miss K had a relatively new business and has said she had recently changed 
address. Miss K has advised that because she moved address, she wasnt sure 
whether she had missed letters from the HRMC. Importantly, Miss K had also 
previously had dealings with Bailiffs attending her property resulting from some bad 
credit. So, I can understand, given those circumstances, that when Miss K was 
contacted by someone purporting to be from the courts, informed she owed an 
outstanding tax amount and that Bailiffs were going to seize goods; she panicked. 
And it is because of the wider situation, as Ive explained, that Miss K reasonably 
thought she owed the amount and, under pressure, made the payment. The panic 
the scammer instilled, and the subsequent pressure applied was fundamental to the 
scammers success. 
I note Monzos concerns about the duration of the call between the scammer and 
Miss K, that it was from a private number, there was nothing to show that Miss K 
owed anything and that it was unlikely for a Bailiff or a representative from HMRC to 
shout down the phone. But I have to take into account that these comments / findings 
are made after the scam with the benefit of hindsight, taking the time to look at what 
had happened and suggest what Miss K should have thought. Whereas in real time, 
Miss K received a call which she believed was genuine  given the ID number, 
reference number and court telephone number. And the scammer had information 
about her, explained she owed money for tax and that Bailiffs were going to take 
goods from her. Miss K having moved address, having a new business and having 
experience of Bailiffs previously, to my mind, had a reasonable basis of belief at the 
time of making the payment. 
Could Monzo have done more to prevent the scam?
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss K from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they should
provide effective warnings to their customers. The CRM Code also says that the assessment 
of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of whether
compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the scam.
I am also mindful that when Miss K made this payment, Monzo should fairly and reasonably
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).
In this case, Miss K was making an unremarkable payment. Looking at her statements and 
the type of payments she usually makes, I dont think the amount of this payment or the fact 
it was going to a new payee would have made it stand out enough for Monzo to have been
concerned that Miss K might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time that 
she made it. So, I dont think Monzo should have identified an APP scam risk in the payment
journey or that it needed to provide Miss K with an effective warning.That said, Monzo has said a low friction warning was shown. Monzo considers that the 
warning was applicable as Miss K was making an unexpected payment and she hadnt 
double checked who she was paying.
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, an effective warning must have (as a minimum)
been understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. Beyond these minimum
requirements, an effective warning must provide information that gives customers a better
chance to protect themselves against being defrauded  otherwise it could not have been an
effective warning.
Its unclear whether Monzo are saying this particular warning should be considered
an effective warning under the CRM code, but for completeness Ive considered whether it
is anyway. 
While the warning, in part, intends to warn customers about potential scams they may be at 
risk of, I find that it doesnt meet the definition of an effective warning as set out by the CRM 
Code. 
The warning highlights multiple potential scams. It doesnt mention impersonation scams 
such as HRMC scams. I dont think the warning goes far enough to bring to life what this 
type of scam looks like or highlights the common features of these types of scam. For 
example, that scammers contact consumers pretending to be from HMRC. Im also mindful 
that the warning doesnt include steps the customer could take to address the risk and to 
ensure a customer is aware of the consequences of continuing with an irrevocable payment 
 which is also a requirement of an effective warning under the CRM Code.
Though Ive concluded the warning wasnt an effective warning, Ive thought about whether
Miss K reasonably moved past it when the warning in part mentioned making an unexpected 
payment. As mentioned above, Miss K believed she was talking to someone from the courts. 
And given her new business, that she had recently changed address and thought she may 
have missed letters and had experience of Bailiffs previously  I can see why she moved 
past the warning when making the payment under pressure from the scammer.
Overall, while I appreciate that Monzo tried to give Miss K a warning in this case, Im not
persuaded the warning could be considered as effective under the terms of the CRM Code.
  
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about Monzo Bank Ltd  and I therefore require it to:
Refund the amount (£472.16) Miss K lost as a result of the scam within 28 days of 
receiving notification of her acceptance of my final decision; plus
pay additional compensation set at 8% simple interest per year  as the funds 
originated from Miss Ks business current account and it isnt known how the funds 
would have been used, and Miss K has been deprived of the use of those funds. This 
should be paid from the date Monzo Bank Ltd should have accepted Miss Ks claim 
under the CRM Code to the date of the settlement. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Monzo Bank Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Monzo Bank Ltd 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K, on behalf 
of Business T, to accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2022  
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman