DRN-1954824
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say they were mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
St Andrews Insurance Plc has taken responsibility for the sale.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy (branded Credit Care) shortly after taking out a loan in 
2001. They paid a monthly premium for the PPI which protected their loan repayments if 
Mr S couldnt work due to disability. The PPI also provided life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
St Andrews had to make Mr and Mrs S aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI. 
But Mr and Mrs S say that they dont recall taking PPI and that, if they did, they must have 
been led into believing it wasnt optional.
St Andrews has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs S signed credit agreement, which I can see 
gave the option to add PPI but suggests it wasnt taken at that stage. St Andrews internal 
records show that the PPI wasnt taken out until more than a week after the start of the loan.
St Andrews has also provided a copy of a separate direct debit instruction for the PPI and a 
PPI acceptance form setting out the monthly premium, monthly benefit, and maximum term 
of PPI cover. Mr S signed and dated it more than a week after their credit agreement was 
dated.
Based on this, and from experience of St Andrews sales practices at the time, I think its 
likely Mr and Mrs S were sent some documents about PPI after the loan was taken out. And, 
as the loan had already been taken out, I dont think Mr and Mrs S can reasonably have 
thought that they had to have the PPI to get the loan or that the PPI was part and parcel of it.
So, I think its likely St Andrews made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice about 
the PPI. And that they chose to take it out, knowing they didnt have to.
Given how the PPI was sold, Im satisfied St Andrews didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs S. This meant that, although St Andrews didnt have to make sure the PPI was right for 
them, it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information they needed to decide for 
themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. I note he says 
he was self-employed but that didnt make it materially more difficult for him to claim on the 
policy.
I dont think Mr and Mrs S had any other significant means of making the loan repayments if 
Mr S was off work due to accident or sickness. So, the PPI would have been useful for them 
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable for them. Overall, I think 
theyd have seen the PPI as providing them with useful protection. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs S have said about having other PPI complaints upheld. But 
I cant comment on those sales. Instead, my roles to determine whether this PPI policy was 
mis-sold and, if so, whether Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result. Taking everything into 
account, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because of how St Andrews sold them the 
PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman