DRN-3403497
The complaint
Mr B complains that The IPS Partnership plc trading as James Hay Partnership (IPS) didnt 
undertake sufficient due diligence in relation to the Harlequin investment he made and, as a 
result, his pension has suffered significant losses. 
What happened
Mr B took out the IPS SIPP in early 2007. TBO investments ltd (TBO) was appointed as 
Mr Bs adviser in respect of his SIPP.
Mr Bs SIPP application form confirmed that the appointed adviser could make instructions 
on his behalf. The application form was signed on 1 March 2007. 
On 2 October 2008, the then regulator took disciplinary action against TBO. It was fined 
£28,000:
The FSA imposed a financial penalty of £28,000 on TBO for failure to establish and 
maintain effective systems and controls to: clearly document the explanation of the 
risks of transactions to clients; make and retain records that demonstrate the 
suitability of its advice; and ensure that its business is conducted in accordance with 
FSA requirements. TBO have agreed to undertake a risk-based past business review 
of customer files and to take remedial action where necessary.
TBO breached Principle 3 (Management and Control) as the Firm: (i) inadequately 
supervised and monitor staff providing advice to customers; (ii) failed to record both 
the information provided by customers and the reasons for recommending products; 
(iii) had inadequate systems and controls in place in relation to trust signatures; and 
(iv) acting outside of its regulatory permission in one instance. TBO breached 
Principle 9 (Customers: relationships of trust) by failing to obtain and retain sufficient 
information about customers personal and financial circumstances and investment 
objectives. Furthermore, the suitability letters issued by TBO did not contain 
appropriate explanations of the risks associated with the transaction.
On 15 July 2009, Mr B emailed his independent financial adviser (IFA) after attending a 
Harlequin presentation. In summary, he said: 
He was impressed with the St Lucia presentation run by Harlequin
There were lots of people in attendance including the prime minister of St Lucia
Comprehensive answers were provided to questions raised
He wanted to discuss how to make the investment via his SIPP
Mr B emailed his IFA on 29 July 2019, he said: 
Updated paperwork attached: 
1. Spreadsheet showing how funding would work in the SIPP  look at 4 bed 
villa. Everything works except 70% LTV, which is close and I think the 
assumptions are conservative. (Price will go up by 15% this week-end - 
£430K -> £495K) so we only need 7% p.a to get to the target value at 
completion. Given we are buying off plan at an early stage the price is 
definitely below market value (I think by 25% plus), added to the fact that 
property values in the Caribbean seem to go up 10% p.a and also St. Lucia is 
currently well below others e.g Barbados I think we will be OK. Current 
comparables seem well above this. 
2. Draft Contract in case you need to send to the SIPP people. There are some 
clauses I will be negotiating on, but most look OK. Note in particular the 
interest on the stage payments is capped at 12/18 months. 
3. Reservation form  see page 7 for SIPP details. Grateful if you could check is 
OK.
4. Could you please confirm we can do this in the SIPP. All the advice I have 
received so far says I can and I cannot believe they would issue a SIPP form 
without being fairly certain this is the case. 
The deal is that Harlequin will arrange a loan for the 30% deposit unless we can 
arrange a better loan. Do you have any thoughts on alternative sources or loans to 
SIPPs. Security would have to be the assets in the SIPP. Presumably this is why the 
max loan is 50%. 
Harlequin will also fund the stage payments (no further security required) and add the 
interest to the final bill. Upon completion we take out a 70% LTV mortgage and use 
this to pay back the initial loan and the rest of the purchase price. The risk is that the 
value of the property has not increased sufficiently and we need to generate more 
funds from the SIPP. The alternative to this is to flip the property prior to completion.  
On 31 July 2009, Mr B signed an IPS property questionnaire, this confirmed details of the 
property including how the property purchase was intended to be funded. 
Mr B wrote to the solicitors assisting with the property purchase on 20 August 2009 
enclosing several documents within the letter he confirmed TBO was advising him on the 
transaction and liaising with IPS. 
On 29 September 2009, the solicitors provided their report to both IPS and Mr B on title and 
contract in relation to the Harlequin Marquis Estate investment. The report goes through the 
terms of the purchase/investment in some detail and highlights some risks. The report 
concludes: 
To ensure that you will eventually have good title to the land you are purchasing, the 
Seller named in your contract should be the legal owner of that land and therefore 
have the right to sell it to you. 
You will note from my report that legal title of the land has yet to be transferred to 
Dave Ames or his nominee Company. As previously stated, we are advised that a 
Company called Harlequin Resorts (St Lucia) Limited will ultimately take ownership 
of the land. Completion of that purchase to the Seller is now imminent given that both 
Preliminary Planning Approval has been obtained and the issue of an Alien Licence 
has been approved (though not yet issued). With any investment there is an element of risk and you must therefore decide 
whether you wish to proceed on the basis of the current information available and in 
particular whether potential returns outweigh the potential risks.
The solicitors report also confirmed that under the agreement if the Alien License (allowing 
foreigners to purchase land in St Lucia) isnt granted the agreement will terminate and the 
deposit will be returned. 
On 23 November 2009, Mr B wrote to his IFA with his thoughts on what to liquidate within 
the SIPP to fund the 30% deposit for Harlequin. The IFA responded confirming he agreed 
with Mr Bs thoughts and confirming he would call shortly. 
On 7 December 2009, TBO wrote to IPS enclosing the Harlequin contracts. And the 
investment was made on 23 December 2009. 
The investment subsequently failed and is now worthless. 
Background to the complaint 
Mr B complained to IPS, it didnt uphold his complaint. Unhappy with its response Mr B 
referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. 
In summary he found: 
It wasnt unreasonable for IPS to accept business from TBO (even after the 
disciplinary action taken by the then regulator) and it could reasonably take comfort 
in the involvement of a regulated IFA.
It ought to have undertaken further due diligence on Harlequin, in part due to the 
guarantees offered and lack of apparent basis for these, but even if it had and this 
resulted in it providing additional warnings to Mr B or it refusing to accept the 
investments, Mr B would still have gone ahead with the investment. 
Ive read and considered the submissions that both parties to the complaint have made in 
their entirety, here, Ive just included a brief summary of what I consider to be the key points. 
Mr B didnt accept the investigators view and made further submissions, in summary he 
said: 
Its not reasonable that the investigator concluded that IPS shouldve undertaken 
more due diligence on the underlying Harlequin investment but hes being held 
responsible for the consequences of this. 
In its dealings with him IPS breached Principles for Business 6,7,9 and 10. 
He initially engaged the services of TBO in 2004, before any disciplinary action had 
been taken against them. TBOs recommendation of the IPS SIPP took place in 
2007, which also predates the action.
IPS ought to have advised him of any concerns relating to his adviser and increased 
its due diligence on any investments proposals submitted by TBO.
He could only proceed with his investment in Harlequin within the SIPP as he didnt 
have the funds to do so outwith it and it was only beneficial to make the investment 
via his pension.
The solicitors were employed solely to check on the property purchase and title to 
land. Harlequin investment made up only 31% (£129,000) of his SIPP (although that 
amount was just the deposit  overall purchase price £430,000) 
He invested in Ethical Forestry some two years after he invested in Harlequin and the 
amount invested was much smaller. He wouldnt have gone ahead with the Harlequin 
investment if it hadnt been allowed by IPS. 
As part of our investigation we asked IPS for details of all of the business it accepted from 
TBO. We also asked Mr B for details of how he intended to fund the property purchase upon 
completion. 
IPS confirmed that TBO were appointed advisers in respect of four SIPPs in total, including 
Mr Bs and that Mr B was the only one invested in Harlequin. 
Mr B confirmed that the plan for covering the balance of the property price on completion 
was for the SIPP to take out a loan. The spreadsheet included in the IPS property 
questionnaire completed at the point of sale included details of the plan. He also reiterated 
that he could only have gone ahead with this investment via his SIPP. If IPS had undertaken 
proper due diligence and informed him of its misgivings and/or not allowed the investment, 
he wouldnt and couldnt have gone ahead with the Harlequin investment. 
I sent Mr B and IPS my provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I said I would consider anything either party wanted to add. IPS didnt 
have anything further to add. Mr B disagreed with my findings and made some further 
submissions. Ive considered these submissions in their entirety, here Ive included a 
summary of what I consider to be the key points. Briefly, he said: 
His investment shouldve been considered unusual business; it was the only such 
investment proposed by TBO, it was a large investment considering the size of the 
SIPP, it was a high-risk esoteric investment and had similarities with timeshare 
investments the problems with which IPS wouldve been aware of and it hadnt been 
independently valued.
Its accepted that IPS shouldve carried out proper due diligence and its not just 
matter of whether or not it shouldve accepted the investment. Consideration needs 
to be given to the process shouldve been followed, how things shouldve progressed 
and how long it wouldve taken. He reiterated the above concerns about Harlequin in 
relation to investment due diligence.
The entire value of the SIPP wouldve been required to support the financing 
arrangement [upon completion]. 
There is a strong argument on this basis that IPS shouldnt have accepted the 
investment. Even if it did consider accepting the investment it shouldve undertaken 
further investigations. 
Had it done so, it wouldve discovered that TBO hadnt supplied a suitability report or 
undertaken a risk assessment. 
If IPS had undertaken proper due diligence, this wouldve taken time and he wouldve 
missed the deadline of 25 December 2009. Had this happened the investment 
opportunity wouldve fallen away, or the price wouldve increased, and he wouldnt 
have been able to proceed. 
Despite the failure of Harlequin, IPS has continued to charge him an additional 
administration fee for it. 
TBO had a complaint about it upheld by the service, which further points to flaws in 
its process. And further supports the contention that IPS shouldve been cautious of 
accepting business from it. 
Because Mr B disagreed, this case has been passed back to me for review. Ive carefully considered everything Mr Bs said and reconsidered all of the available evidence in this 
case. Having done so, my findings remain as set out in my provisional decision, Ive largely 
reiterated these below. Where appropriate, Ive made further comments to address the 
additional points raised by Mr B.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision isnt to 
address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be the 
main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
At the time Mr Bs application form was accepted by IPS the regulator was the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA). Later, the regulator became the FCA. For ease of reference, 
outwith quotations, Ive referred to the FCA throughout. 
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles 
for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G). Principles 2, 3 
and 6 provide:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general 
notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high level Principles which find expression in 
the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it wouldve refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found Berkeley 
Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated its client 
fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL):
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And, Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court and, on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case. I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. And, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the Principles 
to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no consideration to the 
application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So, neither of the judgments say anything 
about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of a complaint. But, to be 
clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration at all. As noted above, Ive 
taken account of both judgments when making this decision on Mr Bs case.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain Principles, and that this 
rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that Options 
SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, was 
actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected this 
claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts of 
Mr Adams case.
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different 
to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal didnt 
so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS 
claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case 
would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at paragraph 
148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
I note that there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by 
Mr Adams and the issues in Mr Bs complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 
120 of the Court of Appeal judgment. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to 
consider the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. The facts of the case were also different. And I need to construe 
the duties IPS owed to Mr B under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Bs case. 
In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted 
that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution-only basis i.e. without any 
advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. In contrast to that, the transaction 
between Mr B and IPS proceeded on the footing that Mr B was being advised by an 
authorised advisor. Also, in this case, the SIPP was set up years before the investment 
complained about (Harlequin) was made.
So, Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R  alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, 
and within the factual context of Mr Bs case, including IPS role in the transaction.  
However, I think its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, as above, Im required to take into account relevant considerations which 
include: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the 
judgments in Adams v Options SIPP. That was a legal claim which was defined by the 
formal pleadings in Mr Adams statement of case.  
I also want to emphasise here that I dont say that IPS was under any obligation to advise 
Mr B on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. 
Overall, I am satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration  but that it needs to be 
considered alongside the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual 
context of Mr Bs case.
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged 
to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member 
of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of 
Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.

We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the members to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers interests in this respect, with 
reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that 
they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give 
advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can 
be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together 
with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to 
seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is 
concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and 
analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons 
for this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 
6 and treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a 
SIPP operators responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF 
consumer outcomes.The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members 
and SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, 
nor its approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled 
firms and have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear 
on the FCA website listings for un-authorised business warnings. 
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of 
the firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, 
the levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of 
investments they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. 
Being satisfied that they are appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small 
or large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares 
which may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate 
clarification, for example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it 
has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation 
rights and the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: 
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications 
and skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax-relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications, to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered them in their entirety. 
I acknowledge that the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal 
guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and 
Dear CEO letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and produce the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, the 
publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im, therefore, satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.
Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to good industry practice in the BBSAL case, 
the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a long way to 
clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the judge in 
BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that the publications post-date 
the events that took place in relation to Mr Bs complaint, mean that the examples of good 
practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant events. Although the 
later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, the Principles 
that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the 
Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, Ill only consider IPS 
actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance gave non-
exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions given were the limit 
of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO letter notes, what should 
be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the circumstances. 
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Bs investment in 
Harlequin, IPS complied with its regulatory obligations to act with due skill, care and 
diligence, to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, 
to pay due regard to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications 
listed above to provide an indication of what IPS couldve done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and duties.
In this case, the business IPS was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied that 
meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice observed by the 
FSA and, later, FCA during its work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis, that introducers that advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice theyre providing and undertaking sufficient due diligence on 
any investments it was accepting into the SIPP.
Was it fair and reasonable for IPS to accept the introduction from TBO?
Its not clear based on the submissions provided what due diligence IPS undertook in 
respect of TBO. So, Ive considered what IPS wouldve or couldve discovered had it fulfilled 
its obligations in line with the relevant considerations outlined above and what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I think IPS could generally take comfort in the involvement of a UK based regulated IFA with 
the appropriate permissions. 
In 2008, the regulator reviewed TBOs business and took disciplinary action, Ive set out the 
details of the findings of the regulator in the background to this complaint. The primary 
concerns highlighted appear to have been failings to: 
Clearly document the explanation of the risks of transactions to clients;
Make and retain records that demonstrate the suitability of its advice; and 
Ensure that its business is conducted in accordance with FSA requirements.
The SIPP application was accepted prior to disciplinary action taken against the IFA  at 
which stage Im not persuaded IPS ought to have had concerns about accepting business 
from TBO  but the investment in Harlequin came after. So, Ive thought about whether or 
not this ought to have led to IPS refusing to accept business from TBO and/or if any further 
steps shouldve been undertaken in light of the disciplinary action. 
I dont think it would be reasonable to say that IPS shouldnt have accepted any business 
from TBO given that they remained authorised with relevant permissions. The regulator 
didnt stop it from continuing to operate in the market or restrict the business it could 
undertake. So, I dont think I could reasonably conclude that IPS shouldnt have accepted 
any business from it at all. 
Its arguable that it shouldve been particularly alert to the risk of receiving unsuitable 
business from this IFA. Equally, IPS shouldve been particularly mindful of the volume and 
nature of business it received from TBO in light of the regulators findings  but, I asked IPS 
for details of all the business it accepted from TBO and Im not persuaded that it ought to 
have been concerned. Only three other IPS clients had TBO appointed as their adviser. 
None of the other clients invested in Harlequin.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs additional comments about IPS acceptance of this business 
from TBO. I understand he believes that IPS ought to have undertaken further investigations 
prior to accepting this business from TBO. I dont think, in this instance, this one investment 
in Harlequin was enough to raise significant concern. To be clear, there may have been 
some issues with TBOs process  but, in relation to this complaint, I need to consider what 
conclusions IPS out to have reached based on what it knew. Or, ought reasonably to have 
discovered, had it undertaken sufficient due diligence in line with its obligations. 
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded that IPS ought reasonably 
to have refused to accept the introduction of the investment in Harlequin from TBO. Was it fair and reasonable for IPS to allow Mr Bs investment in Harlequin?
I think IPS had to undertake sufficient due diligence on the investment in line with the 
relevant considerations set out at the outset of my findings. I havent seen enough to 
conclude it did fulfil its obligations in relation to this. Indeed, based on IPS submissions, it 
doesnt think it had to do anything at the time beyond establishing that the investment was 
capable of being held within a SIPP and wasnt a scam. 
IPS did require Mr B to complete a property questionnaire, amongst other things, this helped 
establish:
Details of the particular property Mr B was looking to purchase
Details as to how the pension scheme would fund the purchase of the property
Details of the solicitor who would act for the pension scheme
Details of the pension scheme borrowing
And highlights for example: 
Please remember that any new borrowing will be restricted to 50% of the current net 
fund value of the pension scheme, i.e. less the total amount of any existing loans. 
Please refer to the relevant section of our Property Guidance Notes, or contact IPS 
there is any query.
This along with the solicitors report wouldve provided IPS with some assurances, including 
that Mr B was aware of the need for further funding and had a plan in place for this. And, that 
clear plans were in place to obtain proper title to the land. But I dont think this went far 
enough particularly in terms due diligence in respect of the investment itself. 
Having found that IPS failed to undertake sufficient due diligence in respect of Harlequin, Ive 
gone on to consider what conclusions IPS ought to have reached had it undertaken sufficient 
due diligence. 
Harlequin is one of the more well-known UCIS investments and the problems its faced are 
well known to us and widely publicised in the financial press. When considering whether or 
not IPS shouldve accepted the Harlequin investment in Mr Bs SIPP, I can only take into 
account what was known/could reasonably have been discovered at the time of Mr Bs 
investment. 
Harlequin was a property investment. Investing in property wasnt in principle unusual or 
novel at the time. Although investing in it in this way  due to the nature and structure of the 
investment  was very high risk. The investment Mr B made was offshore and off-plan. 
The solicitors report confirmed  purchase of the land was agreed, planning permission had 
been granted and the Alien License had been agreed but not yet issued. And, we know from 
what subsequently happened that Harlequin did acquire title to the land. 
Ive also considered whether or not there was any information available in the public domain 
at the time that ought to have given IPS cause for concern. At the time Mr B invested 
Harlequin investments had been available for around a couple of years and was already 
developing other resorts. They appeared to have garnered the support of local politicians in 
resort destinations and received endorsements. Ive not seen any evidence that there were 
credible causes for concern being voiced in the public domain at that time. Its clear Mr B was keen to make the investment at the time having attended a presentation 
about Harlequin. Based on his correspondence with TBO, I think he had a good 
understanding of how the investment was intended to operate. Mr B clearly understood that 
he was just paying a 30% deposit for the property, with a portion of his SIPP, and that the 
balance would be due upon completion  which he intended to utilise the remaining value of 
his SIPP to fund. Based on the contemporaneous correspondence, Mr B also appears to 
have considered potential options and had a plan in place for funding the balance. 
I appreciate what Mr Bs said about our finding that IPS ought to have undertaken more due 
diligence on the Harlequin investment meaning that the complaint is/should be upheld. 
However, having found that IPS ought to have done more, I have to consider what wouldve 
happened had it done what I think it ought to have done. In this instance, I havent seen 
enough to conclude that  if IPS had undertaken sufficient due diligence  it ought 
reasonably to have concluded that it shouldnt accept this investment in under the 
circumstances. 
To be clear, I make this finding in relation to the specific circumstances of this complaint, the 
particular Harlequin property Mr B invested in and at the time that he did. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr B said that if IPS had undertaken proper due 
diligence, the process wouldve taken longer. And, he wouldve missed Harlequins deadline 
and the price of the property wouldve increased. He says this wouldve resulted in the 
investment not going ahead. I concluded that IPS shouldve done more to have undertaken 
proper due diligence. But I didnt think I could fairly and reasonably conclude that IPS ought 
to have refused to accept business from TBO or not allowed the investment in Harlequin. 
Mr Bs investment went ahead just days before the deadline hes referenced. I dont know 
what wouldve happened if the process had taken longer than it did in the event. I accept a 
delay couldve caused problems with the investment going ahead if, for example, the price of 
the property was significantly increased, as Mr B suggests. As is, the process did take some 
time, around five months. So, if IPS had undertaken sufficient due diligence, I think it would 
likely have had time to do this without further delay. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that I could reasonably conclude that, if 
IPS had undertaken proper due diligence, it wouldve taken much longer for the process to 
be completed and that this wouldve resulted in the investment not going ahead.  
I do understand that this will come as a disappointment Mr B. As I set out in my provisional 
decision, I hope Mr B understands that my findings are in no way intended to diminish the 
significance of the loss Mr Bs suffered or the impact this will likely have had on him 
personally. Mr Bs lost a very substantial amount of money from his pension provision. I 
sympathise with his position, but Im not persuaded that the losses hes suffered are as a 
result of any failings on IPS part relating to the due diligence it undertook in relation to his 
IFA or the Harlequin investment he made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman