DRN-1000533
complaint
Miss N says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss N bought the policy when she took out a loan in March 2004. The loan was taken out 
during a meeting and included an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss N didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Nationwide made Miss N aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it out. Nationwide has given us a copy of Miss Ns credit agreement from 
the time of sale. Looking at the credit agreement, I can see the PPI is described as Optional 
Credit Insurance. It also shows that the cost of the PPI is set out separately to the cost of 
the loan.
While the credit agreement didnt ask Miss N to select whether or not she wanted the PPI, I 
dont think this means that she wasnt given a choice about taking it out. Looking at the 
information set out in the credit agreement, including the details of the benefits selected, I 
think its most likely that the selection came about following a discussion between Miss N 
and Nationwide. Overall, I think its more likely than not Miss N would have understood the 
PPI was optional. And I dont think she would have signed the credit agreement if she didnt 
want to take it out alongside the loan.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Miss N, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss N got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
 
 
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium and the total cost. So I think Miss N would have understood how 
much the PPI would cost if she kept the policy for its full term. Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Miss N made a successful claim she could have got back quite a 
bit more than she paid for it. 
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Miss N 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things  Miss N was in good health 
and working at the time. 
Miss N has told us she wouldve received six months full pay followed by six months half pay 
from her employer if she was too unwell to work. She says this shows that she didnt need 
the PPI as her existing work benefits were very good. Having thought about what Miss N has 
said about her sick pay, I dont think this means she wouldnt have found the policy useful. I 
say this because the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss N wouldve 
received from her employer and wouldve paid out for up to 12 months. The PPI also 
wouldve paid a benefit if Miss N was ever made redundant. So overall, I think Miss N could 
have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and I dont think that any better 
information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Ive also thought about what Miss N has said about the fact that she could have relied on her 
partner to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While Miss Ns partner would want to help, their financial situation could 
change and so this help couldnt always be relied on. So this doesnt change my decision.
So based on what Ive said above, I dont think that any better information would have put 
her off from taking out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman