DRN-3211966
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as MINI Financial Services 
(who Ill refer to as MFS) gave him a final settlement figure due under his hire purchase 
agreement but then later took out a direct debit payment.
What happened
In September 2017, Mr M acquired a new car which was financed with a hire purchase 
agreement. The agreement was for 48 months with a monthly repayment figure of £349.37.
In April 2021, Mr M traded in the car for a new car. In order to do this, Mr M was provided a 
settlement figure of £10,051.03 on 28 April 2021, which Mr M says he paid on the same day 
via the dealership to MFS.
 
On 4 May 2021, Mr M was surprised to see a direct debit for £349.37 was taken from his 
account. Mr M contacted MFS to say this payment had been taken incorrectly as hed 
already paid the final settlement amount in April 2021.
MFS issued a final response letter explaining that it is standard for any direct debit to be 
called for three working days in advance of the payment being due. As Mr Ms May payment 
fell due on 2 May 2021 (which was a Sunday) the payment had started to be called on 28 
April 2021 (the day the final settlement figure was provided and paid by Mr M). And once this 
process has happened, its not something that MFS can reverse or stop. MFS also said this 
was why the settlement figure was what it was  because it factored in the May 2021 
monthly repayment. MFS confirmed the monthly repayments are paid in arrears, so the 
payment Mr M made in May 2021 was for his usage of the car in April. Its for these reasons 
MFS didnt refund the monthly payment of £349.37 Mr M made in May 2021.
Our Investigator looked into Mr Ms concerns. In summary, he said MFS sent Mr M a letter 
explaining that the direct debit payment for May 2021 would have still been due. And that as 
this payment had been taken into account when the settlement quote was calculated, he 
couldnt reasonably say MFS had done anything wrong in collecting this payment. Our 
Investigator provided Mr M with a copy of the letter he referred to in his view.
Mr M disagreed with our Investigators view. He said he never saw the letter that our 
Investigator said MFS sent him. Mr M acknowledged it may have been sent to the 
dealership, but he never received a copy of this letter. Mr M said he was told by the 
dealership that he wouldnt need to make the May 2021 monthly payment and that this same 
dealership offered him a free first service on his new car  so something clearly went wrong.
 Mr M also provided us with an email he sent to the dealership where he questioned the 
amount he received when part-exchanging his car as he felt he wasnt getting a good deal. 
Mr M said this was because he had to pay the May 2021 direct debit. So, instead of the 
£728.48 Mr M received as the part exchange amount, in reality, Mr M says he actually only 
ended up with £379.11 as he had to pay the May 2021 direct debit of £349.37. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MFS explanation for why Mr M paid the direct debit payment for May, was because they call 
for direct debits three working days prior to it being due. Mr Ms May direct debit was called 
on 28 April 2021, which was the same day the final settlement figure was processed and 
provided to the dealership. MFS say they sent Mr M a letter explaining the final settlement 
amount and what this meant for him. Ive had a read of the letter and can see the first 
paragraph explains:
Further to your request for a settlement figure on your agreement, please see the figures 
below. This quotation is valid for settlement until 26 May 2021 (the Settlement Date). It 
assumes any monthly repayment which we are currently processing will still be paid (in 
addition to the settlement figure). If a repayment is due within the next 5 days, please do not 
cancel your direct debit as this payment will be required for the settlement to be valid. 
The letter then goes on to explain the settlement figure has been calculated by assuming 
any monthly repayments which MFS were processing at the time will still be paid (in addition 
to the settlement figure). And that this will be paid within the period up to and including the 
settlement date and is included in the settlement figure. 
I appreciate Mr Ms concerns and frustrations in still having to pay the May direct debit, 
despite already making the final settlement payment. However, having thought about MFS 
explanation alongside the letter, I dont think MFS have done anything wrong. I say this 
because I think its more likely than not the final settlement amount of £10,051.03 factored in 
the May 2021 direct debit. So, I dont think I can fairly require MFS to refund the direct debit 
payment Mr M made in May 2021.
Mr M says he never received this letter, nor did he ever see a copy of it. Mr M says all 
communications came via the dealership he bought this car from. And that he was told by 
the dealership that he wouldnt need to make the May 2021 monthly payment
Having looked at the letter, I can see its addressed to Mr M. However, MFS internal notes 
show that the settlement quote was processed on 28 April 2021 and given to the dealership. 
While I cant say for certain what happened, its possible this letter went to the dealership for 
them to give to Mr M. I say this because Mr M acknowledges this could have possibly been 
the case but also because Mr M confirmed all his communication was via the dealership, 
including paying the final settlement through them, rather than to MFS directly. But I dont 
think I can fairly hold MFS responsible for this  MFS made clear in their letter that any 
monthly repayments they are currently processing would still be paid. 
In any case, on balance, I dont think the part exchange figure calculated for Mr Ms previous 
car was dependent on what he owed for the May direct debit. While I think theres a 
possibility things could have been made clearer to Mr M, I dont think its likely Mr M would 
have done anything different about trading in the car for a new one.
With that said, on balance, I think its likely the issue has arisen as a result of the 
dealerships actions, not the finance companys - MFS. The dealership are a separate entity 
to the finance company and there are only certain instances in which I can hold the finance 
company responsible for what the dealership did or didnt do. I note the dealership have told 
Mr M that they will give him a free service on his new car when he raised his concerns to 
them about the May direct debit still being paid. And that he felt he wasnt receiving a fair 
deal for the part exchange amount. Having done some research, a service on the car Mr M has can be anywhere up to £500 (depending on the type of service). I think this remedy 
seems fair in the round.
Ultimately, I think the final settlement quote was calculated on a fair and reasonable basis 
and I dont require MFS to refund Mr M the May 2021 direct debit payment.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman