DRN-3856819
The complaint
Mr B and Mr B complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited declined a claim and 
voided their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mr B had a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA, which covered their home 
and its contents. They bought the policy in August 2021. They made a claim after a laptop 
was accidentally damaged. RSA declined the claim and voided the policy.
They said Mr B and Mr B had made a misrepresentation when theyd bought the policy. Mr B 
and Mr B were asked to answer a question about the number and value of any previous 
losses or claims. They said there had been three previous claims  the most recent in 
November 2020  but the claim value was zero for all three claims.
RSA said when theyd assessed the claim, theyd found this to be untrue. Each of the three 
previous claims, they said, had been settled and the claim value in each case was more than 
zero.
RSA said this was a careless misrepresentation in line with the terms of Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure & Representations) Act (CIDRA). They also said they would not have 
offered cover at all had they known the full facts about the previous claims. And so, they 
were entitled to decline the claim, void the policy and return the premiums.
Mr B and Mr B complained to RSA, but they maintained that their decision to decline the 
claim and void the policy was correct. So, Mr B and Mr B brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
RSA had treated Mr B and Mr B fairly because the question Mr B and Mr B had been asked 
when they bought the policy wasnt sufficiently clear.
He said RSA should reinstate the policy and handle the claim. If Mr B and Mr B had bought a 
policy elsewhere and didnt want to move back to RSA, then RSA should pay Mr B and Mr B 
the difference in the premiums. And if Mr B and Mr B had already had the laptop fixed, RSA 
should reimburse them for the cost of the repair. 
He also asked RSA to remove any record of the policy voidance and pay Mr B and Mr B 
£100 in compensation for their trouble and upset.
RSA disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no real dispute about the facts of this case. Mr B and Mr B bought the policy on-line. 
As part of the application, they were asked to declare any losses or claims in the previous 
five years. Mr B and Mr B listed the three claims theyd made in that time period. Theres no 
suggestion there was any mistake in the dates or types of the claims. All were for accidental 
damage to various items. And they were made in September 2019, February 2020 and 
November 2020.
The only bone of contention is about the final column in the table of previous claims that 
Mr B and Mr B were asked to fill in. This is headed claim amount. Mr B and Mr B said the 
claim amount for all three claims was £0.00. RSA found that the claims were settled by 
repairs being carried out by the previous insurer. This, they says means the claim amount 
is not zero.
Mr B and Mr B say they honestly disclosed all of their claims  which suggests they were not 
attempting to deceive RSA in any way. And they say they entered £0.00 in the final column 
because they received no money in settlement of the claim.
RSA havent suggested to us that there were any notes or guidance on or with the on-line 
application form to clarify what they meant by claim amount. That begin the case, I agree 
without investigator that the question being asked of Mr B and Mr B when they completed 
this section of the form wasnt entirely clear. 
On balance, I dont believe its unreasonable, when confronted with a column headed claim 
amount and a box to fill in that is formatted to accept values in pounds and pence, to 
assume that youre being asked whether you received money in settlement of the claim  
and if so, how much.
It's worth noting that in their correspondence on this case, RSA refer on occasion to claim 
value as the thing they were intending Mr B and Mr B to disclose. Its arguable that if that 
were the term used in the heading of the column in the box on the application form, it may be 
clearer to applicants that RSA want the value of any repairs carried out as well as any actual 
money paid over by the insurer. Although even then, it might be better to have some 
explanatory notes or guidance to advise the applicant what information exactly RSA are 
seeking.
But as things stand in this case, on balance I dont think its fair to conclude that Mr B and 
Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA when buying their policy. And that 
being the case, I cant conclude that it was fair and reasonable for RSA to void the policy 
and decline the claim. 
Putting things right
Given that I dont think Mr B and Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, I 
agree with our investigator about what needs to be done to put things right.
RSA must reinstate the policy if thats what Mr B and Mr B want. And to absolutely clear, if 
theyve obtained insurance elsewhere in the meantime, RSA should reimburse them the 
premiums theyve paid and pay any cancellation fee incurred.
If Mr B and Mr B wish to stay with their current insurer, and their current premiums are more 
expensive, RSA should reimburse them the difference in the cost of the premiums.
RSA must also consider the claim, in line with the remaining terms of the policy at the 
applicable time. 
If the claim is then accepted, RSA must pay for repairs or replacement (as per the policy 
terms). And if the claim is accepted and Mr B and Mr B have already had the laptop fixed or replaced, RSA must reimburse them - on receipt of an invoice or other acceptable proof of 
payment.
RSA must also pay Mr B and Mr B £100 in compensation for the distress and worry caused 
by RSAs decision to void the policy. And they must ensure that any record of the voidance 
is removed from the Claims & Underwriting Exchange (CUE) database and from any other 
shared or internal database. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr B and Mr Bs complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must:
reinstate the policy, if Mr B and Mr B wish, reimbursing Mr B and Mr B for any 
premiums theyve paid to another insurer and/or cancellation fees relating to any new 
policy; or
if Mr B and Mr B wish to stay with any current insurer, pay Mr B and Mr B the 
difference in premiums, if the insurance theyve bought elsewhere is more expensive; 
and 
consider the claim for damage to the laptop, in line with the RSA policy terms; and
if that claim is accepted, pay for repairs or replacement of the laptop, as per the 
terms of the RSA policy; or
if Mr B and Mr B have already had repairs carried out or replaced the laptop, 
reimburse them the cost of doing so, on receipt of acceptable proof of payment; and
remove any record of the policy voidance on CUE and any other databases; and
pay Mr B and Mr B £100 in compensation for their trouble and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman