DRN-2333051
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car supplied with finance from Hyundai Capital UK Limited trading as 
Kia Finance wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2018 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a personal loan agreement with 
Kia Finance.
Within the first three months, Mr B experienced issues with the stop/start system. The car 
was also making a noise and wasnt achieving the MPG Mr B had hoped for.
Mr B complained about these issues in October 2018. He subsequently took the car to a 
local garage for repairs because the supplying dealer was around 200 miles away. The turbo 
was replaced, and the stop/start function was repaired. 
Mr B continued to experience juddering and a grinding noise. He reported this to Kia Finance 
and obtained a diagnostic report which showed that this was due to problems with the clutch. 
Kia Finance asked Mr B to send the report to them and (following some technical difficulties) 
the report was received by Kia in March 2019. Kia said it would re-open the complaint on the 
basis of the report and tried to contact Mr B for his authorisation for the gearbox to be 
removed so the clutch could be fully inspected. Kia said it didnt hear back from Mr B so it 
closed the complaint for lack of contact.
Mr B says that during this time his phone was broken. He thinks that Kia should have written 
to him when he didnt respond to calls.
Since referring his complaint to this service, the car has been involved in an accident and 
was written off. Mr B received a payment of £5600 from his insurance company.
Mr B initially wanted to reject the car but since it no longer exists, he wants Kia to 
compensate him for the time he spent taking the car to and from the garage for repairs.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Kia had made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr B by phone and letter after it received the diagnostic report. She also said that 
although Mr B was unhappy with the MPG, there were several factors which could influence 
this. The investigator also said that although Mr B had taken the car to the garage for 
repairs, hed been provided with a courtesy car each time so she didnt think it was fair to 
ask Kia to pay compensation.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed had to take time off work to return the car to the garage and 
that hed only achieved 45 MPG when the car had been advertised as achieving 64 MPG.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, a car must be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of 
satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking 
into account all of the relevant circumstances such as  amongst other things  the age and 
mileage of the car and the price paid.
Where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that the fault was present at 
the point of supply. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. If the repair 
isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
In this case, I can see that Mr B reported the fault with the start/stop system within the first 6 
months. I can also see that repairs were carried out. Theres nothing to suggest that the 
start/stop issue wasnt resolved by the repairs, so I think the repair was successful.
Mr B has said that he continued to experience noises coming from the car. Theres nothing 
to suggest that these noises were related to the stop/start system. The diagnostic report 
obtained by Mr B suggest that the noises might be related to the clutch.
I can see that Kia accepted the report and asked to investigate further. But it was unable to 
get a response from Mr B and after several months it closed the complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B has said that his phone was broken during this time. But I can see that 
Kia also wrote to Mr B. The letter was correctly addressed and Ive no reason to think that Mr 
B didnt receive it. Even if Mr B didnt receive the letter, I think he ought reasonably to have 
contacted Kia, given that several weeks had passed since he provided the report. In the 
circumstances, I think Kia acted reasonably by trying to contact Mr B by phone and letter.
Because the car wasnt inspected, I cant be certain of whether there was a fault with the 
clutch or not. So Im unable to say whether Kia would have been responsible. There isnt 
enough information for me to be able to conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality or 
that Kia should have accepted a rejection.
I appreciate that the issues with the car caused Mr B to have to return to the garage several 
times and I understand that this will have caused a degree of inconvenience. However, cars 
can go wrong from time to time and its part and parcel of car ownership that visits to the 
garage sometimes have to be made. Further, I can see that on each occasion that Mr B took 
the car to the garage, he was provided with a courtesy car, so I think Kia did as much as it 
could to minimise any inconvenience suffered.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy with the MPG of the car but I havent seen any evidence to 
link the fault with the start / stop to this so Im unable to say that Kia is responsible. Fuel 
consumption can be affected by several factors and its not possible to say what the cause 
was in this case.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Kia has acted unfairly here, so I wont be asking 
it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman