DRN-2783685
The complaint
Mr P complained that his claim for storm damage under his buildings insurance policy with 
AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr P said that a small section of his kitchen ceiling collapsed whilst he was on holiday. He 
said a relative who was house sitting at the time contacted his broker to notify them and 
raise a claim.
The broker contacted AXA in late August 2020 to report Mr Ps flat roof was damaged by 
storms in the preceding June 2020 and the broker said this led to a water ingress and 
collapse of the kitchen ceiling. Mr P said the broker had informed his relative to submit a 
claim and send photos of the damage if the repairs would cost less than £2,000. After seeing 
the photos, he said the broker had advised him to go ahead with the repairs and to forward 
the invoices to them. 
AXA werent notified about the claim until after the repairs had been completed. A surveyor 
was appointed to assess the claim and he recommended AXA to decline the claim. The 
surveyor said there was no damage to assess as the repairs had already been completed. 
The surveyor said Mr P only provided two pictures of the damage to the kitchen ceiling and 
no photos to support the damage to the walls or the felt roof. The surveyor said Mr P thought 
he should be covered by his policy as it was an escape of water, but the surveyor explained 
to him that the claim couldnt be an escape of water claim as there was no escape from fixed 
pipework or guttering.
AXA declined the claim. It said there was no evidence of storms around the incident date 
and it didnt think the felt roof had been properly maintained. It also said there was no 
evidence provided to show the damage was caused by a one-off event as opposed to 
gradual deterioration. As it didnt have any damage to validate, it declined the claim. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr P had not contacted AXA at 
the time the damage was noticed, which meant AXA were not given a fair opportunity to 
validate the claim before the repairs to the property were carried out. She also said the 
photos taken by Mr P did not provide enough evidence to allow AXA to validate the claim. 
She also saw no evidence of a storm taking place at the time of the reported incident. Mr P 
was unhappy with this outcome, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original claim made by the broker (on behalf of Mr P) was for storm damage. So, I have 
first considered whether AXA has fairly considered the claim from this perspective. 
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
AXA said there were no storm conditions noted in June 2020, the maximum wind speeds 
noted were 40mph on the 29 June, and no rainfall above 25mm per hour. As the date of the 
actual incident is uncertain, I have checked weather conditions in June and in early August 
where Mr P also suggested the damage may have happened. I have checked weather 
reports for these periods and there is no evidence of heavy winds or rainfall, so I think AXA 
have reached a reasonable conclusion that there were no storms at the time of the reported 
incident.
As no storm conditions existed, AXA were fair to decline the claim on this basis and so there 
is no need to consider the other two questions.
Notwithstanding this, I have also considered whether AXA has been fair in declining the 
claim as it said there was no opportunity to properly validate the claim and no evidence of a 
one-off insured event occurring. Mr P said that his broker had told his relative to go ahead 
and complete the remediation. AXAs records contradict this, suggesting the broker advised 
that the work shouldnt be completed until the claim was validated. I think the evidence is 
inconclusive on this point. It seems the communications may have been confused, but as its 
unclear what happened I cant use this to support my decision. It is open to Mr P to bring a 
separate complaint against his broker should he wish.
When a policyholder makes a claim, in this case Mr P, the onus is on him to show that an 
insured event most likely caused the damage. AXAs appointed surveyor concluded that 
there was no damage to assess as the repairs had been carried out. I have read the 
surveyors report and I think he has reached a fair conclusion. AXA said We have one photo 
showing a hole in the kitchen ceiling, but nothing else, no evidence of any water damage to 
the ceiling aside from the hole which looks to be raked out, and nothing to show any damage 
to the walls. In view of this, the claim was declined by our suppliers.
If AXA are to be expected to cover the claim, its only fair that it has a reasonable opportunity 
to validate the claim. Given that the repairs were done before the surveyor visited the 
property and the photographic evidence doesnt show what caused the damage, its not 
possible to say for certain a one-off insured event caused the damage. Therefore, as I cant 
say on the balance of probabilities an insured event did cause the damage, I think AXA has 
been fair in not covering this claim. So, whilst I have sympathy for Mr P, I am unable to 
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require AXA Insurance UK plc to 
do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 Pete Averill
Ombudsman