DRN-4473989
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim for storm damage.
What happened
Ms E had buildings and contents insurance underwritten by Aviva. She claimed under her 
policy after she found damage to her roof and bedroom ceiling following storm-like weather. 
Aviva didnt think thered been a storm, but it appointed a roofer to inspect the damage. On 
receipt of the roofers report, Aviva declined the claim. It said the roof showed signs of wear 
and tear both outside and inside. Therefore, Aviva said the poor weather conditions had 
simply highlighted existing damage.
Ms E complained to Aviva. She didnt think it had fairly declined her claim. Aviva issued its 
final response to her complaint explaining that it maintained its position. So, Ms E brought 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed that the roof showed signs of wear and tear, so he thought Aviva 
had declined the claim for the roof fairly. However, he said Aviva should consider the internal 
damage because it was consistent with a one-off event and, therefore, covered under the 
accidental damage section of the policy.
Aviva didnt agree. It said the policy excluded cover for water ingress if there wasnt a valid 
claim for storm damage.
Ms E provided photos of her roof to show that it was in good condition, and pointed out that 
the area Aviva had photographed was the wrong part.
On reviewing further evidence, our investigator thought the policy didnt cover the internal 
damage, and he was of the opinion that Aviva had looked at the correct part of the roof. 
Therefore, he didnt uphold Ms Es complaint.
Neither party responded, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. The details of the complaint are 
well known to both Ms E and Aviva, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Although Avivas evidence indicated there hadnt been a storm, other weather data 
suggested that there were storm-like conditions. As other factors affect the impact of storm-
like conditions, Ive considered whether the damage was likely caused by a storm.
Avivas expert report included photos of the roof showing previously repaired damage, 
slipped tiles, and evidence of nail fatigue. Its explanation of the images is consistent with 
wear and tear which is the reason it gave for declining this part of the claim. Im persuaded 
by Avivas evidence that the roof showed signs of wear and tear.
Ms E said Aviva used photos of the wrong part of her roof to reach its decision. On request, 
Aviva provided its photos and confirmed that it had looked at the correct part of the roof. Im 
satisfied that the report and photos support this. 
A well-maintained house is unlikely to suffer damage except in the most severe weather 
conditions. The weather data indicated conditions which couldve met the storm definition. 
However, the same data doesnt suggest conditions that wouldve been classed as severe. 
Therefore, I think its more likely than not that the rain got inside Ms Es home because of the 
existing wear and tear.
For these reasons, Im satisfied that Aviva fairly declined Ms Es claim under the wear and 
tear exclusion, in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Aviva declined the interior damage claim because cover for water ingress which isnt caused 
by an insured peril is excluded. Ive said that Aviva fairly declined Ms Es storm damage 
claim because the evidence suggests that the damage was due to wear and tear. Therefore, 
it follows that the interior damage caused by the water ingress was also due to wear and 
tear. 
Wear and tear is not an insured peril, so its reasonable that Aviva relied on the policy 
exclusion to decline the claim for interior damage.
Overall, Im satisfied that Aviva declined Ms Es claim fairly and reasonably for the reasons it 
gave and in line with the policy terms and conditions. I wont ask Aviva to do any more in 
respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Es complaint, and Im 
not asking Aviva Insurance Limited to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman