DRN-2607425
The complaint
Mr E complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited under its Home 
Care insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter earlier this month, part of which is copied 
below:
Mr E holds a Home Care policy with British Gas that provides servicing and breakdown 
cover for his boiler. Mr E says British Gas installed the boiler in his property in about 2003 
and its serviced the boiler on an annual basis since then. When the boiler was being 
serviced in February 2020 the British Gas engineer said the flue was corroded and needed 
replacing. He ordered the part and returned the next day. But as he pulled the flue out to 
replace it, the surrounding wall crumbled. He turned off the gas for safety reasons and said 
someone would be in touch later that day about what to do next. 
Mr E didnt hear anything more that day and made several calls over the next few days to 
find out what was going to happen. After one night without any gas, heating or hot water, 
Mr E allowed his tenants to move out of the property into temporary accommodation. After 
four days, British Gas sent another engineer to the property, but he didnt know why hed 
been sent there so nothing was done. Mr E continued to call British Gas and complained 
about what was happening. After a further seven days, British Gas said it wasnt responsible 
for fixing the wall and it wouldnt repair the boiler until Mr E had repaired the wall. Mr E paid 
for a third party to repair the wall and install a new boiler. Mr E thought British Gas should 
take responsibility for the poor condition of the wall that had crumbled, particularly as it had 
installed the original boiler in 2003. He asked it to reimburse him for the costs of repairing 
the wall, installing the new boiler and the costs hed incurred in accommodating his tenants. 
British Gas accepted it had failed to provide an appropriate level of service and paid Mr E 
£100 in recognition of that. But it didnt accept it was responsible for the condition of his wall, 
particularly as the boiler had been installed so long ago. It also said it wasnt responsible for 
replacing his boiler or for the costs hed incurred in providing temporary accommodation for 
his tenants. 
Our investigator didnt think British Gas had acted fairly. He thought it was reasonable for 
British Gas to say it wasnt responsible for repairing the wall or for replacing the boiler. But 
he thought the delay in telling Mr E was avoidable and unnecessary. As Mr E moved his 
tenants out of the property due to this delay, he thought British Gas should reimburse him for 
the costs hed incurred in doing that.
Mr E accepted the investigators view, but British Gas didnt. It said Mr Es policy allowed it to 
carry out repairs within a reasonable time. It also said it had highlighted the problem with the 
wall when the engineer had first visited Mr Es property in February 2020 so there was no 
delay in confirming it was unable to repair the flue until the wall was repaired. It thought Mr E 
should have taken the necessary steps at that point. As British Gas didnt agree with the 
investigators view, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I intend to come to a 
slightly different outcome to our investigator. Let me explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Es Home Care policy says it covers him for all repairs to his 
boiler, including the flue. So, it was reasonable to expect British Gas to repair the corroded 
flue it found when its engineer carried out an annual service in February 2020. The question 
here is what British Gas should have done when the wall crumbled away as the engineer 
removed the corroded flue. 
British Gas eventually told Mr E it wasnt responsible for repairing the wall and it wouldnt fix 
the boiler until Mr E repaired the wall. I think it was reasonable for British Gas to say that. 
The boiler was installed over 17 years before these events happened and it would be difficult 
to determine how or why the wall crumbled away when the flue was removed. I also note 
that Mr Es policy excludes any damage covered by other kinds of insurance. So, for 
example, it doesnt cover damage caused by extreme weather, escape of water or structural 
issues that would normally be covered by household insurance. So, I think it was fair for 
British Gas to say it wasnt responsible for the repair of the wall. 
I also think it was fair for British Gas to say it wouldnt pay for the installation and 
replacement of Mr Es new boiler. I havent seen any evidence the boiler needed replacing. 
And even if it did, the terms and conditions of Mr Es policy says British Gas will only replace 
the boiler if it cant repair it and its less than ten years old (in circumstances where it was 
installed by British Gas and it had been continuously covered under either a warranty or 
Home Care agreement). Mr Es boiler was over ten years old. 
So, Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for British Gas to refuse to pay for the costs of 
repairing the wall and installing a new boiler.
The next question is whether British Gas delayed unnecessarily in telling Mr E it wasnt 
responsible for repairing the damaged wall. British Gas has said its engineer highlighted the 
problem with the wall at the time it was damaged and there was no delay in confirming it was 
unable to complete the repair to the flue until the wall was repaired. It thinks Mr E should 
have taken necessary steps at this point and the delay in getting the wall repaired was not its 
fault. 
The evidence Ive seen from the first two visits are the engineers report of the first visit and 
the customer checklist completed by the same engineer from the second visit. The first 
explains the situation with the flue and the second explains how the wall crumbled away as 
he was pulling the flue from the boiler. But Ive seen no evidence to say British Gas 
confirmed or clarified it was not responsible for repairing the wall. Instead, Mr E says he was 
told British Gas needed to investigate further and someone would contact him later that day 
to come and have a look. But no one came and when he called British Gas several times 
over the next few days, it failed to clarify the situation. British Gas arranged for another 
engineer to visit a few days later but, again, nothing was confirmed or agreed. 
It was only seven days later, 12 days after the wall was damaged, that British Gas said it 
wasnt responsible for repairing the wall and it wouldnt fix the boiler until that was done. 
Mr E then took action to repair the wall. Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that British 
Gas didnt clarify the situation until 12 days after the first visit.
British Gas is right to say Mr Es policy highlights the fact it will carry out any repairs or visits 
within a reasonable time  unless something beyond its control makes that impossible. But British Gas hasnt given any reasons why it couldnt have clarified the situation with Mr E 
much earlier than it did. Mr E was wrong in thinking British Gas would repair the wall when it 
wasnt responsible for doing so. But I think British Gas had a responsibility to clarify the 
situation. Mr E made numerous calls to find out what was happening and British Gas took 
longer than necessary to explain the situation. So, I agree with our investigator that the delay 
was unnecessary and could have been avoided.
So, should British Gas pay for the cost of temporary accommodation for his tenants? His 
tenants had two young children and they were left without any gas, heating or hot water in 
February. So, I think it was fair for Mr E to agree to move them out of the property. But I think 
there was always likely to have been some delay in getting his boiler up and running and I 
dont think British Gas should take responsibility for all of that delay. Had British Gas done 
what it should have done and clarified the situation when the wall was damaged, Mr E would 
then have needed to arrange for the wall to be repaired. That could have taken a few days. 
And it might then have taken a few days for British Gas to return to repair the flue. So, I think 
there was always likely to have been a certain amount of disruption and Mr E might have 
needed to find temporary accommodation for his tenants while that was going on.
Our investigator thought British Gas should pay for all the accommodation costs between the 
date the tenants moved into temporary accommodation until the date it confirmed the 
situation with the damaged wall. But as there was always likely to have been some 
disruption, I think it would be fairer for British Gas to pay for a proportion of those costs. 
Having seen evidence of the costs Mr E incurred while his tenants were in temporary 
accommodation, I think it would be fair and reasonable for British Gas to pay 60% of them. 
Putting things right 
In light of the above, I think British Gas need to do more to put things right. I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for British Gas to cover 60% of the costs of putting Mr Es tenants in 
temporary accommodation. Mr E has provided evidence to show the total cost of 
accommodating his tenants was £996.33. So, I think British Gas should pay a total of 
£597.80. And it should pay 8% simple interest on that amount for the period Mr E has been 
without payment.
British Gas has already paid Mr E £100 for the poor service it provided and I think that 
amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im currently intending to uphold Mr Es complaint in part 
and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr E a total of £597.80, plus 8% simple 
interest from the date he gave it evidence of the costs he incurred to the date it makes 
payment.
Responses to my provisional decision
British Gas said it didnt agree with my provisional decision for the reasons it had already 
given. In summary, it said it hadnt caused the situation and it wasnt responsible for the 
damage to the wall. It said it had tried to repair the flue but simply hadnt been able to. It said 
its agreement was with Mr E, not his tenants, and the costs hed incurred were his 
responsibility. British Gas also reiterated that there was no delay in confirming it was unable 
to complete the repair to the flue until the wall had been repaired. 
Mr E said he agreed with my provisional decision in principle but thought British Gas should 
pay 75% of the costs, rather than the 60% Id suggested. He said buying and installing the new boiler had taken less than three days and it would have cost him two nights 
accommodation had British Gas done what it should have done and clarified the situation 
when the wall had been damaged. So, he believed British Gas were responsible for a higher 
proportion of the costs hed incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence again, including the points made by British Gas and Mr E 
in response to my provisional decision, Im not persuaded to change my findings. 
British Gas has repeated its reasons for not upholding Mr Es complaint, but it hasnt 
provided any further evidence in support of its contention that there was no delay in 
confirming it wouldnt repair the damaged wall. I agree it wasnt responsible for repairing the 
wall and I dont think it needs to reimburse Mr E for the cost of replacing and installing a new 
boiler. But I do think it should take responsibility for the delay in clarifying the situation. Mr E 
incurred costs due to that delay and I think its fair and reasonable for British Gas to 
reimburse him for a proportion of those costs.
Mr E believes British Gas should pay a higher proportion of his costs. I accept what he says 
about the time it took to buy and install the new boiler. Had British Gas not delayed in 
confirming the situation with the damaged wall, Mr E might have been able to buy and install 
a new boiler within three days, as he did a week or so later. But it might also have taken a 
few days longer than that or he might have decided just to repair the wall and ask British 
Gas to return and repair the existing boiler, which would have taken longer. Its a speculative 
situation and, having considered the matter again and looking at things in the round, I remain 
of the view that it would be fair for British Gas to pay 60% of the costs Mr E incurred.
Putting things right
Mr E has provided evidence to show the total cost of accommodating his tenants was 
£996.33. So, I think British Gas should pay a total of £597.80, which is 60% of those costs. 
And it should pay 8% simple interest on that amount for the period Mr E has been without 
payment.
British Gas has already paid Mr E £100 for the poor service it provided and I think that 
amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr E a total of 
£597.80, plus 8% simple interest from the date he gave it evidence of the costs he incurred 
to the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Richard Walker
1 If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E had much its taken off. It should also give Mr E a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HR Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.Ombudsman