DRN-2201992
The complaint
Mr L has complained about his contents insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited 
because it cancelled his policy.
What happened
Mr Ls baggage was lost by an airline in June 2018. In October 2018, having received 
some settlement from the airline, Mr L made a claim to Admiral under his home contents 
policy for items lost away from the home.
Admiral began investigating the claim and in November 2018 it asked to interview Mr L. 
Mr L said he was happy to be interviewed but there was some difficulty with scheduling as 
Mr L travels for work. Mr L then became dissatisfied with Admirals loss adjuster. He felt it 
kept repeating questions and was asking for some information that wasnt pertinent to the 
claim  such as his wifes occupation. He noted the loss adjusters on-line reviews were 
poor and told Admiral that he wouldnt deal direct with the loss adjuster anymore.
On 6 February 2019 Admiral decided it was going to cancel Mr Ls policy and decline the 
claim. It told him the cancellation would take effect from 14 February 2019 and was 
because he had refused to cooperate with it. Mr L said he hadnt refused to cooperate 
with Admiral  he was quite happy to pass it information and there was nothing in the 
policy that meant he had to deal with third-parties. On 13 February 2019 Admiral issued a 
final response to Mr L confirming it was cancelling his policy and declining the claim.
Mr L complained to us and we initially dealt with his complaint about Admiral declining 
his claim. We then, under this complaint reference, considered Admirals act of 
cancelling the policy but also commented on some remaining concerns Mr L had about 
the claim.
Our investigator said that Admiral had cancelled the policy unfairly so it should reinstate it. 
He also commented on what should happen next with the claim. Specifically our 
investigator said that Admiral should restrict its questions to Mr L by only asking him for 
personal information if its necessary to establish the correct person is being spoken to, 
that any other questions it had should just relate to the claim. He said if Mr L still refused 
to provide information to Admiral within one month then Admiral could fairly cancel the 
policy.
Admiral didnt agree with our investigators findings. It said the claim situation was complex 
but the policy had actually lapsed at renewal in October 2019 (it hadnt cancelled it in 
February 2019).
Mr L remained adamant that the policy doesnt require him to provide information to 
third-parties. He felt it was unfair that Admiral had cancelled his policy without any 
real warning and this had since affected his ability to get cover.
The complaint was passed to me and I felt that Admiral hadnt exercised its right to 
cancel under the policy fairly. I issued a provisonal decsion expalinng what I felt 
Admiral needed to do to put things right. 
Mr L said he was happy with my findings. He also said Admiral had paid his claim.
Admiral confirmed to us it had recevied the provisonal decision. But it did not 
provide any response to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisionally I said:
I think its fair to say that Admiral knew there was some discontent between Mr L and its 
loss adjuster. In my view the appropriate way of dealing with this would have been for 
Admiral to explain to Mr L that it had chosen to deal with his claim by appointing the loss 
adjuster and Mr L needed to cooperate with it; that by dealing with the loss adjuster Mr L 
was cooperating with Admiral as he is required to do under his policy. Admiral could have 
advised Mr L that if, having had a reasonable period to consider his position, he didnt 
agree to continue dealing with the adjuster then it might opt to cancel his policy as allowed 
under its terms. Admiral should have explained what that would mean for Mr L, thus 
allowing him to make an informed decision. But Admiral did not do that. Instead Admiral 
took the decision to cancel without giving Mr L any other option and it did that whilst only 
giving him the notice required by the policy (seven days). Given Admiral knew Mr L 
travelled a lot I think this was particularly unfair. I think Admiral should reinstate Mr Ls 
policy and remove the record of the cancellation from its own and any external database.
Im unsure why, given Admiral had said it was cancelling Mr Ls policy with effect from 
February 2019 that it was still in place as of October 2019. I assume the policy then 
lapsed at renewal because Mr L believed it had already been cancelled and was no 
longer in existence. But I dont see this as a bar to reinstatement. Mr L shouldnt be left 
with a gap in cover due to Admirals unfair action of cancelling the policy so it will have 
to reinstate it to date or, if Mr L has found other cover, to the point that began. If that 
other cover cost Mr L more Admiral will have to reimburse the increased cost, plus 
interest*.
From what Admiral has said it seems it is still willing to continue with Mr Ls claim. It has 
only declined it because he had refused to provide information to Admirals adjuster. 
Whilst Mr L is uncertain what information Admiral is still looking for, Admiral has confirmed 
it wants to conduct either a telephone or face-to-face interview with Mr L, which would be 
led by the loss adjuster. I understand that Mr L is prepared to cooperate with that. Whilst I 
also know that Mr L wants assurances that Admiral wont ask further questions or for 
more information after this, I cant reasonably make a finding about this here. It is the 
nature of investigations that sometimes a further need arises to ask more questions and 
for further information. That is quite natural and normal and not something Id be prepared 
to restrict Admiral from doing going forwards.
I also know that Mr L wants assurances that personal information wont be asked for. 
Again I cant reasonably make an order in this respect at this time. If the adjuster thinks 
that personal information is a required and necessary part of its investigations then its 
reasonable that questions are asked of Mr L about this. Id urge Mr L to try and 
understand that just because he doesnt see the relevance to all of Admirals enquiries 
doesnt mean they arent pertinent  it is the insurer and the one investigating and seeking 
to validate his claim, it needs to be allowed a certain freedom to undertake that work.Whilst I also know that Mr L doesnt trust the loss adjuster it may help him to understand 
that the adjuster is an agent of Admiral. Any failure by the adjuster is seen as a failure of 
Admiral. So he isnt being asked to deal with the loss adjuster by virtue of some separate 
contract he has never agreed to  rather he is dealing with Admiral under his insurance 
policy by virtue of contact with the loss adjuster.
I understand that not having cover has been quite stressful for Mr L. Mr L has been 
concerned about what might happen to his home and whilst hes tried to find other cover, 
the quotes have been very expensive. He wouldnt have had to go to this trouble or suffer 
this worry if Admiral hadnt unfairly cancelled his policy. I think it should pay him £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
As neither party objected to my findings, Ive no need to change or move away from them. 
I confirm that my provisonal findings are now the findigs of this, my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
Remove the record of the cancellation from its own and any external database.
Reinstate Mr Ls policy.
Reimburse any extra costs Mr L has had for replacement cover, plus interest* from 
the date of each overpayment until settlement is made.
Resume consideration of Mr Ls claim.
Pay Mr L £250 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to the dates stated. If Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
due to Mr L, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman