DRN-3404156
The complaint
Mr R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined a claim 
made under his buildings insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr R or Great Lakes includes respective representatives and agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr R holds his buildings insurance with Great Lakes. In March 2019 he made a claim 
for damage to his property that he said happened in December 2018. Various causes 
for the damage were put forward, including accidental damage, and comments that a 
sinkhole owned by the council had opened nearby, causing excess water to damage 
his garden walls and property. Mr R later attributed the damage to a storm.
Great Lakes appointed a loss adjuster and requested Mr R provide an environmental 
and structural engineers report to confirm the cause of damage, and 
correspondence from the council to confirm it was responsible for the sinkhole. 
Mr R requested an update in January 2020 and was told a new loss adjuster had 
been appointed. It asked Mr R to provide quotes for the necessary repairs  which he 
did. He also provided the requested structural engineers report around April 2020 
which said the cause of damage to the wall was due to excess water (from a storm) 
which damaged the canal walls, and in turn led to the collapse of the garden wall. 
Great Lakes reviewed the quotes and said due to the size of the claim it sent its own 
surveyor to visit the site. The surveyor agreed the walls of the nearby brook had 
suffered wear and tear and caused localised collapse. And while the collapse may 
have taken place during a storm, this was a gradual failure over time and not due to 
an insured peril. So it declined the claim.
Mr R complained to Great Lakes. It said it had fairly declined the claim, but agreed it 
had caused delays and mis-managed expectations. It apologised and offered £250 
compensation for its mistakes. It also settled the costs of the reports Mr R had 
commissioned.
One of our Investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold the complaint. 
She considered weather reports from around the time the wall collapsed and said 
there were no storms. 
The Investigator also considered Mr Rs engineers comments  which were 
produced after the complaint came to this Service  which suggested the damage 
occurred due to multiple storms between September 2018 and April 2019. But this 
didnt persuade her as she said any storms that happened after December 2018 
were irrelevant as the damage had already occurred. And she considered videos 
which showed increased water in the canal but said this didnt amount to a storm.
She concluded Great Lakes had fairly declined the claim in light of the policy terms. 
And while it had caused delays and mis-managed Mr Rs expectations, the offer of 
£250 compensation was fair in the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed but hasnt provided any further comments. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim
When making a claim on an insurance policy, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate 
the claim is one covered by the policy. If the insurer wishes to rely on an exclusion to decline 
a claim, the onus is on it to show the exclusion more than likely applies.
In this case Mr R has attributed the damage in question to various potential perils, including 
accidental damage, storm, and flood. So, to begin with Ive looked at the available evidence 
and expert opinions to establish what the cause was.
Mr R has quoted a report from one of Great Lakes agents from April 2019 which he says 
confirms the claim was covered. Ive looked at this report, which outlines that its author 
completed an inspection and their intended next steps. And it says:
We cannot confirm an Insured Peril is on operation at this stage, however to 
give the Insured the benefit of doubt we await their Environmental and Structural 
Engineers report on the cause of the damage, extent of the damage, level of repairs 
and methodology of repairs for the damage to the stone wall along with any 
correspondence received from the Council. [my emphasis]
I think this is clear that Great Lakes had not accepted there was an insured peril in place at 
this time, and that the insured peril in question was yet to be established. Mr R has sought to 
rely on an assessment produced by his own engineer from July 2019, who said:
We noted that a considerably [sic] section of the existing wall has been washed 
away following a recent storm event.
The recent storm has surcharged the existing culvert in the ownership of [local 
council], as a consequence, caused the same to collapse with a sink hole opening 
within the adjacent highway.
The extra volume of water then entered the water course but it is obvious that its 
embankment was incapable of accommodating this additional surcharge force and 
collapsed. 
This engineer has been clear that he is of the belief the cause of the damage in question is 
storm. When the engineer was asked about when the storm in question occurred he listed 
eight storms across a six-month period. Four of these dates took place after the damage 
occurred, so arent relevant. And three of the storms hes mentioned took place in 
September and October 2018, several months before the damage. So, these do not 
persuade me the damage was caused as a result of a one-off event. 
Only one of the storms quoted took place in December 2018. So, Ive looked at the 
weather reports from around the time of the damage. And these simply do not support that 
there were storm conditions at this time. Ive gone on to consider Great Lakes surveyors report.
The water running in the brook has caused a scouring affect (erosion) below the 
low-level blocks. This scouring action undermines the blocks causing them to rotate 
into the watercourse This removal of support has caused the walls to slump and 
belly outwards, which has resulted in three areas of localised failure/collapse.  
Although these failures may have occurred during recent storm events and during 
periods of increased flow through the canal, we expect there will have been signs of 
gradual failure over many years.
The report is detailed, and I think is clear in demonstrating that the most likely cause of 
damage here is due to age, weathering and general wear and tear over time. So even if I 
agreed there had been storm conditions  which I dont  I wouldnt be persuaded the storm 
would be the proximate cause of the damage.
The policy says it will not cover any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, gradual 
deterioration or any other gradually operating cause. So due to the cause of the damage 
happening over time, Im satisfied Great Lakes has fairly declined this claim.
Handling 
Great Lakes has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly and to keep Mr R 
updated on the status of his claim.
In this case, Great Lakes has acknowledged it hasnt handled this claim well at times, 
causing delays and mis-managing Mr Rs expectations. I wont detail the events again here, 
but Im satisfied it hasnt met its obligations by making these mistakes. 
While these delays wouldve caused frustration to Mr R, ultimately, they havent impacted 
the outcome of the claim. So, taking everything into account Im satisfied the offer of £250 
compensation it has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman