DRN-1231333
 
The complaint
Miss V complains Nationwide Building Society have closed her account.
What happened
Miss V brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response from Nationwide 
to her complaint. They didnt uphold it.
Nationwide told Miss V on 31 July 2019 in their Final Response Letter (FRL) they didnt 
agree theyd made any error. They told Miss V theyd sent her several requests asking her to 
contact them in regard to the Reducing Overdraft Limit (ROL) - set up on 28 December 
2018 - for which payment wasnt received in March 2019, so the ROL failed. Nationwide said 
theyd written to Miss V on 3 and 13 April 2019 asking her to contact them to have the ROL 
arrangement set again or to discuss the account. They said they then wrote on 29 May 2019 
serving a notice of default and explaining the account would default if payment of the 
balance specified wasnt made by 19 June 2019. And a further letter was sent on 26 June 
2019 advising of the default. Nationwide acknowledged the negative balance on Miss Vs 
account had now been settled and it was in the process of being closed.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought Nationwide had made Miss V 
aware of her options and communicated them to her in a way that was fair and reasonable. 
She was persuaded Nationwide had offered Miss V help and support in respect of the ROL. 
In respect of the account defaulting she didnt agree that Miss V had received poor service, 
she said she couldnt see that Nationwide couldve done anymore for Miss V in this instance.
Miss V didnt agree and asked for the matter to be taken further. She told us she didnt get 
the correspondence and only found out her account was closed when she went into the 
branch. Miss V said she thought the investigator hadnt considered or referred to everything 
which shed told us. She told us she needed a bank account and Nationwides actions were 
wholly unfair after shed been banking with them for 23 years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letters 
giving her opinion. So I shant repeat that here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add 
to what shes already told Miss V. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I agree 
with her analysis and conclusions.
Theres nothing to suggest anyone disputes the payment history set out in the FRL. The 
ROL arrangement wasnt kept to and Miss V didnt respond to a number of letters including 
one with a default notice. So, from all the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwide were 
entitled to default the account and that theyve followed the correct procedures in doing so. And like the investigator I think theyve taken a responsible approach in offering Miss V help 
and support in respect of any possible financial difficulties during the process. 
Im satisfied from the copy letters and default notices Ive seen that Nationwide sent them to 
the correct address for Miss V, which is the same one this service have recorded for her. So 
although I acknowledge Miss V said she didnt get these letters from Nationwide, on 
balance, Im satisfied they were sent. I dont know why it is that Miss V hasnt been receiving 
her mail, but I cant safely conclude that this is as a result of something the society has done 
wrong. And ultimately its Miss Vs responsibility to manage this account in line with the 
terms and conditions and I cant see that she did this here. So, overall, I cant say 
Nationwides subsequent actions were unreasonable or unknown to Miss V.
I know Miss V is unhappy about the impact the default has on her credit file and on her 
ability to open another current account. But Nationwide reporting the default is an accurate 
reflection of the situation and one they clearly warned her about in the letters they sent. So I 
dont think Nationwide have done anything wrong here. And if Miss V would like to open a 
new current account with Nationwide she can apply in the normal way and her eligibility will 
be assessed.
Given how strongly Miss V feels about whats happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
her dispute with Nationwide informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss V.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman