DRN-3220104
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC hasnt reimbursed her for her loss after she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
On 27 March 2021 Mrs T received a call from scammers claiming to be calling her from the 
supreme court. They knew her name, that she was a student and in the UK under a student 
visa, and where she worked. They told her theyd been assigned her case and provided a 
case number. They explained shed committed fraud as she hadnt paid the correct amount 
of income tax and told her she was going to be arrested. Mrs T had recently moved to the 
UK, so the prospect of police involvement and the impact this might have on her visa added 
to the pressure she felt during the conversation.
Mrs T knew her employer was responsible for arranging the payment of her income tax and 
said this to scammers. But she was aware shed recently changed the amount of hours she 
worked which mightve impacted this. Mrs T asked why she hadnt received any letters and 
was told the delivery of a letter had been attempted but as she wasnt home it was returned 
undelivered because it was confidential. Mrs T questioned the number the scammers were 
calling from and they directed her to the Queens Bench Division of the High Court website 
and told her theyd call her back on the number given on the site, which they then did.
Mrs T was told her outstanding tax liability was £989 which she paid across two payments of 
around £499 and £490. She paid this, but was then told she was liable for a further £1,572 
for court fees. She was told this money would be refunded if judges found in her favour but 
she had to pay it in order to demonstrate she was innocent. She was then asked for a further 
£2,500 to remove her details from the court system but this payment was blocked by her 
bank as shed reached her transaction limit for that day. Mrs T paid this amount from her 
husbands account. I wont be considering this payment under this complaint as it didnt 
come from Mrs Ts Metro Bank account. 
The name of the account she was asked to pay ended in QBD which she understood stood 
for the Queens Bench Division and was consistent with who she thought she was speaking 
to. The scammers continued to ask Mrs T for money, which she was unable to pay. She 
asked a family member for help and the scam was uncovered when they spoke to 
scammers.
Mrs T reported the matter to Metro Bank which upheld her complaint in part. It said it hadnt 
provided Mrs T with any effective warnings as it felt it shouldve, but it didnt feel shed met 
her requisite level of care because she didnt do enough to check the payments were 
genuine. So it felt she shared 50% of the responsibility.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They felt Mrs T had a reasonable basis for believing 
what shed been told by scammers. As Metro Bank didnt accept this the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
Bank should have reimbursed Mrs T in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has 
agreed to adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect them from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mrs T was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for Mrs T to receive a refund of the money under the CRM Code. 
The Code places a level of care on Mrs T too. 
THE CRM CODE
Metro Bank has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Metro Bank to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case. 
Metro Bank feels it ought to have provided Mrs T with effective warnings in relation to these 
payments and has said it didnt do so in this case. Because Metro Bank has already 
reimbursed Mrs T 50% of her loss in relation to this exception, I havent considered it any 
further. 
So, whats left for me to decide is whether I think Mrs T had a reasonable basis for believing 
what she was told by the scammers when she made the payments she did.Did Mrs T have a reasonable basis for believing what she was told by the scammers?
Having considered Mrs Ts testimony and Metro Banks points very carefully, overall, Im 
satisfied that Mrs T did have a reasonable basis for believing what she was told by 
scammers. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken the following into account.
Mrs T doesnt currently have permanent residency in the UK, so her ability to live and 
work here is dependent on her current visa. The scammers threatened her with court 
and police action because of unpaid tax. I think for any reasonable person this likely 
wouldve been worrying, but in this case, being in trouble with the law wouldve likely 
impacted Mrs Ts visa and right to continue her studies in the UK. So I think she had 
much more at stake than an average person might and this wouldve added to the 
panic and pressure she felt during the call.
The scammers knew Mrs Ts name, that she was a student in the UK and studying 
on a student visa and where she worked. They proceeded to present themselves as 
the Queens Bench Division, told her she had a case officer and provided her case 
number. When Mrs T challenged the number they were calling from, they directed 
her to the Queens Bench Division website and called her back from the number 
given on the website. So I think the scammer had enough information and did 
enough to reasonably convince her the call was legitimate.
Mrs T works in the UK and shes aware that usually her employer handles her tax for 
her. So when the scammers initially told her they were calling about unpaid tax she 
challenged this and was told there had been a mistake. And although she did know 
her employer wouldve been at least in part responsible, she also knew shed 
recently changed the amount of hours she was working. So she thought it was 
possible this mightve caused some kind of problem and I think this is reasonable.
I think Mrs T asked reasonable questions challenging what shed been told by the 
scammers and they provided plausible explanations throughout the call. As well as 
questioning her liability and the phone number scammers were calling from, she 
asked why she hadnt received any written communication about the tax and court 
action. She was told a letter had been sent but had to be delivered only to her and as 
she wasnt home it was returned. Given the scammers claimed it was court 
paperwork, rather than regular post, I think its reasonable she accepted this. 
The payments were made to an individual that the scammers told Mrs T was her 
caseworker and the account name included the initials QBD, which she thought 
confirmed they were working with the Queens Bench Division. So although Metro 
Bank has questioned why she wasnt paying HMRC directly, given that Mrs T had 
been told the situation was being handled by the court I can see why she accepted 
this at the time.
Metro Bank has raised concerns about the payments Mrs T was asked to pay the 
judge as a show of good faith or to prove her innocence. Its said this essentially 
sounds like a bribe and ought to have concerned Mrs T. And I agree this payment 
and its description sounds unusual. But Mrs T has explained that where shes from, it 
is sometimes the case families will make payments to the courts in order to resolve a 
situation sooner. So in her experience, and with her cultural frame of reference, this 
wasnt an obvious indication of a crime. And it doesnt appear Mrs T had any genuine 
court experience in the UK to compare to. When considered alongside everything 
else Ive mentioned I dont think this detail ought reasonably to have alerted her to the scam in light of the other plausible and persuasive information shed been given.
 
It seems Mrs T tried to challenge the scammers, but they were prepared with plausible 
answers to her concerns. I think her visa status in the UK left her more vulnerable to the 
pressure and emotional manipulation of this type of scam and I think in this particular case 
the scam itself seems to have been executed in a convincing and sophisticated way. Overall, 
I think Mrs T had a reasonable basis for believing what she was being told.
For this reason, I think Metro Bank needs to refund the remaining 50% of the payments Mrs 
T made to the scammers.
Could Metro Bank have done anything to prevent the payments being made?
Like the investigator, I agree that given Metro Bank ought to have been on the look out for 
obvious indications of fraud in its customers accounts, it ought to have thought it unusual 
that Mrs T made a succession of payments to the same, new payee in such a short space of 
time. By the time she made the third payment of £1,572 I think it ought to have intervened in 
order to check the payment was genuine.
As Mrs T clearly believed what shed been told by scammers, I cant see any reason she 
wouldnt have told Metro Bank she thought was paying outstanding tax if asked. If it had 
sufficiently questioned her as I wouldve expected, I think its likely the scam wouldve been 
uncovered before the payments were made given what Metro Bank should know about 
common scams like this one.
Putting things right
Metro Bank should refund the remaining 50% of the payments Mrs T made to 
scammers.
Interest should be added to this amount at a rate of 8% from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement.
Metro Bank should also pay 8% interest on the 50% it refunded to Mrs T from the 
date of payment to the date of reimbursement to reflect that it couldve prevented her 
from making the payments and she wouldnt have been deprived of the funds during 
this time.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC now needs to pay Mrs T the redress outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman