DRN-1138791
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Santander UK Plc delayed the sale of their property. They say 
this jeopardised their sale and they incurred additional interest as a result. They ask for 
compensation for their financial loss and stress. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage fell into arrears. Santander took legal action. Mr and Mrs K were 
served with an eviction notice to vacate the property by mid February 2019. 
Mr and Mrs K received an offer for their property in January 2019. They say Santander was 
unreasonable and they had to apply to court to allow time for the sale to go through. Mr and 
Mrs K say Santander didn't send a redemption statement and tried to sabotage their sale. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Santander  hadn't 
acted incorrectly and had sent redemption statements out within normal timescales. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree. Mr K said the main issue was Santanders failure to send the 
redemption statement requested by their solicitors on 11 April 2019. Mr K said Santander 
had to provide proof of postage. He said Santander refused to email a copy and asked that 
we listen to phone recordings between 21 and 25 April 2019.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened? 
Mr K says the main point of their complaint is about the delays caused by his solicitor not 
receiving a redemption statement from Santander in April 2019. Mr and Mrs K also said in 
their complaint that Santander was unreasonable about allowing them time to complete their 
sale after receiving an offer in early 2019. I think some history of the account is necessary to 
understand the context of these events, but Ill keep my summary of matters prior to 2019 
brief.
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was in arrears for some time. The court granted Santander a 
suspended possession order in early 2016. Mr and Mrs K made no payments after 
September 2017. They were served with an eviction notice, with a date of eviction of 13 
February 2019.
In mid January 2019 Mr K told Santander theyd received an offer for the property, which 
was more than enough to repay the mortgage. He said he was also expecting a business payment that would allow him to clear the arrears. Santander asked for a memorandum of 
sale or proof of funds. 
Mr and Mrs K applied to court. On 6 February the court suspended the warrant for 
possession to 3 April 2019 to allow Mr and Mrs K to sell the property themselves. 
A redemption statement was requested and sent in March 2019. However the sale was 
delayed as the purchaser wanted a problem with the property title sorted out before 
exchanging contracts. Santander agreed to hold recovery action to allow time for exchange 
of contracts with completion scheduled for 24 April 2019. The problem with the title was 
corrected and Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor asked Santander for a redemption statement on 11 
April 2019. 
Santander says it sent a redemption statement by post on 17 April 2019. Mr and Mrs K say 
their solicitor didnt receive it. 
Mr K says he chased Santander for the redemption statement. Santanders notes support 
this. A copy was faxed to Mr and Mrs Ks solicitors on 25 April. A new redemption statement 
was issued the same day. The sale completed and the mortgaged was redeemed on 30 
April 2019. 
did Santander make an error?
Mr and Mrs K received an offer for their property in January 2019. They wanted Santander to 
allow them more time to sell the property. But while Mr and Mrs K had received an offer for 
the property there was no certainty the sale would complete, especially at that early stage in 
the sales process. 
Given the time that the mortgage had been in arrears, and that Mr and Mrs K hadnt made a 
payment for more than a year, I can understand why Santander didnt want to halt 
possession action until it had evidence  such as exchange of contracts or even a 
memorandum of sale  that theyd be able to repay the mortgage. The available evidence 
suggests the memorandum of sale was signed in mid February, after Mr and Mrs K 
successfully applied to court for more time to sell the property. In April 2019, Santander did 
allow Mr and Mrs K more time for their sale to complete.
This must have been a worrying time for Mr and Mrs K. But in the circumstances, I dont 
think Santanders actions were unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs Ks sale progressed, and their solicitor asked for redemption statements. 
Santander says because the account was in litigation it needed 7 to 10 working days to send 
a redemption statement as it had to get up to date costs from its solicitors. 
Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor asked for a redemption statement on 11 April and Santander says it 
sent it on 17 April. This was within its usual timescales. Its unfortunate that the redemption 
statement didnt arrive, but I dont think I can fairly find that this was due to an error by 
Santander. Santander says it was sent, and its notes support this. It didnt use a postal 
service that provides proof of postage, but there was no requirement for it to do so. 
Mr K says he called Santander to chase the redemption statement. Mr K says this was 21 
April and Santanders notes say it was 23 April. I dont think the discrepancy is material here 
as it seems unlikely much would have happened over the Easter bank holiday (Friday 19 to 
Monday 22 April). I don't need to listen to the phone calls over this period: I accept that Mr K 
chased Santander and that he asked for the redemption statement to be faxed or emailed.I appreciate Mr Ks frustration that the redemption statement issued on 17 April didnt arrive. 
And why he says Santander should have sent the redemption statement by email or fax 
when it was told it hadnt arrived. But I think its unlikely matters would have been different if 
it had.
Santander couldnt fairly be expected to have re-sent the redemption statement before 23 
April 2019, the first business day that it knew the redemption statement hadnt arrived. At 
this point, contracts for Mr and Mrs K's sale hadnt been exchanged. Mr K says contracts 
were exchanged two hours after their solicitor received the redemption statement issued on 
25 April 2019. But this was for completion on 30 April 2019. I think its unlikely the sale would 
have completed on 24 April 2019 if the redemption statement had been faxed on 23 or 24 
April 2019. If the parties to the property sale wanted a redemption statement for an agreed 
completion date before exchanging contracts (as seems to be the case), it seems likely a 
new redemption statement would have had to be issued.
It was unfortunate that Mr and Mrs Ks sale was held up, first by an issue with the property 
title, and again when the redemption statement didnt arrive. But I dont think, based on the 
available evidence, that Santander made errors which caused these delays. While Mr K says 
that Santander wanted to sabotage the property sale, theres nothing in the evidence Ive 
seen to support this.
It follows that I don't think it would be fair and reasonable to require Santander to refund any 
of the interest Mr and Mrs K incurred or pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman