DRN-4039839
The complaint
Mr R says Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr R took out a 24-month instalment loan for £2,500 from Likely Loans on 7 July 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £172.73 and the total repayable was £1,653.12.
Mr R says it was a very large, unaffordable loan and he was in financial hardship at the time. 
He had taken out a loan from Likely Loans before, but it was for a much lower amount. This 
loan has impacted his mental health and he has been unable to pay priority bills. 
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She said the lenders
checks were proportionate and showed Mr R had sufficient disposable income to afford the
loan, he had a low level of debt and he was managing his active credit well.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Likely Loans did not 
consider all of his outgoings  and he would have provided them. He was in arrears on his 
council tax, rent and utilities and he had countless returned direct debits each month.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Rs complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr R would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr R wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr R. In practice this
meant that business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause
Mr R undue difficulty.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr R.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
Likely Loans has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some
information from Mr R. It asked for his gross annual income (£24,765) and monthly housing 
costs (£330). It estimated his monthly outgoings (£579.57) using national statistics. It 
completed an income verification check and from this used a monthly income figure of 
£1,709.77. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his existing 
monthly credit commitments (£37.89). It added a buffer to his total costs of £94.75. It asked 
about the purpose of the loan which was home improvements. Based on these checks Likely 
Loans thought it was fair to lend as after taking into account this new loan repayment Mr R 
would have disposable income each month of £494.83.
I think these checks were proportionate given the term and value of the loan and the monthly
repayments in relation to Mr Rs income, and I think Likely Loans made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Likely Loans checks showed the loan would be affordable on a pounds and pence basis
and, importantly, that it was unlikely to cause Mr R any financial detriment. The credit check
Likely Loans completed didnt show any late payments in the last six months. It showed Mr R
had only £237 of active debt and that was being well managed. There was no adverse data 
such as defaults or public records in the last 36 months. I note a default had been registered 
41 months ago but I dont think it would have been fair for Likely Loans to decline Mr Rs 
application based on that historic data. There was only one search in the last six months and 
Mr R had not taken out any other loans in the previous 12 months. His use of his available 
credit was low at 22% of his limit. In the round, I think it was reasonable for Likely Loans to 
conclude Mr Rs finances were stable when he applied - and had been for some time - and 
that he would be able to repay its loan sustainably. So given there were no indicators of current financial difficulties and the fact the lenders 
affordability assessment showed Mr R would have around £490 monthly disposable income 
after taking on this loan, I dont think Likely Loans ought to have thought that there was a risk 
this loan might not be sustainably affordable for Mr R.
Mr R said in in response to the investigators assessment that he is confident he filled in all 
his outgoings as part of the application so why did Likely Loans use ONS data. But as I have 
said I think this was a reasonable and proportionate approach given the loan value and the 
results of all other checks. Also from the evidence provided it seems he only gave his 
housing costs (which it did use). To be clear, I am not doubting Mr Rs testimony that he was 
under financial stress. Rather I dont think the lenders checks suggested this was the case. 
And it would not have been proportionate for Likely Loans to have completed the depth of 
review needed to maybe discover this given the nature of this loan application.
It follows I dont think Likely Loans was wrong to give this loan to Mr R. I am sorry Mr R has 
gone onto to suffer because of financial pressures. I hope he now has the support he needs. 
Ive also thought about whether Likely Loans acted unfairly in some other way and I
havent seen any evidence that it did in relation to its initial lending decision. I note however 
Mr R also said to us that Likely Loans did not treat him fairly when he fell into arrears and it 
delayed defaulting his account which will means the default will remain on his file longer than 
it should. Likely Loans has said as Mr R did not raise this when he complained to it, it will 
now investigate further and reply to him separately. If Mr R is not happy with the lenders 
response he will be able to raise a new complaint with this service.  
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman