DRN-3284676
The complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage taken out with Aviva Equity Release UK 
Limited in 2005. The complaint is that the mortgage was mis-sold.
The complaint was originally brought in the joint names of the borrowers, Mr and Mrs W. I 
am very sorry to note Mr W has recently passed away. Mrs W is represented in the 
complaint by her daughters, Mrs G and Ms K, under a Power of Attorney. They have 
instructed solicitors to bring the complaint on Mrs Ws behalf.
To settle the complaint, Mrs G and Ms K want Aviva to cancel the mortgage without any 
early repayment charge (ERC) and to refund all interest accrued on the mortgage, as well as 
lump sums borrowed, advisers fees and any other penalties that have been applied to the 
account.
What happened
The events that led to Mr and Mrs W taking out the equity release mortgage have been set 
out in detail in the correspondence, so I wont repeat the entire history here. 
Briefly, In 2005 Mr and Mrs W contacted Aviva as they wanted advice about taking out an 
equity release mortgage. There were two meetings with Aviva. The first was on 3 August 
2005 when Mr and Mrs Ws son-in-law also attended the meeting. 
Mr and Mrs W were given a fortnight to think about what they wanted to do, following which 
there was a further meeting on 17 August 2005 (with no family member present).
At that meeting Mr and Mrs W said they wanted a lump sum to give them more disposable 
income over the next few years, which worked out at £12,000. They wanted to replace their 
car at a cost of £15,000 and pay fees and running costs for their caravan for the next five 
years, which they estimated to be £10,000. They also wanted to give money to their 
daughters and thought £20,000 would be sufficient for this. Mr and Mrs W explained that 
they had £12,000 in savings, but they didnt want to draw on this but to keep it for an 
emergency.
Mr and Mrs W were provided with two illustrations. One was for £58,000 and the other was 
for £81,200. 
The adviser recommended a mortgage of £58,000, to enable Mr and Mrs W to meet their 
objectives, and which was below the maximum amount they could borrow (£81,200, or 28% 
of the value of their home). However, Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow the full amount. The 
factfind compiled at the time of the interview records:
We have discussed the risk that by releasing the maximum loan there could be little 
or even nothing left as an inheritance if the value of your home does not continue to 
increase in the future. You have aid you understand this and accept this risk and your 
family have told you they are not concerned about their inheritance, that they just 
want you to have the money you need now.
The adviser also confirmed that £12,000 was considered excessive for an emergency fund. 
Nevertheless, Mr and Mrs W confirmed theyd discussed their plans with the family and 
wanted to go ahead with the maximum borrowing. An application was made and a mortgage 
offer was issued on 9 September 2005 for the full amount of £81,200 at a fixed interest rate 
of 6.69%. 
In common with this type of mortgage, no monthly repayments were due under 
Mr and Mrs Ws loan agreement; instead interest rolls up on a compound basis and the total 
balance of capital and interest is repayable on the death of the last surviving borrower, or 
when the last surviving borrower has to go into long-term nursing care. If the mortgage is 
repaid early, an ERC may be charged. The circumstances in which this would apply were set 
out in the mortgage illustrations (KFIs) and the mortgage offer.
Mr and Mrs W were given independent advice from their own solicitors, as was required 
under the (as it was known at the time) Safe Home Income Plan code of practice. This 
advice was to ensure Mr and Mrs W fully understood how the mortgage operated  including 
how interest is applied and compounded, and about the ERC. I note it is also recorded that 
Mr and Mrs W were given advice by their solicitor about giving money to their daughters and 
about Potentially Exempt Transfers for Inheritance Tax purposes.
The mortgage completed on 29 September 2005.
On 30 April 2021 a complaint was made to Aviva that the mortgage had been mis-sold. The 
basis of the complaint was (and I summarise) that:
the recommendation wasnt suitable for Mr and Mrs W;
they werent advised of the long-term consequences of equity release;
the recommendation letter contains a lack of evidence to support the recommendation;
the recommendation letter contains paragraphs which have been cut and pasted.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so it was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
where one of our investigators considered it. He reviewed the sales process and didnt think 
Aviva had done anything wrong.
Mrs G and Ms K asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They maintain that the 
recommendation wasnt suitable and also say that their parents never gave them any of the 
money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to note that Mr W has recently passed away, and I would like to pass on my 
condolences to Mrs W and her family. I appreciate this is a difficult time for the family, and so 
what I have to say will, I know, be unwelcome news. But after reviewing everything thats 
happened, Im unable to uphold the complaint. These are my reasons.From a technical position, the mortgage is now in Mrs Ws sole name, so I will refer solely to 
Mrs W in the context of this complaint but also, where appropriate, to Mr and Mrs W where I 
am talking about historic events.
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint. Were 
not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police her internal processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). For the 
purposes of this complaint what it means is that although Ive read the solicitors points about 
what they perceive to be regulatory breaches by Aviva in relation to this mortgage, that isnt 
something that falls within my remit.
Under our rules, Mrs W is (and Mr W was) a consumer, and so meets the definition of an 
eligible complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on 
behalf of an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or 
authorised by law. Mrs G and Ms K have brought the complaint as their mothers 
representative, with her consent.
But I must explain that, although Mrs G and Ms K are representing their mother, it is Mrs W 
who was Avivas customer at the time of the events complained about. Their role is limited to 
bringing Mrs Ws complaint on her behalf, in the same way that other consumers might 
instruct a solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle 
them to air their own grievances about Aviva, because they are not Avivas customer.
 
I note from the detailed correspondence that Mrs G and Ms K have expressed their own 
concerns about what they perceives to be Avivas failings  and I do not doubt their strength 
of feeling about this. But because they are not Avivas customer, this final decision is limited 
to consideration of Mrs Ws complaint about Aviva. 
Mr and Mrs W hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was 
only in April  2020 that a complaint was raised with Aviva by Mrs G and Ms K as Attorneys 
for their parents. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage. Without a 
specific complaint from Mr and Mrs W in their own words, I have considered generally 
whether Aviva did anything wrong when it arranged this mortgage.
This mortgage was arranged pursuant to the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (MCOB. The mortgage was also covered by the rules of what was 
then known as the Safe Home Income Plan (now the Equity Release Council). The FCA and 
the Equity Release Council are (and have always been) aware that there is potential years 
down the line for family members to raise a complaint, sometimes in circumstances where 
the borrowers themselves are no longer able  for reasons of illness or infirmity  of giving 
their own explanation for why they took out the mortgage. 
This  and the fact that equity release mortgages are sold to elderly customers  is why this 
type of mortgage is (and always has been) subject to such a robust and rigorous sales 
process, with the need for borrowers to have advice from a financial adviser, as well as from 
an independent solicitor. (In this case, the financial adviser worked for Aviva, and sold only 
Aviva products. There is nothing untoward about this, as it was disclosed at the outset.) The 
fact that Mr and Mrs W were in their early 70s at the time of the transaction doesnt give 
cause for concern. This particular product, with its strict selling standards, is intended 
precisely for elderly customers.
The advice given by Aviva was based on the information given to it by Mr and Mrs W after 
the advisor went through a detailed series of questions. The documentation is 
contemporaneous, which means it was compiled at the time Mr and Mrs W spoke to Aviva in August 2005. In the circumstances, I am entitled to treat the paperwork as an accurate 
record of what they told Aviva in 2005. Aviva was entitled to accept in good faith that what it 
was told by Mr and Mrs W was accurate and a true representation of their wishes and 
circumstances. 
Im satisfied the documentation provided to Mr and Mrs W about the mortgage explains how 
it worked, and that they also had advice from her own solicitors. The solicitors confirmed to 
Aviva that theyd explained the terms of the mortgage to Mr and Mrs W, as well as the 
implications of entering into the loan. If the solicitors had had any concerns about their ability 
to comprehend what they was doing, they were under a duty to inform Aviva and stop the 
mortgage from being completed. But it appears that neither Aviva nor Mr and Mrs Ws 
solicitors had any concerns in this regard.
Im satisfied the advice given to Mr and Mrs W was based on answers they provided to Aviva 
about their wishes, needs and circumstances. They were clear about why they didnt want to 
use their existing savings. Mr and Mrs W were entitled to make their own decision to reject 
the advisors recommendation to use some of their own savings rather than borrow the full 
amount.
Mrs G and Ms K have provided a signed statement saying that their parents didnt give them 
any of the money they borrowed. But it wasnt Avivas job to check up on Mr and Mrs W or 
police their spending to make sure theyd used it as they said they were going to. I think that 
would be considered by the regulator to be a breach of Mr and Mrs Ws privacy and grossly 
intrusive on their right to spend their own money as they wished.
Overall, the contemporaneous documentation is persuasive that the adviser recommended a 
mortgage that was suitable, but that Mr and Mrs W wanted to borrow the full amount and 
that they had clear reasons for wanting to do so. There is nothing in the available 
documentation to suggest they had any cognitive impairment or lack of understanding of 
finances. On the contrary, they kept their emergency fund in Mrs Ws name, to avoid tax, 
which shows they had a measure of financial understanding. In addition, Mr and Mrs W had 
over a month from the time of their decision before the mortgage completed to reconsider, 
discuss the matter with their family and, if theyd wanted to, change their plans. 
There has been criticism that the recommendation letter uses paragraphs that appear to 
have been cut and pasted. However, its not unusual for advisers to use standard 
paragraphs to explain how a product works. Ive looked at the letter of recommendation and 
there is nothing that gives me cause for concern or leads me to conclude that the adviser 
didnt provide Mr and Mrs W with all the information that was required about the product.  
The KFI and the mortgage offer also set out in detail how the mortgage worked and, as Ive 
mentioned above, Mr and Mrs W had advice from their own solicitors about this before 
completion.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mrs W, Mrs G and Ms K were hoping for, but after giving 
the matter very careful consideration, Im unable to find Aviva has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman