DRN-3789244
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct), 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr W opened a shopping account with Shop Direct in October 2019. At that point his credit 
limit was set at £500. It was increased twice  in November 2020 to £800 and in November 
2021 to £1,800. In March 2022 it was reduced to £150.
 
Mr W, through his representative, says that its possible Shop Direct didnt take reasonable 
steps to assess his ability to make repayments in a sustainable manner couldnt afford the 
credit and that if Shop Direct had done proportionate checks on his financial situation it 
would have realised he couldnt pay it back in a sustainable way. Mr W say she has incurred 
charges as a result of financial difficulty.
Shop Direct says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr W and before it 
increased Mr Ws credit limit and that it acted appropriately and fairly.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that Shop 
Direct did reasonable checks to begin with but when Mr Ws credit was increased Shop 
Direct ought to have asked Mr W for more information about his income. Our adjudicator 
asked Mr W, through his representative, for copies of his bank statements or payslips to help 
them better understand what Shop Direct might have seen if it had done proportionate 
checks. This information wasnt received. So our adjudicator concluded that he could not 
safely say if Shop Direct had done more checks it would have seen information which would 
have indicated it shouldnt increase Mr Ws credit limit.
Mr W, through his representative, did not agree. But he didnt provide the information 
requested or explain why he disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ws complaint.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Mr Ws income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Shop Direct has provided copies of the checks it did when the account was opened. There 
was no evidence of any recent arrears or defaults on other credit, or any County Court 
Judgements or debt management plans. So I think in the early days of the relationship Shop 
Direct did sufficient checks and didnt see anything that might have made it consider Mr W 
couldnt afford the credit. I havent seen anything to suggest the credit was unaffordable for 
Mr W.
It is arguable that later in the relationship, before further credit limit increases were provided, 
Shop Direct should have sought more information from Mr W about his circumstances. He 
used almost all of his available credit in the first month after the account opening. His first 
payment towards the new borrowing was below the minimum repayment but he brought it up 
to date with a large payment the following month. Similarly, Mr W didnt make a payment in 
February 2020 but he cleared the balance in full in March 2020. 
Mr W then used a large portion of the limit the following month and made a repayment below 
the minimum required in May 2020. However, in the months up to November 2020 he made 
payments above the minimum required. 
In November 2020 Mr Ws credit limit was increased to £800. Although Mr W had 
demonstrated he could clear the full balance with large payments  and there was no 
significant change in his credit file  I think given the slightly erratic nature of the earlier 
repayments following account opening, it would have been reasonable and proportionate for 
Shop Direct to seek a better understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances, including 
verifying his income  for example, by asking to see his bank statements or payslips.
To help us understand what Shop Direct might have seen if it had asked for such 
information, our investigator asked Mr W through his representative to provide his bank 
statements and evidence of his income from August 2020 to November 2020. No information 
was received, so I cant fairly say that Shop Direct acted unfairly in providing the increased 
credit. While Mr W provided a copy of his credit file when he first brought his complaint to 
this service, it didnt provide any information which may have helped my understand his 
wider financial circumstances at the relevant times. 
Mr W cleared his balance in full in November 2020 but again used almost all of his new, 
higher credit limit by January 2021. He was making payments far above the minimum 
required, sometimes three time more than he needed to. He cleared his entire balance 
between May and July 2021. In November 2021 Shop Direct increased his limit to £1,800. 
This represented a significant increase, the repayments on which may have taken 
significantly more of his income if he used it in full. I think reasonable checks by Shop Direct 
would have included asking about his regular income and expenditure. And it should have 
taken into account Mr Ws circumstances from earlier checks to ensure the account 
remained affordable. 
Mr W was asked to provide information including his bank statements and evidence of his 
income in the three months leading up to the second credit limit increase. Again, we did not 
receive this, so I cant safely say what Shop Direct might have seen if it had completed more 
detailed checks and I cant fairly say Shop Direct did anything wrong which might have 
caused a loss to Mr W.
Following our investigators initial view, Mr W, through his representative, disagreed with the 
outcome. But he didnt explain what he thought was wrong about the view and nor did he provide the information requested. So, I dont think there is any reason to depart from our 
investigators view.
It may be that Mr W has a current outstanding balance on his account. If this is the case, 
Shop Direct is reminded that they are required to treat Mr W fairly if he is experiencing 
financial difficulties. This may be in the form of an agree payment arrangement. If Mr W is 
unable to reach such an agreement with Shop Direct he should complain directly to Shop 
Direct. If no resolution can be agreed, Mr W can bring that complaint to this service at a later 
date. 
In summary, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that had Shop Direct completed 
proportionate checks it would have seen anything which might have made it act differently 
and not provide the original lending or credit limit increases. And I cant say that Mr W lost 
out as a result of anything Shop Direct might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint, so it follows that Shop Direct Limited doesnt have to do 
anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman