DRN-3520036
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy as he believes that American Express Services Europe Limited (AmEx) 
have recorded a default on his credit file with an incorrect date.
What happened
Mr H noticed that AmEx had reported a default on his credit file with a date of default several 
months after hed made his last payment towards the account. Mr H felt that the date of 
default should be the date of the last payment that hed made, and that by reporting the 
default as having occurred several months after that date, AmEx were responsible for 
maintaining the reporting of the default on his credit file after the time that the six year period 
for which defaults are reported should reasonably have ended. So, he raised a complaint.
AmEx looked at Mr Hs complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr H 
or made in error in how theyd reported the default, and they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
H wasnt satisfied with AmExs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that AmEx had 
acted unfairly in how theyd reported the default, and so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear that Mr H believes that the date of the default should be the date 
that he made the last payment towards the account. However, this isnt the case. 
What happens when an account holder no longer makes payments towards a credit account 
is that that account falls into a state of arrears. Many times, an account will only be in a state 
of arrears temporarily, with the account holder able to make the arrears payments necessary 
to recover the position of the account within a reasonable period of time.
In instances where an account holder doesnt make the necessary arrears payments, such 
that the account continues to remain in a position of arrears, the account provider  in this 
case AmEx  may use their commercial judgement to default the account.
Before defaulting an account, the account provider must issue a series of formal 
communications to the account holder confirming that the account is in a position of arrears 
and that the account provider intends to default the account if the account arrears arent 
cleared by a given date. And if the account arrears arent cleared by that given date, then the 
account provider can then begin the process of defaulting the account.
Importantly, the date of default isnt backdated, but is considered as being from whatever 
date the account provider processes the default following the account arrears not being 
repaid by the account holder by the date given in the default notice.
Theres no set date by which an account must be defaulted, although the guidelines 
provided by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) suggest that notice of intention to 
default should be provided to an account holder when an account has fallen three or more 
months into arrears.
There then follows the default notice period, which gives the account holder a final 
opportunity to recover the position of their account, and there is also then usually a period 
after that notice period expires during which the account provider processes and applies the 
default. This often results in a date of default being in the region of six to eight months after 
the last payment was received on an account.
In this instance, the date of default as recorded by AmEx was approximately eight months 
after the date that Mr H made his last payment to the account. And having reviewed the 
process undertaken by AmEx in defaulting this account, Im satisfied that the date of default 
that was applied to this account in this instance wasnt unfair or unreasonable. 
It follows therefore that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing AmEx to take any 
further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr H was wanting, but I trust hell understand, given 
all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. Further information about 
the guidelines surrounding the process of defaulting an account can be found on the ICO 
website.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman