DRN-2500242
The complaint
Mrs G complains that the loans provided to her by Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending 
Stream were not affordable. She says that had adequate checks taken place the loans 
wouldnt have been provided.
What happened
Based on the information provided, Mrs G took out 10 instalment loans with Lending Stream 
between May 2017 and September 2019.
Loan Date Repaid Amount
1 02/05/2017 30/10/2017 £150.00
2 06/11/2017 28/03/2018 £150.00
3 13/11/2017 28/03/2018 £150.00
4 09/12/2017 28/03/2018 £100.00
5 03/04/2018 23/05/2018 £650.00
6 11/09/2018 05/10/2018 £730.00
7 15/04/2019 06/06/2019 £150.00
8 01/06/2019 29/11/2019 £400.00
9 06/07/2019 31/12/2019 £290.00
10 03/09/2019 28/02/2020 £170.00
Mrs G says that she was struggling to pay her essential bills at the time of the loans. She 
says she entered a cycle where she needed to borrow more to meet her repayments. She 
believes that if Lending Stream had carried out adequate checks before the loans were 
provided it would have realised the lending wasnt affordable.
Lending Stream says that before each loan was provided it checked if Mrs G was working 
and confirmed her monthly income. It then asked Mrs G about her monthly expenses and 
compared these to independent data sources and, if required, adjusted the expenses figure 
upwards to ensure a reasonable amount was used in its affordability calculation. It asked 
about other financial commitments and checked this against Mrs Gs credit file. Based on 
these checks is says the loans provided were affordable for Mrs G.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted there was a significant gap in the 
lending between loans 6 and 7 and so thought the lending fell into two lending chains  
loans 1 to 6 and loans 7 to 10. He said that there wasnt anything in the information Mrs G 
provided or the information Lending Stream shouldve been aware of, which meant it 
wouldve been proportionate to start verifying the information Mrs G had provided. He did 
think further checks should have taken place before the later loans were provided but said 
that he hadnt seen anything to suggest that had this happened Lending Stream would have 
been aware these loans werent sustainably affordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans, the amounts lent or the period over 
which Mrs G was borrowing meant that her lending history alone shouldve shown the 
lending was unsustainable. 
Mrs G didnt accept our adjudicators view. She said that she was experiencing extreme 
financial difficulties at the time of the loans and her credit file showed this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Mrs G could sustainably repay her loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Gs complaint.Mrs G took out the first loan with Lending Stream in May 2017. The loan was for £150 
repayable over six months. Before the loan was provided information was gathered about 
Mrs Gs income and expenses. At this stage in the lending relationship I find it reasonable 
that the information provided was relied on, although I note the additional checks Lending 
Stream says it undertook. As the information gathered suggested the loan repayments were 
affordable for Mrs G I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs G repaid the first loan and took out a second loan a week later for the same amount. At 
this time, Mrs G reported an increased income (up from £1,350 to £1,450) and reduced 
expenses. While the fall in the expenses amount could have raised concerns, I do not find at 
this stage in the lending relationship that further checks were required, and I do not find it 
unreasonable that the information provided was relied on. As this suggested the loan was 
affordable I do not find I can say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 3 was provided while loan 2 was still outstanding. However, having combined the 
repayment amounts due under the loans, I still do not find that this should have raised 
concerns at this time.
By loan 4, I think that further checks should have been carried out. Loan 4 was taken out 
while the two previous loans were still outstanding. This could have raised concerns about 
how Mrs G was managing her money. I have looked at the credit file provided and can see 
that Mrs G had previously defaulted on accounts but that these defaults were historic. I also 
note that Lending Stream had noted the previous defaults in its credit checks and so it 
seems these were taken into account. Other accounts that had fallen into arrears had also 
been settled before Mrs G started borrowing from Lending Stream. Therefore, based on the 
information I have seen I do not find I have enough to say that Lending Stream should have 
been aware that the lending wasnt affordable to Mrs G and so I do not find I have enough 
evidence to say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mrs G then repaid the outstanding loans and took out a much larger loan in April 2018 
(£650). Again, this was repayable over six monthly instalments. Mrs G repaid this loan early 
in May 2018. She then had a gap in her borrowing of over three months before she took out 
loan 6 for £730. Before these loans were provided I think further checks should have taken 
place. But as set out above, based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have 
enough to say these loans shouldnt have been provided. 
While Mrs G had taken out six loans at this time, and I think Lending Stream should have 
been concerns about her borrowing and carried out further checks, I do not find, on balance, 
at this stage I can say that Mrs Gs pattern of borrowing alone meant that Lending Stream 
should have considered the lending unsustainable. This is because although the amounts 
were increasing, Mrs G had a gap in her borrowing between loans 5 and 6 and while I dont 
think this was substantial enough to say that a new lending chain had started, it think it does 
mean that a pattern of dependency  while possibly developing - wasnt clear at that time.
Loan 6 was repaid early, less than a month after it was taken out. Mrs G then didnt borrow 
again from Lending Stream until just over six months later. I have considered the gap in 
Mrs Gs borrowing against the period she had been borrowing from Lending Stream. I have 
also noted her borrowing patterns before the gap and note that she repaid both loans 5 and 
6 early and there was a gap between these loans which hadnt been the case with the earlier 
loans. Having considered this and noting the six months between when loan 6 was repaid 
and loan 7 taken out, I think it is reasonable to say this was a substantial break in lending 
and so loan 7 should be considered as the start of a new lending chain.
Loan 7 was for £150 and was repayable over six monthly instalments. Mrs G repaid this loan 
early but before doing so took out a larger loan with Lending Stream. As these were the first two loans in the lending chain, I find the checks carried out before they were provided were 
reasonable and as these suggested the loans were affordable I do not find I can say the 
loans shouldnt have been provided.
Loan 9 was taken out before loan 8 was repaid (loan 7 had been repaid a month earlier). I 
think further checks should have been carried out before this, and loan 10, were provided. 
However, based on the information I have seen, I do not find I have enough to say that had 
further checks taken place Lending Stream would have realised these loans werent 
sustainably affordable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman