DRN-4478988
The complaint
Mr B complains One Insurance Limited referred him to an accident management company 
(AMC) for credit hire and repair when he called to claim on his car insurance policy.
Mr B is represented in this matter by his wife, Mrs B. However, for ease, Ill refer to Mr B 
throughout this decision.
What happened
In October 2022, Mr B was involved in an accident in his car with a third party, so he called 
their claims number. The call was answered by another company who, as well as handling 
these calls, are also an accident management company (AMC).
Rather than claiming on his insurance policy Mr B was referred to the AMC for it to carry out 
the repairs to his car and claim the money back from the third partys insurer. Mr B explained 
hes experienced poor service leading to issues including significant delays in receiving the 
settlement sum, early return of the hire car and poor communication. 
The AMC also arranged a hire car for Mr B, which was also going to be charged to the third 
party. As Mr Bs car couldnt be repaired it was deemed what is known as a total loss. Mr B 
complained about how the AMC handled the claim and the significant and long lasting the 
impact its poor service has had on him and Mrs B. 
Unhappy with the AMCs response, Mr B brought his complaint to this service for an 
independent review and a complaint was set up against OIL. 
Our Investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended it be upheld, asking OIL to pay 
£300 as compensation for the distress caused and 8% interest on the settlement sum given 
it likely wouldve been settled much sooner than it was if the claim had been made within the 
insurance policy. 
OIL didnt accept the Investigators outcome. It said at the point of agreeing to the credit hire 
and repair, Mr B was made aware of the potential of the cost falling back on him. He was 
also given the full details of the agreement which he signed. So, if he was concerned, OIL 
considered Mr B had every opportunity to claim against his insurance policy instead.
As OIL didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision as set out below on 15 November 2023. 
Im currently intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and require OIL to put things right as set 
out below. Ill explain why.
The responsibilities of OIL
Before I address the merits of this complaint, its first important to set out the parties involved 
and OILs responsibilities, to make clear what I can look at in this decision.
OIL has delegated the claims call handing to the AMC. So, when Mr B called OIL to report 
the damage to his car, he was transferred to the AMC to handle the call on OILs behalf. This 
means the AMC was acting as OILs agent for this portion of the call. And OIL is responsible 
for the AMCs actions or omissions during this call when they discussed Mr Bs claim and 
referred him for credit hire and repair.
OILs responsibility for the AMCs actions is limited to when the AMC were acting on OILs 
behalf - OIL is not directly responsible for any actions or failures of the AMC outside of this. 
In other words, the AMC was acting in its own capacity when handling Mr Bs claim, not on 
behalf of OIL. And I dont have jurisdiction to consider the AMCs actions.
So, in relation to OIL and the AMC, Im only considering what happened during the call 
between Mr B and the AMC (acting on OILs behalf) when he was referred for credit hire and 
repair and whether the AMC, as OILs agent, met the required standards for that referral. 
The relevant regulatory and other requirements
As Mr Bs insurer handling the claim, OIL was obliged to give Mr B information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading under Principle 7 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN 2.1R The 
Principles) and ICOBS 2.2.2. 
In this case, it means when Mr B contacted OIL to tell them about his non-fault claim, it 
needed to give him clear information about his options so he could decide how best to 
proceed with his claim. OIL was also required to do the following. 
-Pay due regard to the interests of Mr B as their customer and treat him fairly 
(Principle 6 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN 2.1R)).
-Act honestly, fairly, and professionally in accordance with the best interests of their 
customer (ICOBS 2.5.-1R).
-Take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of their advice if any recommendations 
were made (Principle 9 of the FCA Handbook (PRIN2.1R).
OIL appointed the AMC to fulfil this task on its behalf. However, in line with ICOBS 2.5.3G, a
firm cannot delegate its responsibility under the regulatory system when relying on others. 
This means it retains regulatory responsibility for achieving the outcome required. Therefore, 
OIL is ultimately still responsible for making sure its regulatory obligations are met by any 
third parties acting on its behalf. 
If I find the AMC didnt meet the relevant regulatory requirements during the call when it 
referred Mr B for credit hire and repair, OIL would be held responsible.
The referral call
Ive listened to the referral call and considered whether OIL met the relevant regulatory 
requirements. During the call, the call handler at the AMC says the following.
So obviously with this being a non-fault accident where youve been hit from behind, 
we can take it on through our Accident Management Company. Its also just another 
company thats owned by us. But it just means that you dont have to pay your 
excess and provided theres no issues with liability youll get a hire car with all cost to 
be recovered from at fault insurerso its just as opposed to going through your 
insurance where you pay your excess and it will be like a fault accident on your policy 
until proved otherwise, the accident management company is a business thats been 
brought in to eliminate that whole process. So you dont have to pay excess from the 
start because its obviously a 100% a non-fault accident.Mr B asked about the pre-recorded message played when calling up to talk to the AMC 
which explained Mr B could ultimately be held responsible for the hire car charges. The call 
handler confirmed hed only be responsible for those costs if it was deemed to be an at fault 
accident, but, in their situation, the call handler said there wouldnt be any liability as their car 
was hit from behind. Mr B is clear when discussing this with the AMC  the excess isnt 
substantial and, although a courtesy car is useful, he doesnt want to be in a situation where 
theres any risk of him being liable for charges and would rather use public transport instead 
of having this risk. Mr B explained he was cautious and talked about the negative reviews 
hed seen of people whod been held liable for the credit hire costs but was told this wouldnt 
be the case in his claim. The call handler reassured Mr B  unless youve given false 
information about the claim or if you dont sign forms in time - theres no reason why 
anything would fall back on you. 
While I agree the AMC explains Mr B could claim through the AMC, Im not persuaded it 
presented the information about this in a clear, fair and not misleading way. This is for 
several reasons including the following.
-It didnt go far enough to explain the differences to Mr B about the options available 
or ask which option he would like to choose. 
-It said the policy excess wouldnt be due if Mr B used the AMC but it would if he 
claimed through his policy. This isnt the full position as he may have been able to 
claim his excess back from the third partys insurer as an uninsured loss, even if he 
claimed through his own insurance policy. 
-The only drawback the call handler discussed about claiming the costs back directly 
from the third partys insurer  and this was only when asked about it - was where the 
consumer has given false information or doesnt sign and return something as quickly 
as they should. But recovering the costs from the third-party insurer isnt guaranteed 
even where Mr B isnt deemed to be at fault for the accident. And, if this was the 
position, Mr B could become liable for those credit hire costs which would likely be 
much higher than the policy excess.
-I cant say OIL established Mr B needed to follow the credit hire and repair option or it 
was suitable for him. Even if I accept Mr B had a need for a car and credit hire was 
one way to get one, it wasnt the only option as the costs of Mr B hiring a car directly 
couldve been claimed back from the third partys insurer in a similar way to the 
excess or he couldve used a courtesy car until the car was declared a total loss. 
-It doesnt let Mr B know OIL isnt responsible for the actions of the AMC.
-OIL didnt explain a key downside to not claiming on his insurance policy and dealing 
with the AMC as a separate company meant Mr B was stepping outside of his 
regulated contract and dealing with an unregulated company. Practically, this means 
he doesnt have the same routes available if things go wrong with the AMC. 
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded OIL presented information about the 
options Mr B had in a clear, fair and not misleading way. Given the call handler highlighted 
the main benefits of credit hire, she ought also to have highlighted the key risks, to present 
Mr B with a balanced view of his options and allow him to make an informed choice how to 
proceed. Mr B says if this had happened, he wouldve chosen to use his insurance policy. 
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Bs complaint. This is because I dont think he wouldve 
agreed to the referral to the AMC if hed been given the clear, fair and not misleading 
information he shouldve about his options by OIL. If Mr B hadnt stepped outside his motor 
insurance contract, I think it more likely he wouldve avoided some of the distress and 
inconvenience hes been put through with the AMC. By way of an example, the referral to 
the AMC has led to significant delays, mistakes being made by the AMC and generally poor 
service below the standard Mr B couldve reasonably expected from his insurance company.So, but for the referral by OIL to the AMC - which Ive already found fell below the required 
standard - its my view Mr B wouldve avoided some of the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced. Therefore, OIL should put right the impact of its referral by following the steps 
outlined below.
Whilst I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about the matter, its important to explain that, as 
an informal dispute resolution service, our awards are designed to compensate consumers, 
not punish, or deter organisations. And were not able to ask a business to change its 
processes or consider whether other consumers who havent complained to our service 
have been impacted. That would be for the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) as the 
regulator. 
Whilst I can only consider the referral to the AMC in this complaint about OIL, Mr B can 
contact the AMC directly and follow its own complaints process if he thinks its actions 
caused him problems that still need to be addressed. And he may also refer his concerns 
about OIL to the FCA.
Finally, I note Mr B has expressed considerable concern about his potential liability for the 
credit hire costs and says the worry of this keeps him and Mrs B awake at night. I genuinely 
empathise with this situation. However, its important to explain my role is to consider the 
poor referral and impact of this as it stands at the time of writing this decision. And, at the 
moment, Mr B isnt being chased for any credit hire fees nor is he able to find out if he will be 
from the AMC. Therefore, this isnt a known loss which I would make an award for at this 
point as I consider the loss is speculative and I dont have sufficient information about the 
loss and the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs liability for the same. 
If Mr B is pursued at a later date, and it relates to the same issue weve considered in this 
matter - the poor referral - I dont think its likely something this service can (or will) consider. 
That said, Im not able to determine our services jurisdiction or decision on the merits of a 
future case when dealing with this matter. However, if the AMC seeks to recover credit hire 
costs from Mr B in the future and those costs arose due to something OIL did or failed to do 
which Mr B hasnt already complained about with OIL (and it doesnt relate to the poor 
referral), it may be possible for Mr B to raise a further complaint with OIL in the first 
instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B responded to accept the decision. OIL hasnt responded. It follows my final decision 
reflects my provisional decision, as set out above, and I uphold Mr Bs complaint in this 
matter. I set out below how OIL should put things right as a result.
 
Putting things right
To put things right, One Insurance Limited needs to pay to Mr B the following:
- £300 as compensation distress and inconvenience for the poor referral to the AMC 
itself and the distress and inconvenience suffered because of it; and
- 8% simple interest per annum on the claim settlement from one month after the date 
of loss until the date the total loss settlement was paid to Mr B. This is because I 
consider one month to have been a reasonable time in which OIL wouldve settled a 
total loss claim had Mr B not been referred to the AMC.*If One Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr 
B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
One Insurance Limited needs to take the steps outlined above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman