DRN-4274482
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (RSI) who 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H were victims of a multi-person burglary of their outbuilding, in which around 
£18,000 worth of items were stolen. They made a claim to RSI, under their home insurance 
policy. 
RSI appointed a loss adjuster to assess the loss, but, as Mr and Mrs H hadnt specified any 
of the stolen property, RSI declined the claim. The reason for the decline was that RSI said 
that the policy clearly defined that an item that can be taken from the home and was a 
personal possession, had to be specified on the policy. And as the stolen items hadnt been 
specified, RSI said that it was reasonable for it to decline the claim. 
RSI also said that throughout Mr and Mrs Hs customer journey, they were given 
opportunities to update their cover, which they didnt do. As Mr and Mrs H were given their 
referral rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said 
that having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, she felt that they were ambiguous. She 
believed that RSI werent responsible for all the incurred losses, but were responsible to 
cover the losses, up to the policy limit of £5,000. She also said that RSI werent responsible 
for any losses caused to the other outbuilding that Mr and Mrs H, didnt cover. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted the view. RSI did not. It said that it didnt think that the terms were 
ambiguous, and it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint, and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 6 June 2023 and asked both parties to send me anything else by 4 
July 2023. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint. I understand that this is likely to be 
a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, but I hope my provisional findings explain why I think this 
is fair. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties, as well as the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the main issue of this complaint is whether RSI was fair to decline the 
claim. And whether the policy terms were ambiguous.
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, especially the schedule and policy wording. 
On page six of the document, the term states: The contents of the house and garage that 
remain in the house that you own or are legally responsible for and the contents of the 
outbuilding (up to a maximum of £5,000 contents replacement). The term then goes on to 
explain what perils are covered and what the obligations are for each party. 
Under the theft peril, the obligation for Mr and Mrs H is that they would be responsible for the 
first £400 of any claim that RSI accepts. And anything over £1,500 for any single item plus 
any damage. I think its clear that the obligations for any damage or loss due to theft, where 
any single item is more than £1,500 and for the first £400, lies with Mr and Mrs H. So, it 
seems in very limited circumstances that RSI would be responsible for the replacement of 
items that have been stolen. 
But, having reviewed the terms further, the policy provides the following: 
Unspecified Personal Possessions: Your items that You can or do take outside the 
house.which includes any bikes, laptop computers, tablet devices, games consoles, 
phones, handbags, jewellery, watches, sports equipment and musical instruments that You 
own or are legally responsible for. We pay for:  Nil; You pay for:  All costs and expenses as 
cover not selected.
Ive thought about what this means. And I think that RSI have specified that unspecified 
personal possessions (which include musical instruments and sports equipment) will not be 
covered. Cover will only be applicable where it is selected, as part of the policy. So, the 
obligations under the policy for Mr and Mrs H would be that they are responsible for all costs 
and expenses. 
I have also reviewed Mr and Mrs Hs customer journey to see if there was any ambiguity at 
the point of sale. Based on what Ive read, I dont think there was, and Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H were specifically asked if there were items that leave their home and were 
worth more than £400. There was a drop-down menu that then allowed them to include all 
the items that they wanted to have covered. Mr and Mrs H chose not to select this cover. 
In addition, there were three more questions that Mr and Mrs H were asked on the price 
comparison website prior to being directed to the RSI website. Each of those questions 
asked if they wished for additional cover to insure various personal belongings, such as 
bikes, laptops, any belongings worth over £1,000 and any personal belongings away from 
the home. I cant see that Mr and Mrs H selected cover for these either. 
RSI said that had they selected the additional cover, an additional premium would be 
charged. But it wasnt, as the cover wasnt selected. Consequently, I think that Mr and Mrs H 
had been given at least two opportunities, during their customer journey, to select the 
additional cover, which they chose not to do. 
Further, I note that once the policy documents had been received, there was another 
opportunity to select the additional cover (if they chose to). The documents clearly advise the 
policyholder to read and to ensure that the cover was suitable for their needs. If the cover 
wasnt suitable for their needs, they had the opportunity to make changes to the cover on the 
online customer portal. I cant see that Mr and Mrs H did this.Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr and Mrs H will be, 
currently, I dont think that the policy document or the customer journey questions were 
ambiguous. I cant see that Mr and Mrs H selected the additional cover, that was required by 
them. Consequently, I think RSI were fair to decline the claim. Accordingly, I wont be able to 
reasonably ask RSI to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
Responses to my provisional decision
RSI accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs H made a number of detailed comments. Essentially, they did not agree with my 
provisional decision. I have carefully considered all of the comments that Mr and Mrs H have 
made. But, as an informal dispute resolution service, it isnt necessary for us to address 
each, and every point raised. I hope that Mr and Mrs H dont take exception to this. I have 
outlined a summary of the comments they have made.
Mr and Mrs H said in their comments: 
The customer journey clearly was ambiguous to me, given the high value of items I believed 
to be insured in my outbuilding, and I had no reason to ever believe that the RSI Contents 
policy was unsuitable for my needs as explained in great detail above. It is a simple 
argument that requiring Personal Possessions additional cover for any items that can be 
removed from the house suggests that the standard contents policy offered by RSI has 
absolutely no value and therefore is delivering no cover for a fee requested. This could be 
argued in a court of law as misdirection and potentially fraud since it is obtaining money by 
deceiving customers that they are providing a service to which they have no intention to 
uphold as per their own policy wording. 
In summary, I believe taking a home contents policy should provide me with insurance cover 
for theft and fire for my contents whilst at home. RSI have not provided this cover claiming 
intricate reasoning that does not stand the test of common sense or substantiate itself in the 
adequate provision of consumer financial services and as such I will escalate as necessary 
against the Ombudsman findings given the lack of consumer protection poorly upheld in this 
case.
Given the further comments I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions, which are the 
contract between Mr and Mrs H and RSI. The terms outline the obligations for both parties. It 
also gives definitions which start at page 12 of the policy schedule and policy wording 
document. Under the section entitled: Meaning of words and terms it gives the definition of 
what the policy defines as a home:
The private residence, normally occupied by you and insured person(s) as a principle or 
holiday home, located in the territorial limit at the following address.
I have considered what this means. And I think that the relevant words in this definition are 
private residence. Mr and Mrs H explained that it was their outbuilding that had been 
burgled and the items stolen, from that outbuilding. The definition of home makes it clear that 
it relates to a private residence. An outbuilding is not a private residence. 
The term goes on to state: normally occupied. Again, I dont think that an outbuilding is a 
place that is normally occupied, as a private residence. I say that, as this is important as Mr and Mrs Hs comments appear not to have addressed 
this important definition and indeed the reason why RSI declined their claim. The items were 
not kept in the home, they had been kept in the outbuilding. Consequently, those items were 
items that could be or had been removed from the home. 
Ive next considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments regarding the cover of unspecified 
possessions. Mr and Mrs H said: 
No single item was specified since no single item stolen had a value over £1500 as required 
by RSI in the process of choosing cover, and therefore the Ombudsman statement above is 
not relevant and technically incorrect since RSI WOULD be responsible for the replacement 
of items that have been stolen for items below £1500 each and for a total beyond the excess 
of £400. As such this argument should be discounted and withdrawn
I explained in the provisional decision that there was another term within the policy that 
states: 
Unspecified Personal Possessions: Your items that You can or do take outside the 
house.which includes any bikes, laptop computers, tablet devices, games consoles, 
phones, handbags, jewellery, watches, sports equipment and musical instruments that You 
own or are legally responsible for. 
We pay for: Nil; 
You pay for: All costs and expenses as cover not selected
Mr and Mrs H didnt select additional cover. Which they accept. The term states that as 
cover was not selected by them for the items that had been stolen, then RSI would not be 
responsible for cover. It clearly states that Mr and Mrs H would be liable for all costs and 
expenses as the cover was not selected for certain items. Those items (such as the musical 
instruments or sports equipment) were ones that had been stolen. 
So, to reiterate, I think that RSI has outlined those unspecified personal possessions (which 
include musical instruments and sports equipment) will not be covered. Cover will only be 
applicable where it is selected, as part of the policy. So, the obligations under the policy for 
Mr and Mrs H would be that they are responsible for all costs and expenses for those items 
that had been stolen.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. And I understand that they will be disappointed with the final 
decision. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I cant agree that RSI were 
unfair or unreasonable to decline their claim. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman