DRN-3244829
The complaint
Mrs and Mr B complain that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax suspended a transfer from 
Mr Bs account, placed restrictions on his account, and then caused them inconvenience and 
distress by asking them to attend a branch to sort it out. 
 
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs B tried to make a payment of £25000 to another persons account 
from Mr Bs account as she operates her husbands online banking and does his business 
accounts. There were sufficient funds in his account. 
The transfer was suspended that day pending fraud checks. Mrs and Mr B say they made 
repeated attempts to call Halifax that day but were unable to get through. As it was a Friday, 
they tried to make the payment again on the following Monday but were unable to. They then 
rang Halifax again and managed to speak to the fraud team. 
Mrs and Mr B say that they felt the call handler was unreasonable and that despite 
answering all the questions, they were asked to go to the nearest branch and provide 
identification. The nearest branch is 16 miles away. 
Mrs and Mr B went to the branch. They told us that they spent hours waiting while a member 
of staff spoke to the fraud department and sorted it out. They had to pay parking charges 
and say they were made to feel like criminals. The transfer was made that day. 
Mrs and Mr B are elderly, and they feel that being asked to travel 16 miles to a branch during 
the pandemic was unreasonable. 
Halifax issued their final response in December 2021. They confirmed that following the 
attempted payment of £25000 it was referred for further checks and the online banking 
facility had been automatically suspended.  They said that they didnt feel that the call 
handler was rude to Mrs and Mr B and that because of the need to protect customers 
accounts and money, sometimes it is necessary to ask customers to visit branches with 
identification to complete banking requests.  
Mrs and Mr B brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs and Mr Bs complaint. He thought that Halifax had 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner.  
Mrs and Mr B disagreed with our investigators view and have asked for an ombudsmans 
decision which is why it has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all the case notes, listened to the call, and considered Mrs and Mr Bs 
testimony. 
The financial service regulator, the FCA, requires all financial institutions to take reasonable 
steps to defend themselves and their customers against financial crime. The rise of 
cybercrime in recent years has meant that often additional checks are necessary in order to 
process online payments, especially if they are large, or to a new payee. 
In this case, the attempted payment generated the need for additional checks. When Mr B 
spoke to the call handler, the identity checks were completed successfully, but when the call 
handler asked Mr B if he still wanted the £25000 payment released, Mr B said Were not 
asking you to release £25000, I dont know where youve got that idea from. It was a transfer 
done last week that has completed. The money is in the mans account  he rang me to tell 
me the money was in the account last week  youve got your wires crossed here mate..  As 
a result of Mr Bs comments, the call handler was concerned about this payment and asked 
Mr and Mrs B to go into the branch to sort it out.   
Having listened to the call, I am satisfied that in view of the response given by Mr B that  
there were no payments pending, the call handler was not in a position to release the 
payment, and by asking Mrs and Mr B to attend the branch he was acting in the best interest 
of his customer to protect his finances. 
I have taken on board that Mr B has said in the call that his wife manages all his online 
banking, but ultimately he is responsible for the transactions on his own account, and it 
appeared that the call handler was concerned that he didnt have a full understanding of 
what was happening with those transactions.  
I also appreciate that Mrs and Mr B had a long journey to branch, and that this has 
inconvenienced them. However, I dont think in the circumstances the request was 
unreasonable. 
In view of the above I wont be recommending that Halifax do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Bs complaint 
about Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman