DRN-3688114
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way The Baxendale Insurance Company handled a claim against 
his marine insurance policy. 
Reference to Baxendale include their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here. In my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
In summary, Mr R moved from the United Kingdom to France in 2021. He took out insurance 
with Baxendale to insure his household items whilst being moved to his new address. 
Unfortunately, 32 items were damaged during the moving process, so he raised a claim. 
Baxendale accepted the claim and cash settled part of it in October 2021. The settlement 
didnt include the more expensive items Mr R claims were damaged. Mr R says he thought 
the initial settlement was too low, but felt he had no other option but to accept it. He also 
says the remaining claim settlement for the other items remains outstanding and wasnt 
happy with the way things were handled. So, he approached our service. 
I issued my provisional decision on 27 July 2022, which set out the following: 
Settlement one 
Settlement one was paid to Mr R in October 2021. As all parties are aware of what items 
were included within settlement one, I wont list them here. 
The policy says Baxendale can choose to pay a policyholder a cash settlement to reflect any
damage caused. Thats what happened here  although some items were damaged, they
were still usable  even though Mr R decided to replace some items in any event. So, I think
Baxendale applied the policy terms fairly.
There is, however, one item I think Baxendale should cover the full insured value for, which
is the office chair.
Baxendale says the office chair is usable and provided a photo to substantiate this. Whilst
this photo shows the chair upright, Mr R says he couldnt sit back on it or use the armrests. I
find this plausible given all parties agree the chair was damaged. So, Ill be directing
Baxendale to meet the remaining costs for this, plus interest, as Mr R has since replaced
this.
As above, although the remaining items suffered cosmetic damage, they were usable
following this, so Im satisfied Baxendale settled the rest of this aspect of the settlement fairly
 other than the office chair.
Settlement two
Settlement two I understand included items 14, 15, 16 and 24 on the household goods list.
Item 14 was repairable, so Baxendale offered to cover the cost of repairs by paying the
repairer directly, as was item 15. Item 16 I understand Mr R was offered the full insured
value of, which totalled £1,000, but this hasnt yet been paid. And item 24 was also agreed to
be settled to the insured value cost, but also hasnt been paid. Therefore, Baxendale will
need to settle items 16 and 24 as such.
Settlement two
Settlement two I understand included items 14, 15, 16 and 24 on the household goods list.
Item 14 was repairable, so Baxendale offered to cover the cost of repairs by paying the
repairer directly, as was item 15. Item 16 I understand Mr R was offered the full insured
value of, which totalled £1,000, but this hasnt yet been paid. And item 24 was also agreed to
be settled to the insured value cost, but also hasnt been paid. Therefore, Baxendale will
need to settle items 16 and 24 as such.
What I must consider, however, is Baxendales decision to offer to settle the claim outside
the policy terms for items 14 and 15. I find this was unfair. Mr R wasnt happy with this
approach, and as such, the claim settlement has been delayed which has left Mr R with
items damaged that havent yet been resolved. Therefore, whilst I dont think interest should
be included, I think Baxendale should compensate Mr R £300 compensation for the handling
of this claim.
Items 29 and 30 Mr R claims were lost
Mr R claims these items were lost during the move. He says the items were documented by
the moving company on an extra day they were required to pack his items, due to them
underestimating the volume of his items. Hence why the items have been categorised as
such.
Baxendale declined to cover these items as they say theres no evidence to show they were
lost in transit, and Mr R received all the packages he shipped.
I appreciate this will be a more contentious part of my decision, given the level of evidence
available to me. But having weighed this up, I place more weight on Mr Rs testimony that
these items were shipped but not received  Ive no reason to doubt this. I say this because I
can see a scenario where the moving company had a high volume of items and therefore
had to take an extra day to pack them. And its possible that  given the volume of items
shipped  these could have been lost in transit. Baxendale say Mr R didnt categorise these
items correctly, but its also fair to suggest these items may have been categorised by the
moving company, based on what Ive said above. Mr R has already replaced these items,
Ive seen evidence of this.
So, Ill also be directing Baxendale to cover the insured value of items 29 and 30, plus
interest.
Summary
Overall, Im currently minded to direct Baxendale to settle the remaining aspects of the claim
as set out above. I also think £300 compensation is fair, reasonable, and proportionate here
given the way things were handled. Namely, Baxendale offered to settle aspects of the claim
that fell outside the policy terms which I find caused further frustration and inconvenience toMr R.
I appreciate there will be aspects of my decision that will disappoint both Mr R and
Baxendale. My role, however, is to reach a resolution thats fair and reasonable for all
parties. And Im currently satisfied what Ive set out above reaches a fair resolution to this
longstanding dispute.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I currently intend on directing The 
Baxendale Insurance Company to do the following: 
Pay Mr R the full insured value of the office chair (minus any amount already paid), 
and include 8% simple interest from the date of loss to the date of settlement
Cover the repair costs for items 14 and 15 and pay this directly to Mr R 
Pay the remaining settlement for items that havent yet been covered as part of the 
claim (items 16 and 24) 
Pay Mr R the full insured values of items 29 and 30, and include 8% simple interest 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement, and 
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr R accepted my provisional decision, and Baxendale responded to say they had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in detail my provisional findings in July 2022 based on the information available to 
me at that time. As neither party responded with new information or further points for me to 
consider, my provisional decision remains. As such, Ill now be requiring Baxendale to put 
matters right as follows. 
Putting things right
The Baxendale Insurance Company must now do the following the settle this complaint: 
Pay Mr R the full insured value of the office chair (minus any amount already paid, 
and include 8% simple interest* from the date of loss to the date of settlement
Cover the repair costs for items 14 and 15 and pay this directly to Mr R 
Pay the remaining settlement for items that havent yet been covered as part of the 
claim (items 16 and 24) 
Pay Mr R the full insured values of items 29 and 30, and include 8% simple interest* 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement, and 
Pay Mr R £300 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, its my final decision that I uphold the complaint. I now require 
The Baxendale Insurance Company to settle the complaint in the way I set out under 
heading Putting things right. *If The Baxendale Insurance Company considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr R how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman