DRN-1902457
The complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) sold by 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading in 1995 as Cheltenham & Gloucester. The mortgage was a joint 
one issued in the names of Mrs and Mr P. Its not entirely clear, due to the age of the policy 
who was covered by the PPI policy, but it seems at least Mr P was.
For consistency Ill refer to Lloyds in my decision.
What happened
I see Lloyds has already offered to pay Mrs and Mr P some money in relation to part of the 
commission it received from selling the mortgage. 
However, one of our adjudicators said the complaint about the policy being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr P still think the cover was mis-sold in the first place and so 
the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. 
The first thing that stands out about this case is that the sale took place over 25 years ago. 
With that in mind, I need to consider the obvious possibility that Mrs and Mr P simply dont 
remember everything that happened during the sale process. Nevertheless, their main 
allegation seems to be that they were told that PPI with their mortgage was necessary and 
they had no choice but to accept it.
Whilst I certainly dont doubt Mrs and Mr P now genuinely feel the PPI was mis-sold to them, 
I note they had mortgage borrowing both before and after this 1995 sale where PPI doesnt 
appear to have been sold to them. I think theyd have therefore been able to understand that 
buying this type of cover wasnt compulsory with their 1995 mortgage.
Because of how long ago this was, I think the paperwork weve been sent by Lloyds will only 
represent some of what was actually used during the sale in question. For example, my 
experience of these types of sales, of which Ive seen many, is that a choice about PPI was 
offered to mortgage applicant(s) at some point and they would need to determine whether to 
tick a yes or no box for it to be added. Mrs and Mr P dont really have any other evidence to 
put forward to support what they are saying about them being made to take the policy. I 
accept such evidence might be hard to find after so long, but Ive seen nothing from their 
mortgage forms or the apparent circumstances of the sale which suggest they had to have it.
Accordingly, in cases where evidence is hard to find I need to make a judgement of what is 
more likely to have happened. And on the basis of what Ive said above, I think Lloyds is 
more likely to have properly obtained their consent.
Its not disputed that the PPI was recommended as part of an advised sale. This means 
Lloyds had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable. I think it was.
There is an implication from Mrs P that her husband wasnt eligible for the cover as he hadnt 
been working for 6 continuous months (as per the policy rules). But the original notes from 
the sale show this to be incorrect in that by the time the policy started, he would have been 
so employed for 6 months. So I think the adviser based the advice on that Mr P was eligible 
for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. He was employed and I agree he might have had some sickness protection already. 
However, this doesnt mean the cover wasnt of use; their mortgage was secured against 
their home and so the consequences of not being able to make the repayments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI would have paid the mortgage for 
up to 12 months and for longer if for disability reasons. This would have been in addition to 
the other means Mrs and Mr P already had in place.
I therefore dont think recommending the PPI was unreasonable in this case.
Lloyds also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. I obviously 
cant confirm what would have been said at the meeting(s) and its possible Lloyds could 
have done a better job in explaining things. But from what weve been told by Mrs and Mr P 
themselves, they were told quite a bit about what the policy was for and why they ought to 
consider buying it. So I think Mrs and Mr P had enough information on which to make an 
informed choice about what they wanted to do.
Im afraid all this means that I cant say the PPI policy was mis-sold. There just isnt enough 
evidence, although Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs and Mr P.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more to put matters right. Its my understanding Mrs and Mr 
P have already been offered the commission element Ive mentioned above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman