DRN-4389507
The complaint
Mr H has complained that a mortgage interest rate product hed discussed with National 
Westminster Bank Plc in March 2023 was no longer available when he wanted to renew his 
mortgage interest rate a few months later.
To settle the complaint, Mr H wants NatWest to offer him the rate he discussed with the bank 
in March 2023.
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr H being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.
The interest rate on Mr Hs mortgage was due to expire on 31 July 2023. Mr H contacted 
NatWest on 14 February 2023 and a telephone appointment was arranged for him to speak 
with a mortgage adviser (MA) on 4 March 2023. 
During the call Mr H wanted to discuss various options, such as letting out his property and 
converting the mortgage to a buy-to-let, which NatWest wasnt able to agree to. Mr H was 
told that hed need to speak to another lender about that, but if hed fixed his interest rate in 
the meantime, an early repayment charge would apply.
Then NatWest and Mr H discussed the current available rates, Mr H explaining that he was 
keeping a close eye on interest rates and thought they might come down in May 2023. Mr H 
did not at that time fix a new rate on the mortgage, even though he had been told that he 
could lock one in before his existing rate expired.
On 3 July 2023 Mr H contacted NatWest again because he wanted to put in place a fixed 
rate of 3.99% that hed discussed back in March 2023. However, that rate was no longer 
available. 
Mr H complained, saying hed been offered that rate in March 2023 and been assured it 
would be available at any time up until his existing rate expired on 31 July 2023. NatWest 
didnt uphold the complaint, and in its final response the bank set out the details of the call 
with the MA on 4 March 2023, referred to above.
Unhappy with the banks response, Mr H raised his complaint with our service. He was 
provided with a copy of the call recording. An investigator looked at what had happened but 
didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr H says that he asked about the 
time frame for booking the new rate and was told he could do it just a few days before his 
existing rate expired on 31 July 2023. Mr H says that this led him to believe that the rate hed 
discussed that date in March 2023 was the one that he could book.
Mr H says we then discussed about the rates coming down and the advisor did confirm that 
our rates actually came down a few times this year which lead me to a hope and wait for a 
few months before I renew the existing deal being offered (sic)
Mr H said that hes made several complaints in the past that have not been dealt with to his 
satisfaction, although he had been paid compensation. Mr H also said that he has been kept 
on hold for a long time on the phone and the bank has then hung up on him, which caused 
him a lot of stress, and build an anger inside me which I am looking to let it out through this 
complaint, and I am hoping you will help me in this. (sic)
Mr H also said that he believes NatWest was involved in him losing his job, because 
NatWest would then know that Mr H wouldnt be able to move to another mortgage lender, 
and would be bound to renew with NatWest where he wouldnt need to provide any proof of 
income to renew his mortgage deal. Mr H said I believe it is the strategy of this bank and is 
how they keep a hold of peoples large deposits which I would like you to investigate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes and systems, or how they operate generally; thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between 
businesses and their customers. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else, but in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service and the remit those rules give us.
We have no power to sanction, punish or fine businesses  thats the role of the FCA. Nor do 
we have the authority to determine whether or not a business has breached legislation, 
broken the law, or is in breach of contract, and we dont award damages  all of those 
matters fall within the remit of the courts.
With all of this in mind, I must explain to Mr H that I have no power to investigate NatWests 
commercial operations or the systems it has in place to operate its business. 
I note Mr Hs contention that he believes NatWest was instrumental in him losing his job in 
order to ensure that he wasnt able to remortgage to another lender  and that he thinks this 
is a deliberate commercial strategy on the part of NatWest. I think this is unlikely, indeed 
implausible. 
I say this because it would not be a viable business model for a mortgage lender to put its 
mortgage borrowers out of work and therefore without income to service their debts. But in 
any event, NatWests commercial operations are a matter for the regulator, not the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
I will also not be commenting on previous complaints Mr H has made to NatWest, for which 
he has acknowledged the bank paid compensation. And whilst I note what Mr H has said about the difficulty in getting through to the bank on the phone, Im not persuaded this is the 
fault of NatWest. 
I dont know which network Mr H is on, but all networks have what is called a fair usage 
policy. For example, o2s policy specifies that calls are disconnected after 60 minutes and 
Virgin Mobile will disconnect calls at 60 minutes, because customers are charged for calls 
after 60 minutes and need to re-dial (these are just two examples of many similar policies by 
UK network providers that I have found online). Given this, I am not persuaded that NatWest 
deliberately hung up on Mr H, although I do understand why Mr H may have thought so.
Turning now to the main issue in the complaint  the interest rate  I am afraid I have 
disappointing news for Mr H; Im not upholding the complaint. These are my reasons.
Ive listened to the call between Mr H and the MA in March 2023. Im satisfied that, although 
the rates available at that time were discussed, no application was made and the 3.99% rate 
was not locked in or booked. Mr H said during the call that he thought rates were going to 
fall, and so did not lock in a rate that day. Indeed, it would have been curious if Mr H had, in 
fact, done that given that he thought rates were going to fall, as it would have been to his 
disadvantage to have locked in a higher rate in March 2023. 
I heard nothing in the call to persuade me that Mr H was assured that if he came back to the 
bank in July 2023 the rates he discussed in March would still be available. Indeed, the MA 
confirmed that rates were subject to fluctuation and could go up or down. Given this, Im not 
persuaded NatWest is under any obligation to offer Mr H an interest rate for which he didnt 
apply and which is no longer available. 
I know this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. Ive taken note of what he has told us 
about his unemployment, which I do not doubt has caused Mr B some upset and concern. 
The Mortgage Charter as well as the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) requires the bank to do what it can to help borrowers in financial 
difficulty. 
If Mr H is struggling to pay his mortgage, he should speak to NatWest to see what help it can 
give him. Mr H might also want to speak to a debt advisory service such as Citizens Advice, 
StepChange or Shelter. We can provide Mr H with contact details for those agencies, if he 
would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman