DRN-1548773
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the maturity value that Phoenix Life Limited paid him for his unit-linked 
endowment policy. He says he was advised that deductions would not be made from the 
final maturity value, only from an earlier surrender value. To resolve his complaint, Mr S 
wants to be paid the policy value that Phoenix set out on his annual statement of 16 August 
2018, without deductions.
What happened
Mr S took out a Target Equity Investment Plan with Target Life Assurance Company Limited 
on 15 August 1977. The policy was a unit-linked endowment savings policy, with an initial 
monthly premium of £12 (which was reduced to £6 three months later) and the premium was 
payable up to 15 July 2018. Thereafter the policy had a maturity date of 15 August 2018. 
The policy was later taken over by Abbey Life, and finally by Phoenix, which takes 
responsibility for the previous businesses. 
In June 2018, Phoenix sent Mr S a Maturity Options letter, asking him to indicate what he 
wanted to do with the policy. It noted that if it didnt hear back from him, the policy would be 
made paid up in accordance with the terms. The letter provided Mr S with a current maturity 
value of £12,370.47, noting that this figure was net of Capital Gains Tax (CGT) and not 
guaranteed since it was subject to the movement of unit prices.   
Mr S contacted Phoenix and asked to be paid the maturity value by returning a claim form 
that Phoenix received on 7 August 2018. On 16 August 2018 it asked him for some further 
evidence of his identity, and confirmed receipt of this on 28 August 2018.    
Phoenix also sent Mr S his yearly statement for the policy on 16 August 2018. It said that the 
policys unit value was £13,092.18 as at 14 August 2018. It had been £12,375.14 on 14 
August 2017. The statement also said the current surrender value for the policy as at 14 
August 2018 was £12,060.32.
On 12 September 2018, Phoenix confirmed it had sent Mr S a final maturity value of 
£12,158.65 by bank transfer to his chosen account. 
In December 2018, Mr S wrote to Phoenix to query the discrepancy. He said the letter of 12 
September 2018 had given him no explanation as to why he had been paid £933.53 less 
than he expected. Since the policy matured and was not surrendered before the maturity 
date, he had expected to receive the unit value of £13,092.18 and not be subjected to further 
tax.    
Phoenix said the unit price for the policy can go up as well as down. It also explained that it 
dealt with the payment as a surrender, in accordance with the policy terms.  
Mr S remained unhappy and wrote to Phoenix again in January 2019. This time, he asked 
for a final statement of his investment and to be given a complete explanation as to the 
reason for the deduction. 
Phoenix treated this letter as a complaint. One of its complaint handlers initially called Mr S to explain that the deduction was a company liability on the part of Phoenix, which it was 
entitled to pass on to policyholders, as this was provided for within the policy terms. 
Phoenix also issued a written response to the complaint on 25 January 2019. It said it was 
required to pay CGT on the investment gains it makes on the fund linked to Mr Ss policy. It 
passes those costs on as a terminal deduction as required by the policy terms.
Phoenix also clarified that it wasnt confusing surrender and maturity values  it would have 
actually deducted more from Mr Ss policy if he had surrendered it earlier than the maturity 
date in August 2018.    
Finally, it said it had paid the correct claims value  this was the unit price on the next day 
following receipt of the evidence from Mr S on 28 August 2018. It said it would have used the 
selling price as at 15 August 2018 if Mr S had returned his evidence any sooner than the 
maturity date.
Mr S wrote to Phoenix again on 26 April 2019. He said his financial adviser was emphatic in 
explaining to him that his policy was a qualifying policy based on life assurance premium 
relief and therefore no further deductions should be made for tax under his policy proceeds. 
Mr S accepted that the tax position was not what influenced his decision to take out the 
policy, but he had been previously assured the policy would pay the current unit value in full, 
and that is what he expected to receive.   
Mr S referred the complaint to this service. He reiterated some of the points he had made to 
Phoenix. He said, in summary:
 
he had since sought financial advice and it was confirmed that deductions shouldnt 
be made from policies that include life cover; 
given the policy was set up to provide benefit when he retired, it was particularly 
upsetting to lose money from his investment at an age where he doesnt have the 
means to recoup that loss;
the policy wasnt surrendered but it matured  this meant Phoenix wasnt entitled to 
make the deductions it said applied to a surrender value;
if any CGT was due by Phoenix, this should have been accounted for within the 
management charges he has already paid to Abbey Life and Target Life;
he did not consider it necessary for Phoenix to write to him on 16 August 2018 for 
proof of his name and address when it already had these details  this caused a 
delay which left his maturity value subject to fluctuations in the policys unit price;
during the time the policy was held with Abbey Life, Mr S was told verbally by one of 
its staff that no deductions would be paid once the policy matured. 
 
The complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She did not think it should succeed. 
She said the policy terms clearly set out that Phoenix could make the deduction when paying 
the policy proceeds to Mr S. She didnt think any of the information that hed been supplied 
was misleading about that. She also didnt think Phoenix had acted unreasonably in 
requiring further proof of identity from Mr S before it made the payment.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. The matter has now 
been passed to me. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Phoenix does not usually supply a detailed breakdown of the unit price and selling cost, but 
in the course of Mr S having pursued a complaint it has now done so.  It says the selling 
price of the 2610.605 units was £5.005 per unit, giving a fund value of £13,066.08. A sum of 
£907.43 was deducted from this for CGT. 
Firstly, I dont believe Phoenix has acted unfairly in calculating the unit price and therefore 
the total fund value as at the day after Mr S supplied its required evidence to pay the 
maturity value. This was the date at which the benefits under the policy became payable. 
Unfortunately, this meant it had reduced by £26.10 (from the fund value of 14 August 2018) 
once Mr S had supplied the required information. 
Security measures required by Phoenix are in place to ensure the proceeds are correctly 
paid. I dont see anything wrong with that  Phoenix needed to be sure it had paid the fund 
value to the right person. Further, Mr S was made aware from his yearly statements that the 
fund value is not static. Each of the statements Ive seen confirms that unit prices vary daily. 
Mr S knew - or should likely have known - that the value of his fund could change.
Similarly, I dont believe Phoenix has treated Mr Ss maturity value as a surrender value. It 
has clarified that if Mr S had surrendered his policy before 14 August 2018 it would have 
deducted an additional surrender charge (notwithstanding Mr S disputes the CGT deduction 
which I will address below). This did not happen, because Mr S only took steps to receive his 
policy value as at maturity.
I appreciate that Mr S has since taken advice about the nature of his policy. It is correct that 
for policies which are qualifying for life assurance premium relief (because, broadly, they 
meet some defined requirements relating to the premiums, time held, and the surrender 
value as set out by HMRC) it means that a final pay out at maturity is free of any further tax 
for the policyholder.
But, Phoenix hasnt taxed Mr Ss policy proceeds. It has sold the required units in Mr Ss 
fund in order to pay his policys maturity value. With unit-linked policies such as these, 
Phoenix (and Abbey Life and Target Life before it) owns the investment in the units, not Mr 
S. This means that upon disposal, Phoenix incurred a CGT liability. It can deduct that from 
the amount it pays a policyholder upon maturity.  
I can see our investigator has sent Mr S a link to the relevant Capital Gains Manual issued 
by HMRC entitled Payments made under life insurance policies linked to unit trusts. This 
guidance is clear in explaining how only a net amount after accounting for CGT on disposal 
of the units is available for a policyholder in Mr Ss circumstances.
I have also reviewed the terms that apply to Mr Ss policy, as issued by Target Life. I agree 
with our investigator that these clearly explain what will happen upon maturity.  
On the policy schedule, The Sum Assured is defined as the guaranteed sum assured, or:
the amount equal to the value (at the Managers Repurchase Price on the Date of 
Discharge) of the number of units which shall be deemed to have been credited to 
this Policy on or before the date of the event on which the Benefits become payable 
reduced by a sum calculated in accordance with Condition 11 Condition 11 says:
 
any amount payable under this policy whether it be on death, maturity, or surrender 
shall be reduced by an amount to be determined by the Company in respect of the 
sum for which the Company is or may be liable for tax on chargeable gains in respect 
of Units deemed to have been credited to this Policy. 
I realise Mr S says he was told he would not incur a tax liability at maturity, but as Ive said 
above, he hasnt incurred one. So I understand it may be the case that he was told as much 
by a Phoenix adviser. Nonetheless, the policy terms allow for the deduction of a CGT liability 
incurred by the company as a charge whenever proceeds are due from the policy, 
irrespective of the cause. This is clear from the extract above. 
I realise Mr S feels Phoenix has been misleading because his yearly statements explained 
how tax on capital gains paid by Phoenix would be deducted on surrender. But that doesnt 
alter the clear terms applying to the policy, or the position of HMRC. 
Taking everything into account, I think the information is clear that a reduction would apply 
at maturity to account for the providers capital gain tax liability and so I dont think Phoenix 
needs to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
Though I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr S, I do not find Phoenix to have acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in respect of paying the proceeds of his unit-linked endowment 
policy. I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman