DRN-3326267
The complaint
Mr G complained that his claim was unfairly settled under his motor policy with U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) and he thought his claim was poorly handled.
What happened
Mr G made a claim on his policy when his windscreen was damaged on his limited-edition 
vehicle. UKI appointed a windscreen repairer who decided the windscreen would need to be 
replaced as it couldnt be repaired.
Mr G wanted a windscreen provided by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) as he 
wanted to maintain his car in its original condition and not risk any reduction in its value. Mr 
G was unhappy with UKIs unwillingness to settle the claim by fitting an OEM windscreen. Mr 
G was also unhappy UKI wouldnt share details about the suppliers costs to fit a standard 
windscreen when he asked for them.
UKI said under its policy its allowed to organise replacement of [Mr Gs] vehicles glass by 
using parts that havent been made by [Mr Gs] cars manufacturer. UKI said it could offer 
an OEM windscreen, but Mr G would have to pay the additional cost over and above what it 
would cost itself to provide standard glass through its approved contractor.
Mr G negotiated a price to have an OEM windscreen fitted. He wants the costs over and 
above his excess to be refunded.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought UKI had fairly settled the 
claim, as she thought UKI had settled the claim reasonably in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. She thought the £100 compensation offered by UKI was fair for 
some shortcomings on the handling of the claim. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been 
referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI said it has met the terms and conditions of the policy in settling the claim, but Mr G 
doesnt think this is the case. He thinks the policy documents are misleading. Therefore, Ive 
started by reviewing what the policy documents state.
UKI have highlighted on page 15 of the policy exclusions that apply to sections B, C and D of 
the policy (section D being the windscreen section). The exclusion states we may decide to 
repair your car with parts which have not been made by your cars manufacturer but
which are of a similar standard, including recycled parts. 
Mr G said the exclusion does not specifically relate to windscreens, but it covers all 
replacement parts. Unfortunately, I dont agree. The policy exclusion is clear in that it 
references the sections it applies to, which includes the windscreen section of the policy. Mr 
G has suggested the words may decide means that UKI should only use a non-OEM part 
in extreme cases. However, I dont think this is the case. The word may in this context 
means UKI has the choice on how it wishes to settle the claim. This is the normal meaning of 
the word and this is a common way of expressing this meaning in an insurance policy.
I understand why Mr G thinks this is misleading, as he said UKIs approved contractor 
preferred approach is to use non-OEM parts. I agree the policy could clarify the point that its 
likely a non-OEM part maybe used. However, I dont think it means UKI hasnt fulfilled its 
obligations under the policy. As UKI has done what is set out in the policy and chosen to 
offer a non-OEM windscreen, I dont think its actions are unfair.
Mr G has argued that the non-OEM windscreen provided is of inferior quality to that of an 
OEM windscreen. I have checked this, as the terms of the policy does state the windscreen 
needs to be of similar standard. UKI have provided evidence from their approved contractor. 
I cant share this as its commercially sensitive information, but rest assured I have checked 
the details. The information that has been shared shows the non-OEM windscreen is of 
equivalent standard to an OEM windscreen. The evidence has been specifically provided for 
Mr Gs vehicle. Therefore, as the evidence supports that UKI have provided a similar 
standard of windscreen, I think UKI has followed a reasonable approach. It has met the 
terms of the policy. Therefore, I dont uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr G raised issues with the poor handling of the complaint. UKI has paid some 
compensation in respect of the issues raised so I have considered whether I think this is fair. 
The £100 compensation is in recognition to UKI not responding to emails sent to Mr G in 
November 2021 asking for UKI to declare the exact amount that UKIs contractor would 
normally charge to fit a standard windscreen.  
I dont think its reasonable to expect UKI or its contractors to share information about its 
cost base, this is commercially sensitive information. Therefore, I dont think UKI has done 
anything wrong by not sharing this information. However, I do think there was a failure to 
acknowledge and respond to the emails in November even if it couldnt provide the response 
Mr G wanted. However, I think the £100 compensation is fair for this failure and Mr G was 
provided with the necessary information to understand what he needed to pay if he wished 
to upgrade to an OEM windscreen.
I can see time was drawn out in resolving this situation, but I think this is predominately due 
to Mr Gs dissatisfaction and supplementary questioning about the obligations of the policy. 
As I think UKI met its obligation and the delay was due to Mr G not accepting UKIs fair 
decision, I cant reasonably say that it has caused delay with the claim. Therefore, I dont 
uphold this aspect of the complaint that it was mishandled.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require U K Insurance Limited to do 
anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman