DRN-3586465
The complaint
Mr T has complained about a second charge loan he holds with Blemain Finance Limited 
(trading as Together). He feels the loan should have been paid off by now as hes been 
paying more than his contractual monthly payment since 2011, and the lender confirmed his 
arrears had been paid off in September 2014.
What happened
I issued a decision about our jurisdiction in June 2022. In that I said we couldnt consider 
anything that had been covered in the final response letters that were issued before 
7 October 2020 because Mr T hadnt referred those complaints to us in time.
As our investigator had already issued her assessment about what happened in the period 
we can consider, which Mr T didnt accept, I now issue this decision as the final stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision, I can only consider the period since May 2019 as 
Mr Ts complaints that he made before then about his loan balance werent referred to us in 
time. I also can only consider up until April 2021 as that was when Mr T referred this 
complaint to us. Anything that may have happened since then cant be included as part of 
this complaint.
Having looked at the period in question I can see that Together didnt charge Mr T any fees 
and when I look at the interest charged and the payments made, it seems the balance is 
reducing in line with those. 
The figures on the loan agreement are based on a person paying all of the contractual 
monthly repayments in full and on time and no fees or charges being added. Clearly that 
didnt happen here as Mr T was in arrears for a while, and a suspended possession order 
was granted. 
As interest is constantly being charged this means its not as simple as making up the 
missed payment, theres also the extra interest incurred for every day that payment is 
overdue. This interest roll-up can add up significantly as Mr T has found; for each delayed 
payment extra interest will be charged on the unpaid capital for every day it is late. Then 
there are the charges for the missed payments and legal costs added onto the debt. 
For the reasons I explained in my jurisdiction decision, I cant consider the period that all this 
took place, all I can look at is the period between May 2019 and April 2021, and having 
considered everything I cant see that Together has done anything wrong in that two year 
period.
I understand Mr T was confused by the letter he received in May 2021, saying they confirm 
that arrears as been paid in 2014. Whilst it isnt in the period I can consider, I would point 
Mr T to the sentences straight after that which say:
You then spoke to a colleague on 14 October 2014 who confirmed that the amount you 
needed to pay each month to repay your loan within the contractual term was £100.35. 
This was due to the off schedule balance on your account.
The off schedule balance that is being referred to is the combination of the additional 
interest, costs and charges incurred due to the previous arrears on the account. Whilst the 
arrears in the contractual instalments had been cleared in September 2014, all the additional 
costs that came about due to those arrears hadnt been.
We dont provide an auditing service or carry out a forensic analysis of loan records. But Ive 
looked at the transaction history and theres nothing on there that appears unusual or 
incorrect for the period Im able to consider. Of course, its open to Mr T to instruct an 
independent qualified professional to audit his account. But that would have to be at his 
expense.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means well not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman