DRN-1406375
 
Complaint
Ms M says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD 
 as the insurer  has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy that started in 2004.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ms case. 
Having done that, Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Ms M, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I dont think AXA gave Ms M clear enough information about the policys cost and benefit. 
For instance, I cant see where it clearly explained that the cost would be added onto the 
cards balance each month and attract compounding interest, or how the benefit would be 
worked out.
I think this would have mattered to Ms M. This policy was particularly expensive compared to 
similar policies. And Ms M had enough sick pay and savings to have met her store card 
repayments for a while without the PPI. So I think Ms M probably wouldnt have wanted the 
policy if shed properly understood the cost and benefit. 
AXA has asked for stronger evidence about Ms Ms work situation, and I understand why it 
would like this. But this sale was 16 years ago, so I have to be reasonable about what I can 
expect both sides to provide. I think Ms M has given us her best recollections  what shes 
said seems plausible and reasonable, and Ive not seen any good reason to doubt what 
shes told us. Given her role, industry, and estimated length of service, I think it is most likely 
that her sick pay, together with her savings, was enough that she wouldnt have thought this 
policy was good value for money if shed been given clear enough information about it.
In other words, I dont think Ms M wouldve bought the policy if she had been given enough 
information about it. So I think Ms M has most likely lost out because the flaws in this sale.Putting things right
AXA should put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt had the PPI.
A.) AXA should find out how much Ms M would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have 
owed when she closed her account, from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Ms M would have owed each month without PPI  
she paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Ms M wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again 
be 8% simple a year.
D.) AXA should tell Ms M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint.
AXA France IARD should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I'm required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject by decision before 17 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman