DRN-3376824
The complaint
Mr J complains that Starling Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund payments he made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr J was contacted via a community website by an individual Ill refer to as A. 
A was looking to exchange Korean Won for Great British Pounds. Mr J says that hed used 
the same website for that purpose previously with no problems. A told him that she lived far 
away so they couldnt do the exchange face to face but if they did it online, she would send 
him her photo, passport and ID cards to prove she was real. 
They agreed to the swap and Mr J was to send her £6,000 in exchange for the Korean Won.
Mr J sent the first payment of £3,000 on 3 April 2020. He says A sent him a screen shot 
showing the Korean Won payment shed made to him was pending with her bank. She told 
Mr J she desperately needed the rest of the money but told him her bank had a limit so the 
funds hadnt gone through. So, Mr J sent the second payment of £3,000 on 7 April 2020.
Between 8 April and 5 June Mr J pursued A and tried to get his money back. Initially he 
wanted the foreign currency they agreed to in the swap, but eventually just asked A to send 
back the £6,000 hed transferred to her. Mr J says he did receive around £190 worth of 
foreign currency from A during that time. 
After numerous promises of payment and excuses as to why the payments werent going 
through, Mr J contact Starling and asked them to recover his funds. Starling told Mr J they 
were unable to assist him and that he should pursue the funds through the courts and Action 
Fraud. 
As a result, Mr J raised a county court case against A. In the defendants statement, A 
admitted she owed Mr J the money and agreed to pay him £6,499.42 no later than 19 June 
2020. This included the £6,000 payment as well as court costs and interest.
When A didnt pay on the due date Mr J engaged bailiffs to enforce the court order. The 
bailiffs attended the registered address A had given the court but found she didnt live there. 
They called A but she refused to provide any forwarding information. A third party told the 
bailiffs that A was living in a shelter. In May 2021 Mr J received a letter telling him that there 
was no further action that could be taken on the case as they couldnt locate A.
Mr J got back in touch with Starling and raised a complaint. Starling investigated but 
declined to refund Mr J saying theyd contacted the beneficiary bank who declined to return 
the funds, saying it was a civil matter.
Mr J wasnt happy with the response from Starling, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and ultimately upheld it. They were persuaded A 
had set out with the intention to scam Mr J, therefore his claim was covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code). The investigator felt Starling hadnt met 
their obligations under the code, as they didnt provide an effective warning when Mr J made 
the payments. However, they felt Mr J should share responsibility under the CRM Code for 
the second payment as he didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was 
genuine, as he hadnt received any of the funds for the first payment. On that basis, the 
investigator recommended that Starling refund 100% of the first payment and 50% of the 
second payment. They also awarded interest on the refund at the rate of 8% simple.
Starling responded and disagreed in part with the investigators opinion. They agreed to 
refund 100% of the first payment and pay interest on that refund. But they felt the warning 
theyd given Mr J was effective. Also, they raised an argument that if we didnt think Mr J had 
a reasonable basis of belief for making the second payment, they didnt understand why we 
were recommending they refund 50% of that payment. As well, they raised concerns about 
Mr J potentially receiving double benefit, saying he could get paid under the county court 
judgement as well.
As Starling disagreed the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Starling are a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Starling says one of those 
exceptions apply in this case.
Starling have already agreed with the investigators opinion that Mr J was the victim of a 
scam, rather than his interaction with A being considered a civil dispute. For completeness, 
Im also satisfied that Mr J was the victim of a scam. From what Ive seen Im persuaded that 
A set out with the intention of scamming Mr J, taking into account that she sent him a faked 
screen shot showing her making a payment to him in order to convince him to send her the 
second payment. Shes also avoided all attempts to try and repay the money and provided 
false information to the court. And, I think its most likely that the small amount of money she 
did send to Mr J was just to prevent him taking action to recover the funds.
As its been agreed by all parties that Mr J was the victim of a scam, Ive moved on to 
consider whether hes entitled a refund under the CRM Code.
Did Starling provide an effective warning?
The CRM Code sets out when a bank should reimburse a scam victim and it provides 
increased protection for customers who are the victim of scams. But the CRM Code doesnt 
mean a bank must reimburse every scam victim. Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose 
not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*: 
 The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning
 
 The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate
* there are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code, but they dont apply to this case.
Starling say Mr J ignored an effective warning. They say the warning Mr J was presented 
with says: Could this be part of a scam? If in doubt, just stop here and visit our website to 
learn more about fraud.
They say their website then provided a further warning, saying: A fraudster may request that 
you send money in order to release a larger sum. For example, this could be for a distant 
relatives inheritance, a loan or a lottery win. Always be wary if someone contacts you out of 
the blue as this could be a scam. Alternatively, another form of advance fee fraud could be 
someone who requests you make a payment for goods or services in advance, for example 
paying a property rental deposit or a deposit on a car. Where possible, try to view the item in 
person and/or meet the person providing the service prior to sending any funds by Faster 
Payment or do some research online about the person you are paying.
However, Im not persuaded that these meet the requirements of an effective warning as set 
out by the Code. 
The initial warning that Mr J wouldve seen requires him to leave the payment process and 
go to Starlings website in order to see the second warning and its unclear if this happened. 
But regardless, having reviewed the second warning from their website, Im not satisfied that 
it is specific or impactful in Mr Js circumstances. I say this because it refers to situations 
where youre being asked to pay money to help release a larger sum or being asked to pay 
an advance fee  neither of which apply to the scam Mr J was the victim of. Also, Im not 
persuaded it provided Mr J with any relevant information about how he could protect himself 
from the scam he was involved in. Foreign currency exchange isnt necessarily a situation 
where you can meet the other party in person, and in this case, she told Mr J she lived too 
far away. And Mr J did take steps that he thought were reasonable to confirm her identify by 
asking her to send pictures of her ID and at the time didnt consider that he mayve been the 
victim of a scam. So, Im not satisfied that these warnings individually or considered in 
totality were specific or impactful in Mr Js situation and therefore dont constitute effective 
warnings in this case.
On that basis, Starling hasnt met their obligations under the CRM Code. However, I also 
need to consider whether Mr J met his.
Did Mr J have a reasonable basis for believing the transaction was legitimate?
From what Mr J has told us Im satisfied that he did have a reasonable basis for believing the 
first transaction with B was genuine, for the following reasons:
Hed used the same community website for foreign exchange previously with no 
problems.
He asked for and received proof of identity from A, to ensure she was who she said 
she was.
A told Mr J she couldnt meet with him because of the distance between their 
locations and the Covid situation at that time, which explains why they couldnt 
exchange the currency face to face.
The amount of foreign currency he was being offered for the GBP wasnt unrealistic 
or too good to be true taking into account the exchange rate.Im not satisfied there were any warning signs that presented themselves to Mr J, whereby 
he shouldve had doubts that the transaction he was entering into wasnt legitimate.
Therefore, I think its fair for Starling to refund 100% of the first payment.
However, I think that Mr Js basis for belief isnt present when he makes the second 
payment. I say this because Mr J made the second payment without having received the 
foreign currency exchange for the first payment. Also, there is a three day gap between the 
two payments, so plenty of time for Mr J to wait for the funds to be received. I appreciate that 
A mayve sent him a screen shot of a pending payment, but Im not satisfied that justifies   
Mr J sending the second payment. I think its reasonable to expect Mr J to have waited for 
payment in return before proceeding.
On that basis, I think its fair for him to share the responsibility with Starling for the second 
payment and recommend that Starling only refund 50% of that payment, in addition to 100% 
of the first payment. Starling should also pay interest on both refunds at 8% simple interest, 
from the date of the payments, until the date of settlement.
The court case and its impact on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances
Starling feel that we cant fairly make an award with regard to these payments, due to Mr J 
having a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against A. They say Mr J could potentially get 
double benefit if they refund him and then he receives payment from A as well. 
Mr Js court case was against A and as such only considered As liability and not Starlings. 
As I think there is no likelihood of Mr J receiving any funds from A, Im satisfied that I can 
consider Starlings liability under the CRM Code as to whether it can fairly be held liable to 
refund any of the money Mr J lost as a victim of a scam. And, as set out above, Im not 
satisfied Starling has met its obligations under the CRM Code and therefore should refund 
Mr J in part.
However, I dont think it would be unreasonable if Starling asked Mr J to sign an indemnity, 
agreeing that any funds received from A in future are returned to Starling to offset the 
amount theyre refunding. 
Putting things right
To put things right Starling Bank Limited should:
Refund in full the first payment Mr J made of £3,000.
Refund 50% of the second payment Mr J made of £3,000.
Pay interest on the refund at 8% simple, from the date they declined his claim under 
the CRM Code until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Starling Bank Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman