DRN-2370121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited 
unfairly increased the premiums payable on their reviewable whole of life policy. 
What happened
In 1987 Mr and Mrs G took out a reviewable whole of life policy with a predecessor of 
Sun Life. The policy provided £16,000 of life cover for a monthly premium of £16.20, which 
was fixed until each review. The premium paid into a fund, which was used to pay for the 
cover.  Sun Life regularly reviewed the policy to check if the premium was enough to 
maintain the policy cover. Reviews carried out in 2005, 2010 and 2015 indicated that the 
premium was sufficient, and so no further action was required. 
Sun Life reviewed the policy in January 2020 and wrote to Mr and Mrs G to advise that the 
premium could no longer sustain the cover. Mr and Mrs G were offered four options to 
manage their policy going forward. They could:
1. increase their monthly premium to £39.14 to sustain the full sum assured; 
2. maintain their current premium but reduce their sum assured to £11,200; 
3. maintain their premium and sum assured, which would result in the policy value 
being used to pay the policy charges, meaning cover would likely end in three years; 
or
4. increase their premium to £108.96 which was anticipated to maintain the policy for 
the rest of their lives.  
Mr and Mrs G received the letter to explain their options after the initial deadline to respond 
had already passed. Unhappy with the options, Mr and Mrs G complained to Sun Life. They 
said they were unaware the policy was reviewable and were unhappy their premium was set 
to double if they wanted to maintain their cover. They thought the price should have been 
calculated at the start and spread across the whole policy term. They thought it was unfair 
this increase had taken place when they were retired, and not earlier when they could have 
better afforded the increase.
 
Sun Life was satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Gs needs at the time it was 
sold. It said the reviewable nature of the policy had been set out within the policy terms and 
conditions. It also noted that Mr and Mrs G had been sent review letters every five years. 
These updated Mr and Mrs G on the performance of the policy and provided an estimate of 
how long their current premium was expected to maintain their selected level of cover for. In 
terms of the level of increase, it explained that the cost of cover was dependent on a number 
of factors  including Mr and Mrs Gs age and how the fund performed. In response to Mr 
and Mrs Gs concerns about the timing of the increases, it explained it wouldnt have been 
fair to increase the premium earlier than was needed, and the premium only stopped being 
enough to maintain cover in 2020. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and referred the complaint to our service. As well as the points 
already raised, they complained that Sun Life carried on with the policy review without 
awaiting the outcome of their complaint. They were also concerned that Sun Life had 
mistakenly referred to their daughter when corresponding about the complaint, even 
though they dont have a daughter. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He couldnt explain why 
Sun Life had referred to a daughter in their correspondence. But he was satisfied that while 
Sun Life had made an administrative error it didnt impact its overall review of the complaint. 
He was satisfied that the documentation clearly set out the reviewable nature of the policy, 
as well as the fact that cover would become more expensive over time. He noted Mr and 
Mrs Gs concerns about the timing of the increase, but agreed with Sun Life that it was only 
appropriate to increase the premium when it became necessary to do so. He also thought 
Sun Life had acted reasonably by completing the review while the complaint was 
outstanding. Overall, he was persuaded that Sun Life had acted reasonably. 
Mr and Mrs G disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for much the same reason as our 
investigator. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G so Id like to explain 
how Ive reached my decision. 
The policy terms and conditions clearly set out that the policy will be reviewed at least every 
five years. They state:
The Company will carry out a Policy Review within 30 days before or after the 5th 
anniversary of the Date of Commencement and at intervals thereafter as the Company may 
determine but not less frequently than once every five years. Following each Policy Review 
the Company may stipulate to the insured that he should increase the amount of the Regular 
Premium payable (see Condition 4 of Section B) to whatever level the Company considers to 
be necessary in order to sustain the Protection Benefits in force until the next Policy
Review Condition 4 of this Section will apply to that stipulation.
Sun Life has stated these reviews took place at five-year intervals and has provided me with 
evidence of the last four reviews (including January 2020). In each of the review letters it 
explains why the policy is reviewed, and how the review is carried out. While the reviews in 
January 2005, 2010 and 2015 all confirmed that no premium increase was needed in those 
years, they did set out an estimate of how long the policy cover would last, based on the 
current premium. These projections broadly predicted that the premium would need to be 
increased in or around 2020. 
In view of this, Im persuaded that Sun Life provided Mr and Mrs G with enough information 
to inform them that not only was the policy was reviewable, but also that the premium would 
likely need to be increased in the future. 
 
I understand that Mr and Mrs G werent expecting the steep increase in premium they were 
presented with, and that this would have come as a shock to them. But I cant say Sun Life 
was unreasonable in suggesting they increase their premium to maintain their policy cover. 
Sun Life explained that the cost of life cover has been increasing for many years - which is 
very typical for policies like this as the cost of providing life cover increases with the age of 
those covered. It explained that by the time of the review, the cost of providing cover had 
increased to £56.22, which was significantly higher than the monthly premium of £16.20. Its not my role to decide what the cost of cover should be. Thats ultimately a commercial 
decision. But I consider that Sun Life acted reasonably in advising Mr and Mrs G when their 
premiums could no longer sustain their chosen level of cover, and providing them with 
options on how to manage the policy going forward. 
Its unfortunate that Mr and Mrs G didnt receive notice of the policy review earlier than they 
did. But from the evidence Ive seen I cant hold Sun Life responsible for this. It has provided 
me with a copy of letter correctly addressed to Mr and Mrs G dated 7 January 2020, which 
asked for a response by 28 January 2020. Its unclear why this wasnt received on time, but 
on the available evidence I cant reasonably say Sun Life was responsible for this. 
The plan review explained that if Sun Life didnt hear from Mr and Mrs G it would 
automatically use the value of the policy to pay the policy charges (i.e. option 3). While its 
clear that Mr and Mrs G were unhappy about the review, they didnt make it clear to Sun Life 
that they expected the review process to be paused while the complaint was considered. 
And in any event, Sun Lifes complaint acknowledgment letter, dated 19 February 2020, 
stated You might get letters about the review while we are investigating your complaint. If 
you do, it is important that you reply to them. So I dont think Sun Life was unreasonable for 
continuing with the review. But even if Sun Life had paused the review process, the outcome 
would have been the same. Mr and Mrs G would have continued to pay the original 
premium, which wouldnt have been sufficient to cover the cost of the policy, and so the 
balance would have been taken from the fund balance and the cover wouldve ended earlier 
than planned. 
If Mr and Mrs G are concerned about the premium they are paying or the amount of cover 
they have following the latest review, I suggest that they contact Sun Life to discuss their 
options. Sun Life has confirmed to me that they do have the option to increase their 
premiums or reduce their cover at any time. 
Overall, while I can understand Mr and Mrs Gs disappointment that the cost of their cover 
was set to increase significantly, I cant say Sun Life has acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman