DRN-4036330
The complaint
Mr S complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limiteds (Admiral) valuation of his car 
following a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in a road traffic accident and, following a claim made to Admiral, his car 
was declared a total loss. Admiral valued Mr Ss car at £35,920 and, after deducting the 
excess, they paid Mr S a settlement of £35,320. Mr S complained as he felt the valuation 
wasnt fair, particularly as hed bought his car for £42,000 a few months earlier. Admiral 
responded and maintained their valuation was fair and didnt uphold the complaint.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. She thought Admiral hadnt offered a fair 
valuation and recommended they increase the settlement to £37,247 and pay 8% simple 
interest on the additional settlement amount. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr S will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
 
My starting point is Mr Ss car insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says, if Admiral decide to pay a cash sum to replace a car, the most theyll 
pay is the market value of the car. The policy defines market value as The cost of replacing 
your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage and condition based on 
market prices immediately before the loss happenedThis value is based on research from 
industry recognised motor trade guides. The dispute here relates to the valuation, so the 
next point Ive considered is whether Admiral acted fairly when carrying out their valuation.  
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research of 
likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the 
likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the 
specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the mileage.  
Mr S is unhappy with Admirals valuation of his car as he thinks its worth more  particularly 
as he says he paid £42,000 for his car only a few months earlier. Ive seen that Admiral 
reached their figure by using two industry recognised tools to find out the market value of the 
car. I can see they used Glasss to arrive at a valuation of £35,920 and CAP which gave a 
valuation of £35,400. Admiral used the higher of the two valuations to settle the claim. 
I can see our investigator took into account two additional motor guides to get their valuation 
for Mr Ss car at the time of the incident. I can see these similarly took into account the 
make, model, age, mileage and specification. Using Cazoo the market value given was 
£38,516 and AutoTrader was £39,152. Taking these figures into account, the average 
across all four motor guides is £37,247.
Given that the difference between this valuation and what Mr S received is £1,327, I dont 
believe, in the circumstances of this case, Mr S received a fair settlement. I say this because 
Admiral only used two motor-trade guides  and although they then used the higher 
valuation out of the two to settle Mr Ss claim, this still produced a lower valuation when 
compared with the two guides which werent used. Its not the role of this service to put an 
exact value on a car. When looking into these types of complaints we check the relevant 
trade guides and consider whether the insurer has made a reasonable offer in line with 
them. Its our role to make sure Admiral is giving Mr S a fair price using a fair and recognised 
approach. 
In this case, I cant say that has happened here as Admirals valuation relied on only two 
guides  and those two produced the lowest valuations when comparing all four of the 
industry recognised motor trade guides. Admiral havent provided any information to explain 
why the other two trade guides werent used so I dont think theyve followed a fair approach 
here. And given this has then led to what I believe is a fairly significant reduction in the 
amount paid to Mr S, I dont think Mr S has received a fair price. Based on the information 
provided about Mr Ss car and using the trade guides, I dont think Admiral have carried out 
a fair valuation. After making deductions from the settlement amount, Admiral have already 
paid £35,320, so they should pay Mr S £1,327 together with 8% simple interest from 9 July 
2022 to the date of settlement. 
I understand Mr S says he provided Admiral with comparable cars being offered for sale on 
a car trading platform  which he says were in the range of £43,000 to £50,000. I do 
acknowledge Mr Ss point, but we usually place less weight on advertisements as they 
contain asking prices that are often negotiated downwards. In addition to this, the terms and 
conditions set out how Admiral will carry out a valuation  and this doesnt refer to them 
basing the valuation purely on advertised prices. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but advertised 
prices arent enough to persuade me the trade guides are unreliable for a car like Mr Ss.
I note Mr S says his car is a type which has a low base specification and optional extras 
added significant value to his car. Optional extras are additional specifications which can be 
added to a car when it is in the factory. These usually come with an additional cost which is 
paid by the purchaser. While some optional extras can increase the resale value of a car, 
some wont increase the price but may make the car more desirable to buy. As with cars 
generally, optional extras will depreciate over time. I can see Mr S has provided a list of 
optional extras and weve matched these to a motor trade guide showing the value of those 
optional extras at the date of loss. The optional extras show a depreciated value of 0. I am 
sorry to disappoint Mr S as its clear the range of optional extras gave the car a higher 
specification  but I cant say its unreasonable to apply the same industry recognised tools 
to assess this. I acknowledge Mr Ss point here about the approach that a main dealer would 
take to cars with optional extras and the higher price that a higher specification car will 
attract. But, as mentioned above, we look at trade guides to assess a fair price for a car  
and thats what weve done here.    
Mr S refers to a separate incident which led to him making a claim against his insurer at the 
time. He says their approach was completely different. He says they discussed advertised 
prices and main dealer listings with Mr S and arrived at a valuation together. Mr S says the 
insurer in that claim was keen to ensure that he received an appropriate settlement which 
would allow him to actually replace his car. I do acknowledge Mr Ss points and I note his 
concern here arises out of him not being able to find a similar car for the settlement he has been offered. I think its important to note, different insurers might take different approaches 
to settling car claims, but I can only look at the facts of each case individually. And in this 
case, I dont think its unreasonable if Admiral havent taken a similar approach to that taken 
by Mr Ss previous insurer. That said, I do think Admirals approach wasnt fair  but to 
correct this Im directing Admiral to pay Mr S £37,247  which represents a fair price. 
I understand Mr S will be disappointed, and I acknowledge his concerns about how his car 
has been valued. I hope Mr S feels reassured that I agree Admiral havent followed a fair 
approach when valuing his car  but I dont agree they should meet the value Mr S wants. I 
wish to reassure Mr S Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Admiral havent carried out a fair valuation of Mr Ss car. So, Admiral 
should pay Mr S £1,327 together with 8% simple interest from 9 July 2022 to the date of 
settlement. Admiral should provide Mr S with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must 
take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman