DRN-1400006
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C was sold the PPI at the same time as arranging his mortgage during a branch meeting 
in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he didnt want PPI and thought that he had been sold a critical illness policy. Ive 
seen some of the paperwork from the time of the sale. The Insurance Fact Find has a 
heading called Protecting You and Your Mortgage. There is a statement saying: It is 
important to you to ensure all of your mortgage payments can be met in the event of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. A tick has been placed in the IMPORTANT box next 
to this statement.
Beneath this there is a section in which Mr C also said he wished to consider having a 
critical illness policy. Then there is a handwritten note saying that an appointment has been 
made with another adviser. So Im satisfied that Mr C did have an interest in getting a critical 
illness policy. But from the wording and layout of the document, I consider he would have 
known that the PPI policy covering accident, sickness and unemployment was separate and 
distinct from a critical illness policy. It also seems clear that the PPI was something that 
Lloyds was setting up then and there but that his need for critical illness cover be discussed 
at a later date.
The Mortgage Offer has a heading called Optional Insurance and underneath this it details 
the PPI that will provide cover for accident, sickness or redundancy and that he is not 
obliged to take it. Mr B has signed this form on 28 April 2005.
Mr C says he first turned down the mortgage offer because it had standard PPI on it. He 
says he discussed the type of insurance that he did want and he then signed the form on the 
understanding that someone would call him further about the insurance.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Cs recollection of events 
has faded. What hes saying about signing the mortgage offer and then waiting for a call 
about insurance is broadly consistent with agreeing to the PPI at the time and then waiting to be contacted to discuss a possible critical illness policy. Mr C says he did get a call and was 
told that everything was in place. If Mr C did ask for a critical illness policy to be set up, and it 
wasnt, then that is a different issue to what I am looking at here.
Mr C says that the premiums went up from £17 to £25 and so he therefore thought that the 
policy had been amended to the critical illness policy that he wanted. But as our adjudicator 
has pointed out, it is likely that this is because Mr C added on secondary borrowing of 
£15,000 to the main loan of £35,000 and so the premiums changed to reflect that.
This decision is only about whether the PPI was mis-sold. Overall, based on the available 
evidence, I am not persuaded that it was. It seems to me that Mr C probably knew what the 
PPI was and decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer 
remembers doing so. 
Mr C says that he wanted a critical illness policy instead of a PPI policy. But from the 
evidence Ive seen, he showed interest in having  a critical illness policy in addition to having 
a PPI policy.
Lloyds advised Mr C to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending it to him, it needed to 
ensure that it met his needs. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time, the 
policy was suitable for him.
Mr C wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job. Mr C has told us that he had some 
savings. But having the policy would have allowed him to retain these or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. So I think that Mr C had a need for 
the policy and could have benefitted from it  and in fact Mr C did make a successful claim 
on the policy in 2009.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that he has an interest in the cover and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. It follows that I do 
not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman