DRN-4353542
The complaint
Mrs D has complained Metro Bank PLC added a marker against her name to the industry 
fraud database, CIFAS, and closed his account.
What happened
In 2023 Mrs D contacted Metro to query why theyd added a fraud-related marker about her 
to the industry database, CIFAS. This was following a payment shed received into her 
account. This was for £605. Following that credit, £250 was taken out at a cash machine 
using the debit card for Mrs Ds Metro account. Mrs D had said this wasnt her.
Shed been aware Metro had closed her account but hadnt known about the CIFAS marker.
As Metro knew the money into Mrs Ds account had been recalled as the payment was the 
result of a scam, they felt the evidence theyd seen indicated Mrs D was aware of what had 
happened and been involved.
Mrs D brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She also confirmed that the cash 
withdrawal had been made in London which she didnt go to.
Our investigator felt the evidence showing the cash withdrawal immediately after the 
fraudulent money went into Mrs Ds account demonstrated her involvement. She wasnt 
going to ask Metro to do anything further.
Mrs D continued to protest. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
It is clear what the requirements are prior to lodging a marker. Specifically:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted.
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently 
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So Metro must be able to provide clear evidence that a financial crime was being committed 
and Mrs D was involved. 
Ive seen the evidence about the funds paid into Mrs Ds account. These were the result of 
someone being scammed. Theres no doubt this money wasnt hers.
However within twenty minutes of the money being received, money was withdrawn at a 
cash machine for nearly half the amount received into the account. Mrs D has said this 
couldnt have been her as she didnt go to London, but this doesnt match up with the other 
information Ive seen about Mrs Ds account.
There are other times when Mrs Ds debit card is used for transport in London other than the 
date of the disputed credit and cash withdrawal.
Mrs D has told us she barely used her Metro account, but Ive seen records of the 
transactions on this account as well as records of her phone conversations with Metro so 
dont believe this was the case. Shes also admitted making a transfer into her Metro 
account just the day before the disputed credit.
Mrs D has denied anyone else having access to her debit card so I cant see how anyone 
other than her could have noted the credit into her account (which was early in the morning) 
and then make the cash withdrawal of £250, also early in the morning.
Overall Im satisfied that Metro had sufficient evidence to lodge the CIFAS marker and close 
Mrs Ds account.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint against Metro 
Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman