DRN-1804243
The complaint
S, a limited company in the hospitality sector, complains about a commercial mortgage 
provided by Barclays Bank UK Plc. Mr R, S director, says Barclays delayed the mortgage 
completion, preventing S from opening, resulting in tens of thousands of pounds in lost 
revenue. 
Barclays accepted responsibility for some, but not all, of the delay and offered the company 
£500 compensation for inconvenience. It said that under the customer agreement, it was not 
liable for trading losses. Mr R now accepts the company cant claim for trading losses but 
says it should have a refund of the £4,600 paid as an arrangement fee for the mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions:
Although S is no longer disputing the point, for completeness Im satisfied that its claim 
for trading losses appears rather excessive. As far as I can tell, it consists of multiplying 
the number of available rooms by the tariff, with no deduction of operating costs, or 
allowance for anything less than an assumed 100% occupancy. 
The arrangement fee S paid Barclays was in order that it would provide the commercial 
mortgage; the mortgage was provided, so S received what the fee paid for. Whilst the 
service the bank provided in doing so fell Sort of expectations, that doesnt justify a 
waiver of the arrangement fee. 
However, it warrants a payment of compensation for the extra management time and 
resource S had to expend, and the resulting inconvenience. Barclays offer of £500 is fair 
in all the circumstances. Ill leave it to Mr R to decide if he wants to accept it on S behalf.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Rs frustration, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman