DRN-1901532
The complaint
Mr Y and Mrs Y are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a 
claim for damage to their roof under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Y noticed some water marks on the bedroom ceiling. When he tried to make an 
insurance claim, RSA turned it down. It said it wasnt the result of storm damage or 
accidental damage so wasnt covered by the terms of the policy.
Mr Y and Mrs Y complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that both parties agreed that it wasnt due to storm damage. He also said that the issue 
with the roof didnt meet the definition of accidental damage. He thought that RSA had dealt 
with the claim fairly.
As Mr Y and Mrs Y did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA and Mr Y and Mrs Y agree that the issue with the roof isnt due to storm damage and 
looking at the circumstances of the case, I have no reason to think differently. Looking at the 
policy, this leaves one relevant section of the policy which might cover the roof damage. This 
is the accidental damage section. The policy defines this as: Sudden, unexpected and 
visible damage which hasnt been caused on purpose. 
The water leak related to a flat felt roof. Looking at RSAs surveyors report, this said the flat 
roof was inspected and that the flat roof hadnt been re-felted since 1989. It then said To the 
main ridge, all the tiles are in position, none have been displaced or uplifted, there is 
however some cracking to the mortar which is just a natural breakdown of materials. There 
is not any storm damage which is evident to the roof.
Although when RSA inspected the roof it assessed it on the basis of whether the damage 
was due to a storm, I have seen evidence that it did also consider whether it was 
accidental damage and discussed this with Mr Y. As part of this, RSA said to Mr Y You 
mentioned the possibility of it being accidental damage however, I cannot agree that the 
damage was unexpected and sudden. The roof is open to the elements and it's expected 
to weather and deteriorate over a period of time.
Mr Y told our investigator that two builders inspected the roof before he contacted RSA. 
He hasnt provided a written report from either of them but Mr Y said they told him that the 
cracks on the ridge tiles were on the south-west side but none on the other side. He then 
said that in the builders opinion when the dormer was constructed one line of full roof top 
tiles was left upright with slight angle in order to fit and overlap the felt under ridge tiles 
over the length of dormer section; this may have caused extra resistance to any speed of wind blow and splashing rain may have caused extra wetness and skin of water 
accumulation over tiles and mortar joints of the tiles at this section of the roof.
Mr Y also said that the combination of rain and minus temperatures followed by sunshine 
and warmer temperatures might have caused fractures or cracks to the tiles and mortar 
joints. He also said that the affected area was much newer than some other parts of the 
roof, but the older parts hadnt been affected in the same way. He therefore couldnt 
understand how it could be the result of a natural breakdown of materials. Mr Y also said 
that the dormer roof had new felt and ridge tiles around the mid-1990s, or maybe slightly 
earlier or later. He said it was therefore inaccurate for RSA to say that the roof hadnt been 
re-felted since 1989. Mr Y strongly disagreed with RSAs view that the damage wasnt 
sudden and unexpected.
I have thought about this carefully, including Mr Ys detailed response to the investigators 
findings. Looking at Mr Ys account of what the builders said, they were describing the 
construction of the dormer roof and what this might have meant for its ability to withstand 
the weather. That being the case, my view is that it doesnt meet the definition of 
accidental damage.
Mr Y has also described the impact of changes in the weather and that this might have 
caused the fractures or cracks. Thinking about this, the roof would have been subject to 
those varying weather conditions over a considerable period of time. The deterioration of 
the roof due to change in the weather conditions doesnt meet the definition of accidental 
damage. 
Looking at the policy, an uninsurable risk is defined as Any loss, damage  of any kind 
directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from wear and tear  or deterioration, or 
anything that happens gradually over a period of time. Thinking about what Mr Y has 
described, my view is that what he has described meets the definition of an uninsurable 
risk. On that basis, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for RSA to turn down the claim.
Im aware that Mr Y has also said that this part of the roof was considerably newer than 
other parts of the roof, which didnt fail. He therefore says this means that the damage 
couldnt be due to a natural breakdown in material. However, it is possible for an issue, 
only or mainly, to affect one part of a roof. This can be for a range of reasons, including 
the construction of the roof or the impact of weather conditions, as has been described 
here. I therefore dont think that the condition of other parts of the roof means that this part 
of the roof couldnt have deteriorated in this way over a period of time. 
On the basis of all of the above, I think that RSA acted reasonably in how it dealt with the 
claim and that it doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman