DRN-2663416
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mrs Bs credit card account was opened in 1993 with a credit limit of £1,050. Between 1993 
and 2016, Barclaycard increased the credit limit 12 times with the final limit reaching 
£15,050. Barclaycard havent given consent for our service to look into the credit limit 
increases beyond the six years prior to Mrs B bringing her complaint. Barclaycard say Mrs B 
will have been aware of the credit limit increases at the time so she will have been aware 
she had cause for complaint. The following credit limit increases were applied within the six 
years prior to Mrs B bringing her complaint to our service:
Date March 2014 October 2014 June 2015 August 2016
Credit limit £8,550 £10.050 £14,050 £15,050
 
Mrs B complained to Barclaycard as she felt they had unfairly increased her credit limits. 
Barclaycard responded and explained they periodically review accounts and contact 
customers to let them know they have been selected for a proactive credit limit increase. 
They said they inform customers 30 days before the limit is increased and offer an 
opportunity for customers to opt out. Barclaycard didnt uphold this part of the complaint. 
They accepted there had been an error in the service they provided when Mrs B called them 
to complain. And, to apologise they applied £25 credit to Mrs Bs account. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. She thought Barclaycard had acted reasonably 
in increasing Mrs Bs credit limit. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. I can see Mrs B has 
raised a number of points in response to our investigators view. I have carefully considered 
all points but if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. 
I feel its important for me to clarify, my decision only covers the points which have been 
addressed by Barclaycard in their final response letter in March 2020. 
I can see Mrs B has raised further complaint points but I cant see Barclaycard have been 
given an opportunity to address these. So, these will need to be raised with Barclaycard 
before our service can look into them.     
Credit limit increases
Mrs Bs credit card agreement sets out the terms and conditions of her account. This says 
Barclaycard will review Mrs Bs credit limits from time to time and if they increase her credit 
limit theyll always tell her first and give her 30 days notice. They say when Mrs B receives 
the notice she can tell them not to increase it. And, Mrs B can tell Barclaycard to always 
check with her first before increasing her credit limit. The terms and conditions say 
Barclaycard wont increase Mrs Bs credit limit if they think she cant afford to make the 
repayments. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that they didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that they shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs B could repay the credit in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
The first point Ive addressed is whether I think Barclaycard carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. Section 5 of the Consumer Credit (CONC) sourcebook, in place at the 
time, outline that the assessment that Barclaycard needed to complete shouldve been 
dependent on, and proportionate to, a number of factors  including the amount and cost of 
the credit and the consumers borrowing history. CONC also provides guidance on the 
sources of information Barclaycard may have wanted to consider as part of making a 
proportionate assessment. It then gives examples of factors a firm must consider and refers 
to whether the information the firm has is sufficient and whether to obtain additional 
information from the customer and any other sources of information to use.    
   
Barclaycard is free to decide how to set their lending criteria but they should complete 
proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is sustainable. In this case, I can see that 
Barclaycard, when applying the credit limit increases between March 2014 to August 2016, 
considered information including any signs of over indebtedness or delinquency. They also 
receive information from Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and use this, together with 
information on how Mrs B is performing against her Barclaycard account, to work out a score 
which determines the probability of the account defaulting in the next 12 months  they refer 
to this as the probability of default score. 
I think the checks carried out by Barclaycard are reasonable and proportionate as they take 
into account a number of factors. And, the checks carried out are the type I would 
reasonably expect because they would help Barclaycard to not only build a picture of       
Mrs Bs financial situation, but also to assist in determining whether she could repay the 
credit in a sustainable way. 
The next point Ive considered is whether Barclaycard made a fair lending decision bearing 
in mind the information gathered and what they knew about Mrs Bs circumstances. To help 
decide this, Ive looked at how Mrs B was performing against this account over the period 
March 2014 to August 2016 when the credit limit increases were applied. Following the 
credit limit increase in March 2014 and against the credit limit of £8,550, the statements 
show Mrs Bs highest level of borrowing was £4,051.08  which is 47% of the maximum 
available to her. 
Following the credit limit increase in October 2014 and against the credit limit of £10,050, 
Mrs Bs highest level of borrowing was £5,567.67 which is 55% of the maximum available 
to her. Following the credit limit increase in June 2015 and against the credit limit of £14,050, 
Mrs Bs highest level of borrowing was £8,500.38  which is 61% of the maximum available 
to her. Following the credit limit increase in August 2016 and against the credit limit of £15,050, Mrs Bs highest level of borrowing was £8,373.17  which is 56% of the maximum 
available to her.
Taking the above into account, I think Mrs B was managing her account well within the credit 
limits. I cant see any occasion where Mrs Bs borrowing was close to the limit and the 
statements also show Mrs B wasnt using the additional credit facility as soon as it became 
available. In fact, through the period Im looking at, the highest level of borrowing was 
£8,500.38 and this didnt even exceed the lowest credit limit of £8,550 available to Mrs B 
over this period. In addition to this, and over the period the credit limit increases were 
applied, Mrs B never missed any payments, and didnt incur any late or missed fee charges. 
So, I think its reasonable for Barclaycard to take the view that Mrs B was managing her 
account well.    
Ive also looked at other factors which Barclaycard took into account at the point the credit 
limit increases were applied. Barclaycard received information from CRAs which showed no 
missed payments on other accounts or any flags suggesting Mrs B was becoming          
over-indebted. Barclaycard say the maximum score for the probability of default is 9999, with 
1 being the best score. I can see this was calculated for each credit limit increase and the 
score for the March 2014 increase was 62  which means there was a 0.62% chance of   
Mrs B defaulting in the next 12 months. The score for the later increases was as follows; 
October 2014  188 (1.8%), June 2015  69 (0.69%), August 2016  39 (0.39%). I think this 
demonstrates Mrs B was generally managing any external debt as well as her Barclaycard 
account reasonably well. And, the factors Barclaycard took into account to calculate the 
probability of default score were not only fair and reasonable but show there was a very low 
probability of Mrs B defaulting.  
Barclaycard say they wrote to Mrs B prior to each credit limit increase. I can see from a 
template letter theyve provided, they ask their customers to let Barclaycard know if they 
dont want their credit limit to be increased. And, I can see from system notes provided by  
Barclaycard they notified Mrs B of the credit limit increase prior to it being applied to the 
account. This gave Mrs B an opportunity to decline the offer. And, I havent seen any 
evidence which shows that Mrs B declined Barclaycards offer to increase her credit limit. 
So, bearing this in mind and without any information to suggest that the increase would be 
unaffordable, I cant say Barclaycard should have done anything differently here. Whilst the 
increases did mean that the limit almost doubled from March 2014 to August 2016, 
Barclaycard have demonstrated that they carried out proportionate checks and there was 
nothing else to suggest Mrs B might have struggled to maintain the borrowing. 
I can see Mrs B says she never received notification of the credit limit increases but 
Barclaycard have provided evidence showing they sent notification of the credit limit 
increases to Mrs B prior to applying it to the account and giving Mrs B an opportunity to 
decline. In addition to this, the statements show the credit limits so this also will have 
highlighted to Mrs B that her credit limit had increased.  
Mrs B says Barclaycard have issued letters to customers where they accept they might have 
set credit limits too high. Im aware Barclaycard have sent such letters to customers but I 
dont think thats relevant to Mrs Bs complaint. Firstly, I cant see Barclaycard have issued 
this letter to Mrs B or that there is any admission on their part about setting Mrs Bs credit 
limits too high. 
Secondly, I cant say there has been any impact here following the credit limit increases. For 
example, Mrs B wasnt using the extra credit facility and neither did she get herself into a 
position where payments following the additional lending became unsustainable.  
I understand Mrs B feels Barclaycard should have carried out an income and expenditure 
assessment as her financial circumstances would have changed over the 20+ years she held the account. Some lenders will use an income and expenditure assessment as part of 
its lending criteria to get an understanding of a customers available income after deducting 
all expenses. I think its a helpful tool to assess a customers financial circumstances but Im 
not persuaded Barclaycard have made an error here in not doing one. Lenders can set their 
own lending criteria but they should complete proportionate checks to ensure borrowing is 
sustainable. And, in this case, for the reasons I have set out, I think Barclaycard carried out 
proportionate checks.  
  
Lack of help and support 
I am very sorry to hear about Mrs Bs personal circumstances  this includes the unfortunate 
and sudden loss of her husband and the impact this had on her mental and emotional well-
being. I note Mrs B says she made many personal sacrifices to reduce her expenditure after 
being left in a position where she had to survive on one income. 
Mrs B says she called Barclaycard between 2016 and 2018 to discuss her personal 
circumstances and financial difficulties and to ask for help and support. We do expect 
lenders to treat consumers, who are experiencing financial difficulty or are vulnerable, 
sympathetically and positively. I feel that has been the case here. I understand Mrs B says 
she raised concerns in 2016 and 2017 by phone and Barclaycard didnt take any steps to 
help her. Weve asked Barclaycard for these call recordings but theyre no longer able to 
retrieve these calls. They have provided system notes and these dont show any record of 
Mrs B asking for help in 2016. They do show Barclaycard taking steps to help Mrs B by 
reducing, and then stopping interest, in 2017 in response to Mrs Bs requests. They also 
show a number of occasions where Barclaycard waive the interest fee. Then in 2018, 
Barclaycard move the account balance onto a promotional rate of interest. So, this shows 
Barclaycard have taken into account Mrs Bs circumstances and did take steps to help her.
I note Mrs B feels Barclaycard should have talked her through other options to find the best 
solution for her. Barclaycard say they arent in a position to give Mrs B information about 
obtaining a credit card from another lender in order to transfer her balance into. And, they 
cant advise her on taking out a loan with which to repay her balance. I dont think 
Barclaycards response here is unreasonable. I feel its fair and reasonable for Barclaycard 
to consider options to help Mrs B manage her repayments to them but I dont think this 
should include advice about alternative lenders who might be offering a lower rate of 
interest.    
I understand Mrs B has experienced financial difficulty and I am sorry to hear about the 
impact this has had on her health. My decision however focusses on what Barclaycard knew 
about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time they increased her credit limits between 2014 and 
2016. And, for the reasons I have given, I dont think theyve acted unfairly.  
In summary, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint in this matter as I feel Barclaycard carried out 
reasonable checks and made a fair decision to lend. Barclaycard accept they did make an 
error in leaving Mrs B on hold for an unreasonable period and for the call being disconnected 
when the agent tried to transfer the call. They apologised and paid £25 compensation  and 
I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Barclaycard to 
take any further steps.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman