DRN-2291016
The complaint
Mr K complains that Atom Bank PLC. (Atom) didnt take him off its mailing list. He would like 
an apology, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr K say he got an unexpected email from Atom on 19 February 2020 which he wasnt 
expecting as he no longer held an account with Atom. He says the email confused him and 
referred to an App and to getting information from a vault which he didnt understand.
He said he called Atom the same day who told him it had to keep his details for seven years. 
And that the email he received was a service not a marketing email. Mr K says he disputes 
this since the email mentioned contacting him about products.
Mr K says he found this very stressful to deal with .He had to register online to access 
Atoms final response letter. He said even if Atom must keep his details, he would like to be 
taken off its mailing lists.
Atom said it was required under law to advise all customers of changes to terms and 
conditions. It identifies customers as anyone who registered with it via its App and as Mr K 
was registered in this way that explains why he got the email he did. It said it wont delete 
customers contact details unless specifically asked to do so. However, as Mr K has now 
specifically requested this it has taken him off its systems and he shouldnt get any more 
correspondence.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She found the email Atom sent on 19 February 2020  
wasnt necessary information Mr K needed to be aware of. She found Atom had apologised 
and has now removed Mr K from its mailing lists. But felt the situation could have been 
handled sooner and in a better way.
She recommended Atom pay Mr K £75 for the distress and inconvenience.
Mr K accepted this view, but Atom didnt. It said it didnt believe it was wrong to contact Mr K 
initially since some to the terms and conditions he accepted had changed. And it has now 
removed Mr K from its contact list. It acknowledged it could have acted more quickly in doing 
this but felt to uphold Mr Ks complaint and recommend £75 compensation was too 
generous.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Atom sent Mr K an email despite the fact he no longer had an 
account with the bank. Atom  explained it may be required to issue service communications 
for example changes to terms and conditions as was the case here. But that customers can 
ask to have their details erased.
I havent seen any evidence to show, that before Mr K received the email of February 2019, 
that he asked for his details to be erased. I dont see why it would have occurred to him to do 
so .
Mr K feels the email he received was more a marketing email since it referred to Atom being 
in touch in the future with details of products. Having read the email, it seems to me its both 
a service and marketing email. And I am not sure of the logic of needing to advise Mr K of 
changes to terms and conditions when he no longer held an account with Atom
I have listened to the phone call Mr K made on the day he received the email. I felt the call 
handler handled the well despite the fact Mr K was clearly very annoyed . Whilst Mr K might 
not have liked the explanation, she did explain why the email had been sent, she told Mr K of 
his right to have his details erased and offered to set up a complaint for him. I am not sure 
what more she could have done.
I understand Atom has now taken Mr Ks details off its system which is what he wanted .And 
I have noted in its final response letter it also apologised to Mr k which again is what he 
wanted.
Atom has disputed the need to pay Mr K £75 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
It said it needed to contact Mr K as although he was no longer a customer, he had 
downloaded its App and the update related to that. It said it was unaware Mr K no longer had 
the App, and whilst it acknowledges there was some delay in taking Mr K off the mailing list it 
had now done so.
We dont always award financial compensation, so I have asked Mr K to give me his view on 
this before I made my final decision to help me decide if the £75 compensation our 
investigator suggested was reasonable. 
I am persuaded by Mr Ks comments that he had to exchange several emails and a phone 
call in order to resolve the matter which was only done so when he put in his complaint to us. 
He also pointed out that the email he got asked him to log onto a system he no longer had 
access to. And I dont see the need to have contact Mr K at all as he was no longer a 
customer. So, I do feel Mr K was put to some inconvenience and a payment of £75 to reflect 
this is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Atom Bank PLC should pay Mr K £75 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman