DRN-3441697
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (BBI) has rejected her 
claim for veterinary treatment for her dog.
What happened
The background to Miss Bs complaint has been set out in detail by our investigator in his 
view so I wont repeat it here at length. Briefly stated, Miss B has a dog that Ill refer to as B 
which she has insured with BBI since 10 November 2020. 
Before Miss B insured B with BBI, B had received veterinary treatment for conjunctivitis in 
his eye. In September 2021 Miss B took B to the vets with another eye problem. The vet 
diagnosed eye ulceration. When Miss B claimed for the cost of treatment for this ulcer from 
BBI, it rejected her claim on the ground that the eye ulceration was a pre-existing medical 
condition and as such was excluded by the terms of the policy. It refereed to the following 
policy terms:
PRE-EXISTING CONDITION: Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has
occurred or existed, or has shown signs or symptoms of existing in any form before
the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period in the first Period of Insurance. This
also includes any diagnosis or any clinical signs caused by or resulting from an
Accidental Injury or Illness Your pet had on an Associated Condition before the Policy
Start Date or within the Waiting Period in the first Period of Insurance.
VETERINARY FEES
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or that
showed signs of existence before Your Policy Start Date.
GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of claim, these
conditions will not be covered and We have the right to void the Policy.
BBI referred to Bs previous medical history. It noted that B had been treated for 
conjunctivitis in June and October 2014 and in May 2020. Hed also been treated for 
entropion in his lower eyelid in 2018. These conditions werent declared to BBI when Miss B 
took out her policy in November 2020. 
Bs vet treated him for an eye ulcer between September and November 2020, for which Miss 
B made her claim. BBI rejected this on the ground that the conjunctivitis and entropion that B 
received treatment for before the policy was taken out were pre-existing conditions, and its 
policies dont cover any claims where the condition or signs and symptoms were present 
prior to the inception of the policy.  It said that: 
as B suffered from conditions relating to his eyes prior to [the] policys inception, this 
means that we are unable to provide cover for any conditions relating to his eyes. 
Following BBIs rejection of Miss Bs claim, Bs vet wrote to BBI to explain that the conditions 
B had previously received treatment for were not connected to his current condition. He 
stated:
The previous conjunctivitis is not related to the current presenting eye complaint, as 
the issue resolved 17 months prior to the onset of the current eye ulceration. 
According to our patient history no eye issue was reported in intervening time. 
Miss B argues that BBIs view is that because the most recent treatment affects the same 
area of the body as the previous treatment, the policy excludes all conditions in that area, 
not just pre-existing conditions. She says that had the policy stated that it wouldnt cover any 
claims for conditions affecting any part of the body that had received treatment previously 
even for a completely new and unrelated condition, she wouldn't have taken out the policy in 
the first place. 
Miss B wasnt satisfied with BBIs rejection of her claim and brought her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator took into account that BBI hadnt provided any professional opinion 
of a connection between the ulceration in Bs eyes, and the previous conjunctivitis.
Our investigators view was that there was insufficient evidence from BBI to say that the 
conjunctivitis and ulcer were linked, and Bs vet had specifically stated that they werent. In 
his view, Miss Bs claim should be reconsidered without relying on the exclusion, in line with
the remaining policy terms. 
In response to our investigators view, BBI didnt provide any further evidence and asked that 
Miss Bs complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Ive therefore been asked to provide a final 
decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
The treatment Miss B claimed for is treatment for Bs eye ulceration. BBI has rejected Miss 
Bs claim for this on the ground that its for a Pre-existing condition and therefore excluded 
under the terms of Miss Bs policy. I therefore need to consider whether Bs previous medical 
history includes: 
Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has occurred or existed, or has 
shown signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date.
Having looked at Bs medical history, theres no reference to any previously diagnosed 
condition of eye ulceration. I therefore need to consider the evidence for any undiagnosed 
condition, or for any signs or symptoms of any such condition existing in any form before 10 
November 2020. 
Not being a veterinary specialist, I am guided by the information provided by those that are. 
The only evidence provided to me is from Bs vet who has stated that the previous 
conjunctivitis is not related to the eye ulceration. BBI hasnt provided any clinical evidence to 
contradict this. I also dont consider that BBI is acting reasonably in stating that any condition relating to Bs 
eyes is excluded because of a previous history of an eye condition. Those conditions may be 
in no way related. If the policy exclusions were to be so widely interpreted, this should be 
clearly drawn to the attention of a policy holder.
I therefore agree with our investigators view that BBI hasnt handled Miss Bs claim fairly 
based on the evidence available. I also agree with our investigators view as to how BBI 
needs to put this right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Bs complaint.
I require Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to settle Miss Bs claim subject to the other 
terms and conditions of her policy.
If this leads to Miss Bs claim being settled, I require Building Block Insurance PCC Limited       
to pay interest on the sum payable to Miss B at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date 
Miss B made her claim to the date payment is made to her.
If Building Block Insurance PCC Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss B a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman