DRN-3658462
The complaint
Mr L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) unfairly turned down his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to payments he made using his 
credit card to purchase a timeshare product.
What happened
In or around April 2011, Mr L (together with his wife) agreed to purchase a timeshare product 
from a supplier who Ill refer to as D. The total purchase price of the product purchased 
was £5,670 and included Club membership with a nominal 5,000 points rights which could 
be used against holidays and accommodation from within Ds portfolio. 
The purchase price was funded by making two payments using a credit card provided by 
RBS in Mr Ls sole name. The first for £1,134 on 19 April 2011 and the second for £4,536 on 
4 May 2011.
In or around April 2017, using a professional representative (the PR), Mr and Mrs L 
submitted a claim to RBS under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA). The PR said that D made a number of promises to Mr and Mrs L about the product 
which turned out not to be true. They also said thered been a breach of contract albeit Mr 
and Mrs L were only ever provided with one sheet, which they signed. They said they do 
not know if there were other documents [] and requested RBSs assistance in obtaining 
the documents whereupon, they would clarify the claim for breach of contract.
In response to the claim, RBS didnt think the PR had provided any proof thered been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation. And because of that, they werent able to consider 
the claim. The PR responded with reference to legal documents they say governed the 
product Mr and Mrs L had purchased. They said various provisions of those documents were 
misrepresented which mean that Mr and Mrs L are entitled to rescind the contract and 
purchase agreement as a consequence.
RBS didnt think this information provided tangible evidence of the alleged verbal 
misrepresentations by D. 
The PR then suggested to RBS the product was sold as membership to an exclusive club 
from which It must be accepted [they] would gain access to exclusive resorts, namely 
accommodation unavailable to non-members and/or accommodation which is cheaper than 
can be found elsewhere. They provided information to suggest that wasnt the case.
RBS responded by pointing out that the credit card payments had, in fact, been made to 
another company Ill refer to as F, and not to D. Because of this, they werent able to 
establish a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) relationship between Mr L and D and thought 
that S75 didnt apply here.
Unhappy with RBSs response, the PR referred Mr and Mrs Ls complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information and evidence available, our investigator didnt agree a 
DCS relationship hadnt been established and thought the S75 claim was valid. However, 
the investigator didnt think there was any evidence to support any misrepresentation or 
breach of contract by D. 
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings. They referenced in detail various sales 
practices employed by D together with their observations of the contracts and other 
paperwork that applied to Mr and Mrs Ls purchase. They highlighted what they considered 
to be various contraventions of the rules and regulations that applied to product sales of this 
kind. But our investigator couldnt see how these applied to the S75 claim for 
misrepresentation and breach of contract. 
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider further.
Prior to me considering this complaint, the PR said they also wished to rely on a 51-page 
document produced by counsel containing Generic submissions on behalf of complainants, 
which relates specifically to complaints about the sale of points products by D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant Considerations
The purchase here was completed using a credit card in Mr Ls sole name. So, while the 
claim submitted was in joint names with his Mr Ls wife, Mr L is the only eligible claimant 
under the CCA and, as such, the only eligible complainant.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Handbook means Im required to take into account; relevant law and 
regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. Mr L paid 
for the timeshare points with a credit card issued by RBS, so S75 could apply here as long 
as the required debtor-creditor-supplier relationship is demonstrated. This would mean that 
Mr L is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like him under those provisions. And as a 
result, Ive taken this section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of 
this case.
Its important to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service 
(ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. The complaint being considered here 
specifically relates to whether I believe RBSs treatment of Mr Ls claim was fair and 
reasonable given all the evidence and information available. While the decision of an 
ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we do not provide a legal 
service. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my decision is 
made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I 
think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence thats available from the 
time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt necessarily to address, in my 
decision, every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to 
what I believe are the most salient points having considered everything thats been said and 
provided.Misrepresentation and breach of contract
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by D in the way that has been alleged, 
generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available evidence, that D 
made false statements of fact when selling the holiday products in April 2011. In other 
words, that they told Mr L something that wasnt true in relation to one or more of any points 
raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations were material in 
inducing Mr L to enter the contract. This means I would need to be persuaded that Mr L 
reasonably relied on these false statements when deciding to buy the membership points.
Allegations have been made specifically relating to the product sale referenced above. So, 
Ive considered those allegations against the information available from the Time of the Sale. 
Limited documents from that time appear to be available. But I have considered what the PR 
have provided.
The difficulty I have is identifying what was actually said at the time of the sale. The PR have 
provided limited details and evidence to support the misrepresentations Mr L says the seller 
made, although I acknowledge that he does say he was told these things. So, Ive thought 
about this alongside the evidence thats available from the time of the sale. 
Although not determinative of the matter, Ive not seen any specific evidence from that time, 
such as marketing material or any of the wider purchase documentation. And whilst I have 
seen a one-page document, I cant see that it supports what Mr L says he was told or that 
what was said amounted to misrepresentation. And while I dont doubt the honesty of his 
recollections, honesty isnt the same as credibility  which is an important distinction to make 
for the purpose of this complaint (see what Mr Justice Leggatt had to say in Gestmin SGPC 
S.A. v Credit Suisse (UK) Limited [2013].1
But even if I was to put to one side what the courts might say about the reliability of human 
memory, experience tells me that the more time that passes between a complaint and the 
event complained about, the more risk there is of recollections being vague, inaccurate and 
influenced by discussions with others. And having not been present at the Time of the Sale, 
it isnt possible for me to determine with certainty what Mr L was or wasnt told by D. So, in 
the end, the part his recollections play in determining the outcome of this complaint comes 
down to the extent they can be corroborated given any other evidence available.
For example, the PR have reached a conclusion that exclusivity equates to accommodation 
unavailable to non-members and/or accommodation which is cheaper than can be found 
elsewhere. But the PR havent provided any evidence specific to Mr Ls purchase which 
references or defines exclusivity. So, this appears to be either the PRs or Mr Ls own 
interpretation rather than what he was actually told, whether verbally or in writing.
Furthermore, the PR suggested to RBS that various aspects of the legal documents they say 
apply to Mr Ls purchase contain information he wasnt advised of. And from that, they 
conclude these amount to misrepresentation. Its generally accepted that misrepresentation 
usually relates to anything conveyed that is factually incorrect, known to be at that time and 
acted as an inducement. I dont believe the alleged failure to explain or highlight something 
constitutes a misrepresentation. 
As regards any breach of contract, I cant see the PR have provided any details of what it is 
that they say D has done or not done that breaches the terms of the contract entered into. In 
particular, while theyve referred to product agreements and timeshare contracts generically 
offered by D, I havent been provided with a copy of the contract or product agreement that 
applies specifically to Mr Ls purchase here. Any in any event, I cant see that any specific 
breaches of those generic contract documents have been highlighted either.
1 This was followed in Lachaux v Lachaux [2017], discussed with approval and explained by the Court of Appeal in Kogan v Martin [2019] 
(see, in particular, paragraph 88) and quoted with approval by the Supreme Court in Bancoult, R (on the application of) (No 3) v Secretary 
of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs (Respondent) [2018].The alleged regulation breaches
The PR have explained in detail why they believe Ds sales practices, together with their 
purchase and contract documentation breaches the various rules and regulations that apply 
to timeshare product sales of this type. But I cant see how this relates to any allegations of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract made here. And as theres been no specific claim 
submitted to RBS in relation to the fairness (or otherwise) of the agreement, I dont think this 
is something I can consider further within the context of this complaint.
Ive considered the various points included in the Counsels submissions as provided by the 
PR. However, these were generic points and not specific to Mr Ls recollections of the sale. 
So, I dont think they offered much help in making factual findings in Mr Ls case.
Was the right arrangement in place? 
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a 
claim under that provision. 
As it appears that payments under the purchase agreement were be made to a trustee 
rather than the D directly, its possible that there was no such agreement in place following a 
very recent High Court judgment in the case of Steiner v National Westminster Bank PLC 
[2022]. 
However, as I understand it, the claimant there sought permission to appeal that decision. 
And, in any event, given the overall outcome Ive reached, I dont think its necessary to 
make a formal finding on the debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement for the purpose of this 
decision because I dont think the complaint should succeed under S75.
Conclusion
Having considered everything thats been said together with the limited evidence available 
here, Ive not been able to find anything that supports the alegations of misrepresentation or 
breach of contract under S75. And on that basis, I cant say that RBSs response to Mr Ls 
claim was ultimately unreasonable or unfair. While I do appreciate Mr L will be disappointed, 
I wont be asking RBS to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman