DRN-4481020
The complaint
Miss N complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (VM) confirmed, on a 
number of occasions, that she qualified for a mortgage interest rate product it later refused to 
allow her to proceed with.
What happened
Miss N had a shared ownership mortgage with VM for approximately £169,000. The original 
mortgage was fixed at an interest rate of 3.79% until December 2023. 
In June 2023 Miss N wanted to fix her interest rate again  this time for five years. She went 
through a broker to try to get a new fixed rate with VM.
Miss N says VM confirmed to her broker on 3 July 2023 that she qualified for a five-year 
fixed rate at 4.58%. But, on 20 July 2023, VM realised it had made an error as Miss N did 
not qualify for the 4.58% because her loan to value percentage (LTV) was too high. She 
says the rate she was told she did qualify for was too expensive and she spent hours on the 
phone over four separate calls to VM on 18 August 2023 to work out a cheaper alternative. 
To achieve that she had to make a £625 overpayment to reduce her LTV to 90%. Miss N 
complained to VM.
In its final response letter dated 12 September 2023, VM said it upholds Miss Ns complaint 
in part. It said Miss Ns broker applied for a rate that was not available for borrowers with 
shared ownership mortgages and it advised the broker of that in an email on 26 June 2023. 
But the broker emailed VM again on 28 June 2023 asking for an update and again, VM 
responded saying the broker would need to select a different rate. In its final response letter, 
VM explained that its broker application portal states that shared ownership product 
transfers are not available via the portal and brokers should call VMs support team for help. 
So, it said it hadnt made an error in that regard.
VM acknowledged that it told Miss Ns broker  in a call on 3 July 2023  that she did qualify 
for a rate of 4.58%. But, following that call, VM calculated her LTV and realised she only 
qualified for a rate applicable to borrowers with greater than 90% LTV. It also acknowledged 
Miss Ns telephone discussions with it on 18 August 2023 and, during those calls she was 
given an incorrect (non-applicable) rate twice more. To apologise for its errors VM said it 
would pay Miss N £200 (though initially it paid her £150 in error).
Dissatisfied with VMs response, Miss N asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator 
thought VMs offer of £200 to compensate Miss N for the distress and inconvenience caused 
was fair and reasonable. He said Miss N hasnt suffered a loss because VM allowed her to 
take the best rate that she qualified for.
Miss N didnt agree. She said she was misled by VM every step of the way and that resulted 
in an extremely stressful four months. And shes now out of pocket by £625 because she 
had to reduce her mortgage balance by that amount to qualify for an interest rate close to 
her expected monthly payment level. In addition, Miss N said:
It is not enough for VM to have a notice on its online system that interest rate deals 
involving shared ownership mortgages must be applied for on the telephone  its 
system shouldnt allow them to be booked on-line.
Her broker was told by VM that a rate was booked which was significantly lower than 
the one she has had to accept.
She was given incorrect advice three times in one day by VM, indicating that there is 
a problem with its system and how it deals with shared ownership mortgages.
As Miss N didnt agree with our investigator, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Miss Ns complaint, Ive thought about whether VM caused her to miss out on a 
mortgage rate deal she otherwise would have qualified for. And whether the amount of 
compensation it has paid to Miss N was sufficient, taking all the circumstances of its 
handling of her new mortgage rate application into account.
Before outlining my thoughts on those points, Id like to comment on our role  particularly 
because Miss N has complained about what VMs application portal allows, its system and 
how it deals with shared ownership mortgages. Our role isnt to punish businesses for their 
errors or to direct a business on how it should carry out tasks. For example, we wouldnt tell 
a business how it should build or run its application portal. Instead, we look to compensate 
consumers for material loss and for distress and/or inconvenience caused to them because 
of a business error. To assess distress and inconvenience, we must consider the impact to 
the individual consumer. So, thats what my decision will focus on.
The evidence provided shows that Miss Ns broker booked a mortgage rate deal  fixed at 
4.58% for 5 years  on 19 June 2023. That product applied to LTVs up to 65%. VM emailed 
the broker on 26 June 2023 to say that product did not apply to shared ownership mortgages 
and the broker needed to call VM to discuss the products available. Following a chase-up 
email from the broker, VM confirmed again that the broker needed to call to discuss a new 
product.
Ive listened to the recording of the call the broker made on 3 July 2023. In that call the 
broker told VM that the LTV was 46% and VM said that it offers a different five-year fixed 
rate product to shared ownership customers, but that product  like the one the broker had 
booked  was currently 4.58%. 
I think, in that instance, VM responded based on the information that was given by the 
broker. It transpired  when TM assessed the application  that Miss Ns LTV was actually 
over 90%. I dont think VM caused that error  giving Miss N the impression that she still 
qualified for a rate of 4.58%. That said, in its final response letter, I note that VM said it could 
have done more at the time to check the LTV, and that appears to have been a factor in its 
decision to award her £200.
I understand that Miss N suffered inconvenience when she discussed matters with VM on  
18 August 2023 and that, during those calls, VM gave her incorrect information several 
times. While I understand that caused frustration to Miss N, I dont think she suffered 
financially as a result of her interactions with VM that day  I think she ended-up getting the 
lowest five-year fixed rate deal available to her, unless she remortgaged with another lender. 
And while I dont doubt her frustration, I think the cause of that was limited to one day.Miss N says shes out of pocket because she had to reduce her mortgage balance to qualify 
for the rate she eventually received. But I dont agree that shes out of pocket because of the 
payment she made. I say that because that payment reduced the amount she owes to VM, 
thereby reducing the balance on which it will charge her interest in the future. And that 
payment was required for her to qualify for a lower interest rate deal. Without that payment 
her new deal would have been set at a higher interest rate, which, again, would have cost 
her more over the long term.
I understand that Miss N is disappointed that she didnt get the rate that she initially applied 
for and that VM told her broker she qualified for. However, due to her circumstances  
specifically her LTV  at no point did she actually qualify for that rate. So, I dont agree not 
getting the rate she wanted represents a financial loss to her  instead its a loss in 
expectation, albeit that caused disappointment to Miss N.
VM has allowed Miss N to stay on her existing rate until that expires  thereby avoiding the 
early redemption charge shed planned to pay  before moving on to the new five-year fixed 
rate. Again, that is a benefit to her, due to her existing interest rate being lower than her new 
one. 
Overall, while I understand Miss Ns frustration with the process, it has resulted in her being 
in a better position than she ought reasonably to have expected. I think the payment made 
by VM already made to Miss N is in line with what Id award given the level of distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. As VM offered to make that payment to her as part of its final 
response to her complaint, I dont uphold the complaint shes asked us to consider.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ns complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman