DRN-3753816
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax refused to make a payment he 
instructed and went on to block his online banking facility. Mr R also complains that Halifax 
wont send him a new debit card. 
What happened
Mr R has a current account with Halifax. In January 2022 Mr R tried to make a small 
payment to an online forex and trading business. Halifaxs systems picked up the payment 
for further checks. But when Halifax tried to verify the transaction it says it was alerted to the 
possibility of fraud. As a result, the payment wasnt made and Halifax took the step of 
blocking Mr Rs online banking facility. 
Mr R contacted Halifax and asked it to unlock the online banking facility. Mr R went on to 
raise a complaint and Halifax sent him a final response. Halifax said Mr Rs online banking 
facility had been blocked due to concerns about fraud and said he could contact its Fraud 
Operations team to unlock it. A number was given in the final response. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Rs complaint. They thought Halifax had dealt 
with Mr Rs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr R asked to appeal and 
said hed made similar payments to the same business previously without issue. Mr R also 
said hed tried to call the Fraud Operations team but the line was poor and largely 
automated. As Mr R asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the payment Mr R wanted to make was genuine. But the information on file 
shows Halifaxs fraud prevention systems picked up the payment for further checks before it 
could be approved. Ive looked at Halifaxs account terms and Im satisfied they allow it to 
take that step where it has genuine concerns about fraud. 
Halifax has explained its automated call to verify the payment was genuine didnt receive the 
expected response. As a result, it took a further precaution of blocking access to Mr Rs 
online banking facility. I appreciate this has meant Mr Rs unable to access his online 
banking facility. But, the account terms again allow Halifax to take that step when seeking to 
protect an account. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but Im satisfied Halifaxs decision to block 
his online banking facility was reasonable in the circumstances. 
To remove the block, Mr R needs to call Halifax and speak with its Fraud Operations team. I 
understand Mr R lives abroad which makes calling Halifax expensive. And Mr Rs explained 
the line was bad and Halifax uses an automated system when calling. I understand its 
harder and more expensive to make calls from abroad, but I have to balance that against 
Halifaxs obligation to protect customer accounts. Here, Halifax has explained Mr R can call 
its Fraud Operations team which will arrange for his online banking facility to be unlocked. 
Halifax has also confirmed that whilst the initial stages of the call are automated, once the 
required details are given callers will be put through to an agent to speak with. 
I dont doubt that Mr Rs location makes speaking with Halifax harder. But I have to balance 
that against Halifaxs obligation to protect customers accounts against fraud. And whilst I 
understand there is some inconvenience to Mr R in this case, Im not persuaded its acted 
unfairly by asking Mr R to speak with its Fraud Prevention team. 
Mr R says hes made payments from his Halifax account to the business in question before 
and that they were approved. But Ive looked at Mr Rs bank statements going back to May 
2020 and havent seen any similar transactions to the company in question. In addition, 
Halifax has confirmed this was a new payment Mr R was trying to make, not something hed 
done from his account before. The information available supports what Halifax says. 
Once Mr R has spoken with the relevant team, Halifax has confirmed it will review his 
responses with a view to removing the account blocks. Im sorry to disappoint Mr R but I 
havent been persuaded that Halifaxs request is unfair. 
Mr R also raised concerns that Halifax is unable to send a new debit card to the country he 
lives in. But Mr Rs confirmed he understands there are postal restrictions in place that mean 
Halifax cant send a replacement card. 
As Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with Mr Rs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take further 
action. I leave it to Mr R to make arrangements to contact Halifaxs Fraud Operations team 
to speak with an agent in line with the contact details provided in its final response.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman