DRN-2820001
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs M have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined a claim under 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs M took out an insurance policy with AXA for their home. A while later, Mr S 
contacted AXA to say they would be moving out of their home while building works took 
place. AXA told Mr S it would reduce the cover offered under the policy. It said it would only 
cover damage caused by fire, lightning, explosion and aircraft and that the endorsements 
would remain in place until Mr S and Mrs M told AXA that the renovations were complete. 
AXA also told Mr S that it would refund part of the premium paid.
Mr S and Mrs M moved back into their home. A couple of months later, they were burgled. 
When Mr S and Mrs M made an insurance claim, AXA initially considered the claim but then 
declined it because it said Mr S and Mrs M hadnt told them they had moved back into the 
property, so they didnt have cover in place for theft.
When Mr S and Mrs M complained, AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim on the 
basis that they didnt have the appropriate cover in place. It offered £250 compensation for 
the delays in declining the claim because it acknowledged that it could have told Mr S and 
Mrs M earlier that they didnt have theft cover in place when they made the claim.
So, Mr S and Mrs M complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said AXA had explained the cover would be reduced while the property was unoccupied 
and that Mr S and Mrs M had been told they needed to contact AXA when they moved back 
into the property.
As Mr S and Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Im only considering the complaint related to the buildings insurance part of the claim being 
declined. Im aware that Mr S and Mrs M also complained about their contents insurance 
claim being declined, but that was a separate complaint, which wasnt referred to an 
ombudsman, and doesnt form part of this decision.
Mr S contacted AXA to say his home would be unoccupied due to building works. Ive 
listened to the phone call where this was discussed. AXAs call handler explained that, as a 
result, the cover in place for the property would be changed and said that these were 
standard endorsements for unoccupied properties. He then read out a list of what would no 
longer be covered, which included theft. Mr S asked the call handler to repeat the list, which 
the call handler then read more slowly. Mr S also asked some questions, which the call 
handler answered. The call handler explained that the endorsements would remain in place 
until Mr S and Mrs M informed AXA that the renovation work was complete. The call handler 
asked if Mr S wanted to proceed and he said that he did. The policy changes led to a 
reduction in the premium payable, so the call handler checked Mr Ss card details and 
processed a refund.
So, AXA made changes to the policy based on information provided by Mr S. The call 
handler explained to Mr S what changes would be made to the policy and that the 
endorsements would remain in place until Mr S and Mrs M informed AXA that the situation 
had changed. So, I think AXA made Mr S and Mrs M aware of the changes to the policy and 
also that it was for Mr S and Mrs M to update AXA or else the policy would continue with the 
endorsements in place. I dont think the changes to the cover were unusual and I also dont 
think it was unusual or unreasonable to require a policyholder to update an insurer when 
circumstances changed for the level of cover to be reassessed.
When the burglary took place, I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S and Mrs M had told 
AXA their situation had changed. This meant theft cover wasnt in place at the time of the 
burglary. So, AXA declined the claim on that basis. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr S and Mrs M also said they paid a premium for a product that provided cover in the event 
of a loss and that they should have cover in line with the premiums paid. When Mr S spoke 
to AXA, AXA recalculated the premium payable due to the changes to the policy, which the 
call handler told Mr S didnt include cover for theft. I havent seen anything to suggest that at 
the time of the burglary Mr S and Mrs M were paying for theft cover as part of the premium.
Im aware that when Mr S and Mrs M contacted AXA to make a claim for the burglary that it 
didnt immediately decline it. Instead, AXA took a few months to investigate the claim before 
then declining it. When AXA replied to Mr S and Mrs Ms complaint, it accepted that it should 
have declined the claim straight away and, because it didnt do so, offered £250 
compensation. Looking at what happened, I think that was reasonable.
So, thinking about all the circumstances of this complaint, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require AXA to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman