DRN-2649486
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat)) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs H took two loans from MoneyBoat between October 2019 and February 2020. A 
summary of her borrowing based on the information provided to us can be seen below.
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 08/10/2019 28/01/2020 4 £400 £148.89
2 03/02/2020 outstanding 6 £800 £238.79
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld both of Mrs Hs loans. She thought 
that the lender ought to have carried out verification checks after it received the results of 
Mrs Hs credit checks showing she had a significant number of outstanding loans. 
So the adjudicator thought MoneyBoat needed to have verified Mrs Hs circumstances, and 
had it done so, our adjudicator thought it would have seen that Mrs H had several 
outstanding short-term loans with other lenders, hone credit providers and unsecured loans. 
So, our adjudicator thought MoneyBoat were wrong to approve both of Mrs Hs loans as 
these loans were not sustainable.
It appears that Mrs H agreed with our adjudicators opinion. MoneyBoat did not respond so I 
dont know the reasons why it disagrees, if this is the case.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided.
 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs H 
could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts, and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. 
The industry regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs H approached MoneyBoat for a loan of £400. Before approving the loan, MoneyBoat 
asked Mrs H to declare her monthly income and expenditure. Mrs H declared she was 
receiving a monthly income of £2,600 and her monthly expenditure amounted to £1,868. 
This would have left Mrs H with a disposable income of £732 of which to meet her 
contractual repayments which were no more than £148.89. So, I think the repayments 
appeared affordable based on the information Mrs H declared to the lender.
But, MoneyBoat also completed a credit check. And the results of the credit check 
highlighted that Mrs H may have been having problems managing her money. MoneyBoat 
received information showing Mrs H had 27 open accounts at the time of her application, 
and that she had 35 searches conducted on her credit file within the previous 12 months. 
Which indicated that Mrs H was regularly trying to obtain credit. 
Furthermore, had MoneyBoat looked into Mrs Hs individual credit file entries, it would have 
seen that she had two open Home Credit accounts, two open payday loans and four 
instalment loans. The repayments Mrs H was making towards these Home Credit and loans 
totalled more than £1,000. 
But alongside these short-term loans, Mrs H was also paying £200 a month to a Credit 
Union, and she had eight credit cards with balances up to or over the credit card limit. So, I 
think MoneyBoat had enough information to suggest Mrs Hs circumstances were more 
complex than what she declared. And that she was borrowing from a number of other credit 
providers, and had a larger monthly debt burden than shed disclosed. Arguably the credit 
checks alone ought to have been enough for MoneyBoat not to have lent, as in my view it was clear she was already over indebted and was spending a significant amount of her 
income each month servicing her debts. 
As a minimum, MoneyBoat ought to have carried out further checks to verify the information 
it saw in order to make sure the loan was affordable and sustainable for Mrs H. MoneyBoat 
couldve done this a number of way such as asking for copies of her bills or payslip and / or 
asking to see her bank statements. This wouldve given MoneyBoat more clarity about her 
financial situation and whether she was able to sustain the repayments without any undue 
difficulties.
Ive considered Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of her loan application. I can see Mrs H 
had at least six outstanding short-term loans with other lenders. This, coupled with the 
information it gathered from the credit checks and Mrs H herself, ought to have alerted 
MoneyBoat that Mrs H was having problems managing her money and any loans wouldve 
been detrimental to Mrs Hs finances. So, I think MoneyBoat was wrong to approve loan 1 
for these reasons.
Mrs H went on to apply for her second loan a week after repaying loan 1. MoneyBoat 
completed the same checks as it had for her first loan. But again, the information it gathered 
as a result of its credit checks suggested Mrs Hs financial position had not improved. 
Mrs H now had three open Home Credit accounts, one open payday loan and three 
instalment loans. Mrs H was still making payments to eight credit cards, mail order accounts 
and a payment to a Credit Union. So, I think MoneyBoat should have concluded that Mrs Hs 
was unlikely to have been able to make the repayments for loan 2 in a sustainable way. 
Even if MoneyBoat had decided to verify Mrs Hs circumstances, rather than decline her 
application, it would have seen that Mrs H had at least five outstanding loans with other 
lenders.
As a result, I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve both of Mrs Hs loans.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case, Ive thought about what
might have happened had it not provided Mrs Hs loans, as Im satisfied it ought to have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mrs H may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this
wasnt a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative 
assuming that was even possible.
Or, Mrs H may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed, a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would
have been able to lend to Mrs H in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair orreasonable to conclude that Mrs H would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If loan two is still outstanding and its been sold to a third party, then MoneyBoat if it can 
should buy the debt back. If it isnt able to do so, then it should work with the third party to 
achieve the same results as Ive outlined below. 
MoneyBoat should refund all interest, fees and charges paid by Mrs H on loan 1
Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs H from the
date Mrs H originally made her payment, to the date the complaint is settled.
MoneyBoat should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the outstanding 
loan balance on loan 2.
Moneyboat should then rework the account so that Mrs H only has to repay the 
principal borrowed for loan 2. It should treat any repayments made by Mrs H (and the 
third party if applicable) as if it went towards the principal balance.
If and when Mrs H has repaid enough to repay the principal, then any overpayment
should be refunded to her. To this overpayment, 8% simple a year interest should
be added from the date of the overpayment came due to the date of settlement*;
However, if after doing the above, an outstanding principal balance remains, 
MoneyBoat can use the refund due from loan 1 to offset this balance, and if needed it 
should try and come to an affordable arrangement with Mrs H to repay the balance. 
But Id remind MoneyBoat of its obligation to treat her fairly.
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded about these loans from 
Mrs Hs credit file.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat should 
give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax is deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Hs complaint.
 
Evergreen Finance London Limited should put things right for Mrs H as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman