DRN-3673462
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service provided by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). During the 
course of events, Mr A has raised several concerns over a period of time and it has been 
agreed that under this complaint reference at our service the following matters will be 
considered in this decision:
Barclays sent Mr A a replacement debit card to his former address, which was 
intercepted and then used fraudulently to make a payment.
The customer service Mr A received whilst trying to sort out this payment.
The customer service Mr A received when reporting a payment from his account he 
believed was a scam.
Later during the course of his complaint Mr A also raised concerns that these things had 
been going wrong because Barclays was institutionally racist.
What happened
Mr A phoned Barclays in August 2020 after he spotted a payment leaving his current 
account that he didnt recognise and hadnt made. During the call, Mr A learnt that Barclays 
had sent a replacement debit card to a previous address and it was this card that was used 
to make the payment. The payment hadnt yet left Mr As account at the time of his call and 
was pending. Mr A says he was left with the impression that Barclays agreed he hadnt 
made the payment, the payment wouldnt leave his account and the matter had been 
resolved during the call.
Mr A noticed two days later that the payment had left his account and so he called back to 
complain. Mr A was then told that pending payments couldnt be stopped from leaving his 
account but needed to be debited and then a refund given. Mr A was unhappy that he got 
incorrect information and complained to Barclays. He was also unhappy at the trouble he 
was put to whilst trying to sort out the matter, having had calls cut off, calls transferred to 
incorrect departments and calls dealt with unprofessionally. In addition he is concerned that 
Barclays says not all his calls have been recorded. He thinks Barclays should have looked at 
his experience as a whole and not separated it into several complaints.
Barclays agreed its service had fallen short of the standard Mr A reasonably ought to expect. 
In addition to refunding the fraudulent transaction to Mr As account, it paid him £500 to 
compensate for the trouble and distress its actions caused. But Mr A considered Barclays 
investigation into his complaint was inadequate and so he referred the matter to this service.
After referring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Mr A needed to dispute 
another payment leaving his account which he thought was a scam. Mr A was nearing the 
end of his call reporting the problem payment when it cut off. Mr A waited for a call back but 
Barclays did not call. Mr A called back Barclays a week later and learnt that the payment 
dispute wasnt raised following his first call and so he complained. He was quickly offered 
£100 compensation by Barclays for not calling back or progressing the payment dispute. 
Barclays increased the compensation to £200. But Mr A remains unhappy and thinks the 
problems he has faced are a result of institutional discrimination, based on his ethnicity.  
Barclays listened to the calls between Mr A and its agents and having done so, it was 
satisfied that they were handled professionally and did not racially discriminate against him. 
It refutes Mr As allegations of institutional discrimination. So, Mr A asked us to consider this 
final matter together with those he had already brought to the service. Barclays agreed for 
this to be considered by our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr As complaint and explained to Mr A why she didnt think it 
would be fair to say the poor service he received was a result of prejudice. She also thought 
that Barclays took appropriate action following Mr As complaint, including feeding back to its 
agents and paying fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator. As our investigator was unable to resolve things, the 
complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr A is unhappy with the answer hes been given, having looked into 
everything Ive reached the same opinion as our investigator, for much the same reasons. 
I will begin by explaining that the Financial Ombudsman Service is neither a court nor a 
regulator. It would be for the Financial Conduct Authority  which is Barclayss regulator  or 
a court to determine whether or not Barclays is institutionally racist. And whilst we take 
account of the law, we dont decide things in the same way a court would do; the 
overarching principle we are required to follow, pursuant to the provisions of the Financial 
Service and Markets Act 2000, is to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So, to be clear, it would not be for this service to say whether the Equality 
Act 2010 has been breached. 
Mr A has made a number of points when bringing his complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. 
The starting point here is that Barclays has accepted it made mistakes and provided a poor 
service to Mr A  and it has paid Mr A compensation to put things right. So I dont need to 
analyse each and every detail of what happened in order to decide whether or not the bank 
is at fault; Barclays has accepted this. In the circumstances, what I am required to consider 
is whether the compensation the bank has offered is fair, or whether Barclays needs to do 
something more to recognise what went wrong.
Mr As problems began when a payment was due to leave his account which he did not 
recognise. Barclays agreed Mr A did not make the payment and refunded it back to his 
account  so the payment is no longer in dispute. But along the way, Mr A received incorrect 
information, his calls were cut off or transferred to the wrong department. And to add to 
matters, when he had reason to call again and report another payment from his account 
which he believed was a scam, he was again cut off without Barclays logging his report or 
calling back. I dont know the eventual outcome and Mr A hasnt referred it to us  he has 
only told us of the issues with the service he received. So I wont comment further on what 
happened to the second payment that Mr A questioned.
Barclays accepts its overall service for these two matters fell below the standard any of its 
customers should expect from the bank. Ive listened to the calls between Mr A and the 
various people he spoke to at Barclays and I have carefully read the notes Barclays made 
when investigating Mr As concerns. I agree mistakes were made and incorrect information 
was given to Mr A. And so I fully understand how Mr A would find this frustrating and at 
times stressful  I think its reasonable to say that most people would feel the same. But from what Ive reviewed there is nothing that suggests to me Barclays have treated Mr A 
differently to any other customer. 
I accept Barclays cant find recordings of all the calls Mr A made so I cant know for certain 
the content of what was discussed. But on the weight of the evidence I have considered  
including what Mr A has told us about those calls -  I dont find Barclays actions were 
motivated by racial bias, particularly as Mr A hasnt provided details of any specific, 
identifiable incident where he says he was discriminated against. I find it more likely that the 
poor service Barclays gave was due to technical difficulties and human errors that caused 
upset to Mr A. 
Bank staff do make mistakes and, in this case, Mr A was very unlucky that he experienced 
several problems whilst discussing his account. But in all the circumstances of the case, Im 
not persuaded Barclays treated Mr A unfairly due to his race as I think the same technical 
issues and human errors could have potentially happened to any other Barclays customer. If 
Mr A disagrees with me he is free to pursue his claim of racial discrimination against the 
bank in court.
Ive looked at the compensation Barclays has offered Mr A for these mistakes, and Im 
satisfied it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I find the total compensation of £700 
for the distress and inconvenience fair and proportionate to the poor service given and the 
mistakes made by the bank. So, I think the bank has done enough.
Conclusion
I know this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping for. However, after careful consideration of all 
the evidence, Im satisfied that the compensation already paid by Barclays is fair and 
reasonable for the poor service given and mistakes made by the bank when handling Mr As 
account at this time. I will not, therefore, be telling Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman