DRN-3304392
The complaint
Mr K complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans provided him with 
loans that were unaffordable for him. 
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr K with the following loans:
Date taken Principal 
AmountScheduled 
TermMonthly 
repaymentTotal 
repayableDate repaid
Loan 1 18.08.2017 £1000 24 months £72.59 £1742.16 Refinanced 
into loan 2
Loan 2 13.09.2018 £1169.03 18 months £100.13 £1802.34 Settled on 
10.01.2019
Loan 3 21.03.2019 £2000 24 months £151.92 £3646.08 Settled on 
30.06.2021
 
Mr K paid the instalments on loan 1 up until September 2018, when the balance was paid off 
by loan 2. That loan was settled early, and Mr K received a rebate of interest in January 
2019. With regard to loan 3 Mr K made all payments up until April 2020 when due to the 
Covid lockdown, Mr K was unable to work and a three month payment holiday was agreed. 
He resumed payments in June 2020 and settled the loan in full, making the required 
instalments by June 2021.
Mr K complained that the loans were unaffordable. He was self-employed, but Likely Loans 
didnt check his business accounts or his bank statements, if it had it would have seen he 
had a very low income. He says he had to borrow to repay the loans and fell behind with his 
council tax and water bills.
For each loan, Likely Loans checked Mr Ks online application and: 
For income verification it has access to Current Account Turnover (CATO):  Banks, 
building societies and basic bank account providers share current account debit and 
credit data.
For expenditure on loans and credit it utilises a shared database of consumer credit 
history. 
For living costs it uses Office for National Statistics (ONS) data to work out average living 
expenses.
It has provided, for each loan, the data it obtained from those databases, and says it 
assessed for each loan that they were affordable for Mr K.
Mr K has provided bank statements around the time each loan was issued, and copies of his 
statements of account for his business.
Our adjudicator reviewed each loan and said that the checks carried out by Likely Loans 
were proportionate, and he didnt think that any of the loans were lent to him irresponsibly.
Mr K didnt agree and said that if Likely Loans had checked his accounts his income would 
have shown he was unable to afford the loans.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr K 
would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr K would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ks ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that Likely Loans had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loans wouldnt cause Mr K undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr K. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
In Mr Ks case he had quite a low income so the loans would have represented a substantial 
commitment. So Likely Loans should have carried out a thorough assessment in each case.
As regards Mr Ks income, I appreciate from his accounts that he had a low net profit (£650 
for 2017, £430 for 2018). However his income tax credits and benefits will be taken into 
account, and I note from his bank statements that he received income from those sources. 
And Likely Loans assessment confirmed Mr Ks declared income in his applications.
loan 1
Likely Loans satisfied itself from its income verification checks that Mr K had an income of 
around £1,066 a month. Mr K had revolving credit commitments (Credit cards, mail order or 
store cards) of around £28 a month. He had a historic defaulted debt going back over six 
years for which Likely Loans allowed a payment of £45 a month. He had no other loans and 
didnt have any payday loans on his record. It assessed that he had a disposable income of 
around £360 from which he should have been able to afford the loan repayments. I note that 
Mr K made those repayments in full, until he took out loan 2. And considering his bank 
statements I dont think they show any financial difficulties.
loan 2
Mr Ks income was assessed at £1,188 a month. It was a matter of some concern that his 
revolving credit debt had increased to over £3,900. Likely Loans allowed £162 a month for 
those repayments. Apart from the loan provided by Likely Loans, he had no other loans. 
Mr K still had sufficient disposable income (of around £366 a month) to meet the £28 
increase in the loan instalment. Again there was nothing in his bank statements to indicate 
any financial difficulties.
loan 3
Ive noted that Mr K was able to settle loan 2 early without taking out any further loans. His 
monthly income was assessed at £1,075. His revolving credit liability had however increased 
to £4,500. Allowing for £185 for credit repayments and for the new loan Mr Ks disposable 
income was now around £177. Likely Loans could have carried out more detailed checks, 
but I dont think those checks would have revealed any more about Mr Ks financial situation, 
again his bank statements dont show any financial problems. On the face of it hed been 
able to pay the two previous loans without difficulty and though his revolving credit liability 
had increased he still should have been able to meet the repayments for this loan.
I think in respect of all three loans Likely Loans carried out proportionate checks and that 
those checks wouldnt have alerted it to carry out any further checks. I think it made a fair 
lending decision in each case.
Ive noted that Mr K got into difficulty in repaying loan 3, because he wasnt able to work at 
the start of the Covid lockdown. I think Likely Loans acted sympathetically, allowing Mr K a 
three month payment holiday without affecting his credit record.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman