DRN-2411097
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Santander UK Plc in 2003 when it 
advised him to invest £12,000 in a structured product.
What happened
Around April 2003, Mr H was advised by Santander to invest £12,000 in its Safety Plus  
Growth (Issue 11) structured product. It advised he invest £7,000 of this through an ISA and 
the remaining £5,000 in a general investment account for three years. In August 2005 Mr H 
surrendered his investment before the expected minimum term for an overall gain of 
£641.57.
In 2019, Mr H complained about the advice he received. In summary, through his 
representatives, he said he felt the advice was unsuitable because:
He was 37 at the time and had little or no investment experience
At the time he thought the advice was being given in his best interests but now felt 
that not to be the case
The investment had higher costs than other similar investments which would affect 
the returns
The investment wasnt diversified
He wasnt properly informed of the risks
He wasnt told about alternatives
Santander didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said the advice given was suitable as the 
product recommended, when held to term, provided a guaranteed return and the initial sum 
invested and that the costs were set out clearly. 
Initially, Santander also said it thought the complaint had been brought too late. One of our 
Investigators looked at the time limits and concluded Mr H had complained in time for us to 
look at his complaint. Santander agreed. Our Investigator then considered whether 
Santander gave unsuitable advice when making this recommendation to Mr H, and found it 
hadnt. 
She said from the limited information available from the time of sale, this product likely 
wouldve been suitable for someone with Mr Hs level of experience and knowledge. She 
also found that the amount of risk wouldve been suitable based on the limited information 
available. She thought it was likely costs were disclosed and set out, and in any event that 
the charges wouldnt affect the returns as set out in the documentation.
Mr H, through his representatives, didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
matter, restating that Santander hadnt sufficiently diversified Mr Hs investment and that 
Santander was required to provide the information from the time of sale to demonstrate the 
suitability of its advice to Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Santander gave Mr H investment advice, the regulations as they were at the time 
required Santander to make a suitable recommendation having regard to the information 
they had about Mr H  including his personal and financial circumstances. Santander would 
also need to ensure Mr H understood the risks of the investment being recommended. 
Santander hasnt been able to provide the point of sale documentation which would usually 
set out the recommendation made, how it was reached, and the information Mr H gave 
which led to that  such as his objectives, circumstances and risk tolerance. I appreciate Mr 
H and his representatives feel Santander ought to be able to provide everything from the 
sale. But, given how long its been since the advice and how long firms are expected to 
retain this kind of information, I dont think its unreasonable Santander no longer has it. 
It is difficult to know with any certainty what happened when the advice was provided, or 
what Mr Hs circumstances and objectives were at the time, given the lack of 
contemporaneous evidence. Ive therefore had to decide, based on the information I do 
have, what I think is on balance more likely than not to have happened. In order to uphold 
this complaint I need to conclude that the advice Santander gave Mr H was in some way 
unsuitable for him.
Mr Hs argument rests on three main pillars  that the investment wasnt sufficiently 
diversified, that the fees were too high and opaque, and that Santander hasnt documented 
the steps it took in giving its advice.
As Ive said, I dont draw any negative inferences from the lack of point of sale paperwork 
given the amount of time thats passed. And Im also not persuaded the fees involved in this 
investment were such that it made the advice unsuitable, or that Mr H wasnt able to make 
an informed choice about the advice.
I havent seen the exact product literature for the product Mr H invested in. I have however 
seen the brochure for a related product Santander sold at the same time, with a slightly 
longer term. Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr H would have been provided with a 
similar brochure, varied by the details of the term length and the levels of return the product 
provided.
Im satisfied the documentation made it clear what the fees involved were. There was a fee 
paid to Santander for advising and arranging the investment, and another fee to the 
investment manager. These were set out clearly in the document. Further, the nature of this 
product was such that the fees were taken account of in the levels of return (both minimum 
and maximum) that the investment was designed to provide. So Im satisfied Mr H would 
have had a clear idea of the type of return he could expect to receive, net of fees, in order to 
decide if the recommended investment was right for him.
Ive thought carefully about the diversification point. Its true that Santander recommended 
Mr H put his money in just one investment  although Im also mindful that we dont know 
what other money, in what sort of investment or savings vehicle, Mr H had at the time. But the nature of this product was such that it wasnt reliant on the skill of one fund manager, or 
one narrow type of investment or market segment. The level of return was linked to the 
performance of the FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 companies traded on the UK stock 
exchange. 
While the level of return didnt have a linear relationship with the FTSE, ultimately the 
performance of that broad stock market index over the life of the investment was going to 
determine the level of return Mr H received. This was partially offset by the corporate bond 
element of the underlying fund, which provided a minimum expected return of 7.5% over 
three years. 
Overall Im not persuaded the concentration of Mr Hs investment made it an unsuitable one 
for him. He had exposure to the broader FTSE 100 index as well as corporate bonds 
providing a minimum expected return. While it was only one fund, I dont think that alone 
made it an unsuitable place for Santander to recommend he put his money.
Ive also thought more broadly about the advice Santander gave Mr H. As Ive noted, its 
hard to establish exactly what his situation was at the time. But theres not been any 
suggestion he couldnt afford to invest this amount  while he withdrew it early that was to 
buy a car, and Ive not been persuaded this was something Santander ought to have known 
about at the time. Mr H also hasnt said that exposure to the stock market and the prospect 
of better returns is something he wasnt willing to take a risk to achieve. And I note that in 
making his complaint he asked to be compensated based on the return of the FTSE Private 
Investors Income Index  which is an index containing a range of investments, including 
equities, and something our service would broadly say is indicative of someone willing to 
take some risk in order to achieve their objectives.
This investment wasnt risk free, but in most scenarios would provide for Mr H to potentially 
gain a better return than savings account if the stock market did well  in other words, to 
benefit from some exposure to the stock market and the level of return investing in it can 
provide. But the minimum level of expected return meant Mr H was likely to be protected 
from the normal risk of capital loss that an equity based investment would have exposed him 
to, that he would have been exposed to by investing in a more traditional managed equity 
fund, for example.
The principal risks to this minimum return were that the investment company needed to use 
some of the money in the fund to cover other liabilities, or that the counterparties to any of 
the debt instruments the fund invested in defaulted on their obligations. The risk of these 
things transpiring wasnt zero, but Im not persuaded they were likely enough to make this 
investment unsuitably risky for Mr H.
Overall, the investment allowed Mr H to potentially make a return greater than savings 
accounts, with a level of assurance that hed at least make some positive return over the life 
of the investment. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that wasnt a suitable investment 
for him to make, given all the circumstances. Im also satisfied that Santander most likely 
provided information about the investment which was clear enough to allow Mr H to make an 
informed decision about whether the risk and return offered by this product was something 
he wanted to accept.
It follows that I dont find Santander unfairly or unreasonably recommended this investment 
to Mr H, and dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman