DRN-2965866
The complaint
Mr V has complained that he did not receive support under his home emergency policy and 
about the general service he received from AWP P&C SA (AWP).
  
What happened
Mr Vs heating and hot water system failed on May 2020 and he tried to engage his home 
emergency policy. AWP informed Mr V that he wasnt covered for the system failure due to 
the issue being caused by an electrical fault as his property suffered from a power outage at 
the same time. 
Mr V then engaged the services of a tradesman to carry our repairs and restore his hot water 
and heating supply. These services were paid for in kind by exchange of services as Mr V 
was not working at the time due to the covid pandemic.
Mr V complained to AWP about its lack of engagement but didnt feel hed received a full 
explanation or an investigation into his concerns. Mr V therefore brought the matter to this 
service for further consideration.
Initially our investigator  thought there had been service failings by AWP and she 
recommended that AWP pay Mr V compensation of £125. The investigator reversed this 
finding following receipt of further information from AWP, however this related to a previous 
claim. She finally reinstated the original recommendation for AWP to pay Mr V £125 in 
compensation.
Mr V thought that £125 wasnt sufficient to ensure change of processes in future. He thought 
that AWP had been responsible for considerable delays in responding and had not been 
forthcoming with information requested. In the circumstances the matter has been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, AWP has provided very little information in order to consider this complaint, 
however Im required to reach a conclusion on the balance of probabilities based on the 
available evidence.
The starting point for me is the AWP home insurance policy terms and conditions.
I note that the policy covers the primary heating system as follows: - the main heating 
system in your homeThis includes both the central heating and/or hot water systems. 
The policy goes on to state that;  we will make reasonable attempts to find a suitable 
tradesperson. In the general exclusions section of the policy it states; Claims arising from 
the interruption, failure or disconnection of public services to your home (including electricity, 
water or gas supply), however they are caused.
Mr V states that he did suffer loss of power to the majority of the house, but not a total loss 
of power, as one light bulb and one socket in the utility room remained working. He said that 
this would evidence that a supply was still coming into the property and the fault lay within 
the property so that this was not a supply issue. He says its hard to see how the advisor 
could determine the cause of the fault over the phone. Mr V also states that despite several 
requests he didnt receive information requested from AWP. 
Im satisfied that Mr V made two calls to AWP on the date of the home emergency and that 
this didnt result in AWP sending an engineer to review the fault.
Im satisfied that the failure of the central heating system was covered in principle by AWPs 
home emergency policy. In the absence of contrary evidence from AWP Im satisfied that it 
would have been fair and reasonable for Mr V to expect that AWP would send out an 
engineer to review the fault. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im also not satisfied that the above exclusion applies, as 
there is no evidence that supply to the home (as opposed to within the home) had been 
interrupted or that the central heating failure arose as a result of any power supply issue.
As Mr V paid for the services of his own tradesperson by services in kind and there is no 
quote or indication of costs incurred, Im not satisfied that AWP should pay an amount 
towards the repair. I agree with the investigator however that the sum of £125 would be fair 
compensation to Mr V for both poor service by AWP and the impact of being without hot 
water and heating.
Its disappointing that AWP has not co-operated with this service in bringing this matter to a 
close, however I think that the level of compensation set by the investigator was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Vs complaint and require AWP P&C SA;
- to pay compensation to Mr V in the sum of £125 within 28 days of his acceptance of this 
Final Decision.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman