DRN-1594871
 
The complaint
Mr K says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) failed to correctly assess the 
sustainability and affordability of his loan applications.
What happened
 Mr K took four loans from Uncle Buck between December 2016 and September 2017. A 
summary of the lending is shown below:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 09/12/2016 28/02/2017 3 £250.00 £117.60
2 24/03/2017 28/06/2017 3 £500.00 £259.75
3 28/06/2017 28/09/2017 3 £300.00 £151.29
4 30/09/2017 05/01/2018 3 £150.00 £72.94
 
Our adjudicator recommended Mr Ks complaint be upheld from loan 1 onwards. She found 
that Uncle Bucks own checks showed Mr K was having problems managing his money. She 
recommended Uncle Buck refund the interest and charges that Mr K paid from loan 1 
onwards and remove any adverse information about the loans from his credit file.
Uncle Buck agreed in part. It accepted that loans 1 and 4 shouldn't have been given to Mr K 
because it could see from its own credit searches that Mr K had three other short-term loans 
outstanding at the time. But it felt that as the number of outstanding short-term loans 
reduced to two or less when loans 2 and 3 were taken, these loans shouldn't be upheld. Mr 
K did not accept Uncle Bucks offer.
As the case could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about short term lending on our website and Ive 
used this approach to help me decide Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint for the same reasons as the adjudicator. As Uncle Buck has 
accepted the adjudicator's view regarding loans 1 and 4, my decision will focus on loans 2 
and 3.The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Uncle Buck lent to Mr K. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as Uncle Buck. 
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability 
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to the particulars of the lending 
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle Buck should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
Uncle Buck was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. Uncle Buck told us that, when lending, it asked Mr K for his income and expenses as well as 
carrying out some credit searches. 
Whilst I think the checks Uncle Buck did were proportionate for the second loan, the 
information Uncle Buck obtained indicated Mr K was having problems managing his money.
Looking at the results of the credit checks Uncle Buck carried out before agreeing loan 2, the 
high number of accounts with outstanding balances should have caused Uncle Buck some 
concerns. I can see on the checks that, in addition to the two short term loans Uncle Buck 
acknowledges were outstanding, there were several active unsecured loan accounts with 
repayments to be made over a number of months. The sums and repayment periods 
involved (generally between 3 and 10 months) suggest to me these were likely to be high 
cost short term lending. But, in any event, I think the large number of outstanding loans 
shown on Mr Ks credit check should have been sufficient to have prompted Uncle Buck to 
gather some information from Mr K - specifically to ask him about his other short-term loans. 
From the information Mr K has provided, I can see he was using at least five other short-
term lenders at this time. So, he was already committed to repaying these loans around the 
same time as hed be repaying Loan 2. I think that the extent of Mr Ks other short-term 
borrowing should have put Uncle Buck on notice that he was having serious problems 
managing his money. So, knowing this, Uncle Buck would have realised Mr K would be 
unlikely to sustainably meet the repayments for loan 2 to Mr K and it wouldn't have agreed to 
lend.
Looking at the credit searches Uncle Buck carried out before it agreed loan 3, again, Mr K 
had multiple unsecured loan accounts with outstanding balances. The sums and repayment 
periods involved (3 to 10 months) suggest to me many of these were high cost short term 
credit. This should have prompted Uncle Buck to specifically ask Mr Ks about any other 
outstanding short-term lending he had. If had done so, it would have discovered Mr K, again, 
had multiple outstanding short-term loans at the time loan 3 was agreed. As a responsible 
lender, I think Uncle Buck would have seen that Mr K was having problems managing his 
money and wouldn't be able to sustainably repay loans 3 either.
So I am upholding Mr K's complaint about loans 2 and 3 as well as loans 1 and 4.
Putting things right
I dont think Uncle Buck should have provided loans 1-4. In order to put things right Uncle 
Buck should: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr K towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans. 
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr K which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled. 
C) Pay Mr K the total of A plus B. 
D) Remove any adverse information Uncle Buck has recorded on Mr Ks credit file in relation 
to loans 1-4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle Buck 
should give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint as Ive explained above and I require 
Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) to put things right for Mr K as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2020.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman