DRN-2604717
The complaint
 Mrs Cs complaint is about the management and investment of her Self Invested Personal 
Pension (the SIPP). She says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays), under its Wealth 
Management function, undertook the role as her investment manager for the SIPP in June 
2017 but failed to invest it since then, contrary to her agreement with the relevant Wealth 
Management Executive (WME) that it should be invested with a moderate risk profile.
What happened
 Mrs C says she sought to make a withdrawal from the SIPP around August 2019, which 
was when she learnt that it was uninvested and had remained in cash since 2017. She 
complained to Barclays thereafter.
Barclays disputes the complaint. In the main, it says:
It did not advise Mrs C on the switch of her defined benefits pension to the SIPP in 
2017, a third party did that. 
She met with the relevant WME after the SIPP was settled and he went only as far as 
making preliminary enquiries about her and her SIPP, her on-boarding was never 
completed and neither the WME nor Barclays ever undertook responsibility as 
investment manager for the SIPP.
She would have been in receipt of regular statements for the SIPP, from when it was 
set up and thereafter, so she would (or should) have known that it was uninvested 
and unmanaged.
There is no evidence to show that Mrs C was/is a Barclays client in terms of her SIPP 
 and she would have been aware of this at all relevant times because she never 
received any client related documents or undertakings from Barclays and she never 
transferred the SIPPs funds to Barclays management  so Barclays holds no 
responsibility associated with the SIPP.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and disagreed with Barclays position. She 
considered that the complaint should be upheld, despite the limited documentary evidence of 
what happened between Mrs C and the WME. Her main concluding findings were as follows:
Mrs C has explained the specific personal circumstances that meant she did not 
receive the statements for the SIPP and was not aware of the state of the SIPP prior 
to her withdrawal attempt in 2019.
There is meeting note evidence showing that the WME was aware of Mrs Cs 
personal circumstances in June 2017, that he had met with her with regards to her 
need for management of her SIPP and that she wanted this done with a moderate 
risk profile.
There is also email evidence showing that the WME contacted Mrs C in January 
2018, that prior to then he had not met with her since July 2017 and that he proposed 
another meeting at the time to finalise arrangements for the SIPP. In response,     
Mrs C said she believed the arrangements had been all done. The WME then 
explained, in his February 2018 reply, that the switch to the SIPP had been 
completed but only cash was held within it and he proposed a meeting to chat things 
through. Mrs Cs evidence is that she then met with the WME in the same month. 
There is no meeting note evidence of this [but the investigator was satisfied that the 
meeting happened and that Mrs C signed documents  evidence of which is also 
unavailable  during the meeting pursuant to onboarding her as a Barclays client].
Overall, evidence shows that Mrs C was led to expect that Barclays would manage 
her SIPP after the February 2018 meeting, that it did not tell her that she had been 
declined as a client (or would not be onboarded), that the WME had not kept her 
informed thereafter and that he had failed to manage her expectations. She should 
be compensated, by Barclays, for the SIPPs lost investment opportunity from 
February 2018 until August 2019 and Barclays should pay her £200 for the trouble 
and upset the matter has caused her.
Barclays disagreed with this outcome and it re-stated its core arguments (as summarised 
above). It also added that it disputes that a meeting between the parties took place in 
February 2018, given the absence of evidence that it happened; that whilst Mrs C told the 
SIPP provider Barclays was her investment manager, the SIPP provider has said this was 
never confirmed; after the meeting between the parties in June 2017 the relevant notes say 
the matter was to be progressed in a subsequent meeting, but no such subsequent meeting 
took place; and whilst it is open to the idea of a small payment for trouble and upset 
(because it cannot evidence that it declined her business at the time) it cannot fairly be 
responsible for her claim for lost investment opportunity. Barclays asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Barclays position in this complaint. It holds, strongly, the view that it cannot 
reasonably be responsible for the management (or lack thereof) of Mrs Cs SIPP because it 
never undertook such management. In any other case, with the same issue and depending 
on the facts, this could be a successful argument. However, in the present case I do not 
consider that it is enough to disclaim Barclays liability for what happened to Mrs Cs SIPP. I 
agree with the investigators concluding view and, on the balance of available evidence, I 
uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
There is no evidence that Barclays formally confirmed the management of Mrs Cs SIPP. 
Mrs Cs claim is that she was led to believe that it had undertaken such management, in 
2017 and in 2018. My first observation is that the SIPP provider also appears to have shared 
(wholly or partly) the same belief. I refer to the following: 
The SIPP providers email to Mrs Cs third-party adviser on 12 June 2017 to confirm 
that the SIPP had been set up on that date.
Shortly thereafter, on 14 June 2017, the SIPP provider wrote to Barclays, it quoted 
Mrs Cs name and SIPP account number, and it said  I can confirm we have 
received a request to establish a Barclays Wealth account for the above plan. We 
look forward to receiving your account opening documentation in due course. 
Barclays replied on the next day and asked for client information in order trace the 
Banker attached to Mrs C. The SIPP provider provided that information on the same 
date.
On 17 October 2017 the SIPP provider wrote again to Barclays, quoted Mrs Cs 
name and SIPP account number, and said  Please can you provide an update on 
the below and when we can expect to receive he [sic] account opening documentation? On the next day an internal email within Barclays, copied to the 
SIPP provider, forwarded this enquiry to the WME Mrs C had met with and asked him 
to address it. There is no available evidence of his response or that he responded.
On 5 January 2018 the SIPP provider wrote to Barclays (copied to the WME), quoted 
Mrs Cs name and SIPP account number, and chased further  in response to which, 
on 8 January 2018, Barclays said it had  emailed the clients [sic] WME for an 
update . The SIPP provider chased again, without copying the WME, on 28 
August 2018 and on 12 September 2018. 
Barclays wrote to the SIPP provider on 29 August 2018 and on 13 September 2018. 
The first addressed a number of the SIPP providers enquiries, including about an 
enquiry about Mrs C, and the second (which also referred to the first) addressed only 
the enquiry about Mrs C. The second said  I have asked one of our Wealth 
Manager Executives and he doesnt believe that this case is going ahead. He 
believes that it was an inquiry made by [the relevant WME] before he left Barclays. 
[The relevant WME left Barclays around the middle of 2018.]
The above stands in support of what Mrs C says she believed and expected at the relevant 
times  that the WME had undertaken to arrange management of her SIPP. From June 2017 
the SIPP provider treated Barclays as her nominated investment manager and it repeatedly 
sought to open an account for Barclays, in relation to the SIPP, in this respect. By January 
2018 Barclays even referred to the WME as the clients WME [the apostrophe being my 
correction of what was clearly a typo].  
This continued into late 2018, with the correspondence in August and September that year 
and at no point before late August/early September did Barclays distance itself from the 
matter. It is also fair to observe that even its response on 13 September 2018 arguably fell 
slightly short of a definitive reply  given that it referred to no more than a belief that Mrs Cs 
account was not going ahead.
A reasonable conclusion, from the above, is that between June 2017 and August/September 
2018 Mrs C and the SIPP provider shared the expectation that the WME was to arrange 
management of the SIPP; and that Barclays behaved in a manner that suggested this was 
indeed the case, until it stated otherwise. There is no evidence that Barclays message to the 
SIPP provider on 13 September 2018 was shared with or subsequently conveyed to Mrs C 
by either Barclays or the SIPP provider. Therefore, the implication is that her expectation 
remained uninterrupted up to her withdrawal attempt in late 2019.
Barclays disputes this and says she would have known no such management was taking 
place through her SIPP statements and through her knowledge that she had neither 
received nor processed paperwork relevant to, and required for, the transfer of funds and of 
authority to Barclays in order for it to manage the SIPP. Given the facts, I am not persuaded 
by this argument.
This decision will be published, so I will not breach Mrs Cs right to confidentiality by detailing 
the personal circumstances she has referred to as an explanation for not receiving the SIPP 
statements. Barclays is aware of those circumstances. On balance, I accept that Mrs C did 
not receive the SIPP statements for the reasons she has given. The same core reason is 
noted within the WMEs meeting notes from June 2017. I have not seen evidence to 
conclude that her account of the circumstances is unreliable.
With regards to Barclays point about paperwork, I consider two elements to be important. 
First, I share the investigators view that Mrs C met the WME in February 2018, for the same 
reasons given by the investigator. On balance, I also accept that Mrs C signed paperwork during the meeting as she claims to have done. 
The correspondence between the parties between January and February 2018 is consistent 
with the notion of the meeting being held afterwards and with the notion of paperwork related 
to management of the SIPP being signed at that meeting. The contents of his January 2018 
email show that the WME was clearly apologetic for his inaction in the SIPP matter since 
July 2017, which is when he said he had last met Mrs C. He proposed a meeting in aid of 
repairing the state of affairs and progressing it, and available evidence goes as far as       
Mrs Cs email of 5 February 2018 in which she agreed to the WMEs suggestion of a 
meeting the following Friday. I accept that no evidence of meeting notes exists in this 
respect, but that does not automatically mean a meeting did not happen. As I have 
summarised, there is more weight in the evidence suggesting that a meeting happened. 
Having done nothing since July 2017, as the WME essentially conceded, it is also plausible 
that there would have been mutual desire and effort, between both parties, to put in place 
documentation related to the management of the SIPP during the February 2018 meeting. 
The absence of any email from the WME to Mrs C after February 2018  to either notify that 
Barclays had declined her business or, in the alternative, to pursue completion of the 
arrangement  suggests that Barclays never issued her with a decision that her business 
had been declined and that it needed nothing further from her to complete the arrangement. 
As such, whilst I agree with Barclays that no paperwork is presently available, that does not 
automatically mean paperwork was not signed by Mrs C  and, for the above reasons, I 
consider it more likely (than not) that this was done. 
The second element I have considered is evidence that Mrs Cs arrangement with the WME 
was for discretionary management of the SIPP. The SIPP documentation refers to this. In 
this context, she would not have been expected to closely monitor what the WME or 
Barclays did thereafter. Added to my finding that she did not receive the SIPP statements, I 
do not consider that she ought reasonably to have pursued or received information about the 
SIPP being unmanaged and being held in cash, until she did in 2019.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I consider that it was reasonable for 
Mrs C to have believed and expected that Barclays had undertaken the management of her 
SIPP from February 2018 onwards and to have relied on that being the case  until she 
learnt otherwise in 2019; and I do not consider that she ought reasonably to have known 
otherwise earlier than she did. The consequence she has incurred is that her SIPP was 
unmanaged and uninvested throughout a period in which she reasonably believed that it was 
both managed and invested by Barclays. 
The case is not about determining Barclays conduct of an undisputed investment 
management service, it is about Barclays leading Mrs C to believe it was providing her with 
such a service when it was not. I consider that she still stands, reasonably so, to be 
compensated for lost investment opportunity in this context. But for being misled to believe 
her SIPP was being managed by Barclays, it is probable that she would have arranged 
alternative management (and investment) elsewhere, in line with the moderate risk profile 
that she instructed to the WME. Whether intentionally or negligently, the balance of evidence 
shows that the WME (and Barclays) misled her in this respect, so Barclays is responsible for 
the resulting loss of investment opportunity. I also agree with the investigators view that 
Barclays should pay Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset the matter has clearly caused her.
Putting things right
Fair compensationMy aim is to put Mrs C as close as possible to the position she would now be in if her SIPP 
had been managed and suitably invested when she was led to believe it would be managed 
and invested. It is not possible to say precisely how the SIPP would have been suitably 
invested, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given her 
circumstances at the time.
Mrs C is ordered to engage meaningfully and co-operatively with Barclays to provide it with 
all information and documentation, relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not 
already have.
The dates in my redress order differ slightly from those in the investigators view, but I 
consider this to be a broadly inconsequential difference. Based on Mrs Cs email to the WME 
of 5 February 2018 I consider it more likely (than not) that her meeting with him happened on 
the following Friday (9 February 2018) as proposed in the email. I consider that the WME 
ought reasonably to have invested the SIPP within a week thereafter  given that it was a 
matter than had been under consideration since June 2017  so I consider that the start date 
for the calculation of redress should be 16 February 2018 (a week after 9 February 2018). 
There is evidence that Mrs Cs lump sum withdrawal from the SIPP happened on 1 August 
2019. Redress applies to the SIPP in its full state up to when the lump sum withdrawal event 
disclosed to her that it had been uninvested. I consider that the end date for the calculation 
of redress should be just before the withdrawal and should be 31 July 2019.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mrs C fairly, Barclays must do the following:
Compare the performance of Mrs Cs SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value the difference must be paid to her in 
compensation. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any interest set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If 
Barclays is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest, it must tell Mrs C the deduction amount and give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, for her to reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Pay the compensation into Mrs Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the 
compensation (and interest) cannot be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly to 
her. Had it been possible to pay it into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income, so the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age. For example, if she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. If 
she would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Mrs C £200 for the trouble and upset caused to her.
Provide the calculation of the compensation to Mrs C in a clear and simple format. investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to     
(end date)additional 
interest
Mrs Cs
SIPPstill 
existsFor half the investment: 
FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market 
Income Total Return 
Index); for the other half: 
the Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bonds 16 
February 
201831
July 
2019not applicable
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Barclays should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations 
simpler, I will accept if Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end 
instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Mrs C instructed a moderate risk profile for her SIPP.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It is a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that Mrs Cs moderate profile was in between both benchmarks, in the 
sense that she was prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her objective. The 
50/50 combination above would reasonably put her into that position and it broadly 
reflects the sort of return she could have obtained from pension investments suited to 
her profile.
I do not consider that interest applies after the end date because Mrs C was aware of 
the state of the SIPP after the end date and was responsible for mitigating her 
position at the time.compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint, I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay her compensation as set out above and to provide her with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman