DRN-3121790
The complaint
Mr W complains about the fee MyClaimSolved Ltd (MCS) charged him for representing him 
in a complaint involving a pension transfer.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr W instructed MCS to represent him in a claim against a bank for advice 
it provided regarding the transfer of a pension.
 
In May 2021, Mr W made a complaint to MCS. He said he didnt think MCS deserved to be 
paid a fee. He said MCS hadnt done anything towards his claim since January 2020. He 
said he had done all the phone calls, letter writing and form filling for over fifteen months. All 
MCS had done was send a few emails to him and the bank. 
In June 2021, the bank upheld Mr Ws complaint about the pension transfer advice and 
made a settlement offer of around £325,000. This was followed by an invoice from MCS for 
its fee of around £146,000 (including VAT).
In the meantime, MCS sent Mr W its final response to his complaint. It said its fee was fully 
and properly explained at the outset. The bank had upheld the claim as a result of MCSs 
original letter of complaint. MCS said its charges were justly due.
Mr W remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked 
into his concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
that MCS had made Mr W aware of its fees and he had agreed to them. She was also 
satisfied that MCS didnt advise Mr W to pursue the claim himself. She said she could see 
that MCS had been in contact with the bank and had sent Mr W regular updates. She was 
satisfied the successful offer was as a result of MCSs work and the fee was due.
Mr W disagreed with our investigators view. He felt MCS didnt deserve the fee because he 
did all the work on the claim. He said he had to agree to deal with the bank directly because 
MCS said it was working from home. He asked that we contact the case handler at the bank 
directly. He said the case handler agreed MCS didnt deserve its fee and would tell us Mr W 
did all the work on the claim. So, his complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mr W engaged MCSs services he signed a document agreeing to its terms and 
conditions. This included agreeing to pay its fee of 45% (including VAT) of the compensation 
due to him for a successful claim. 
Mr W doesnt dispute agreeing to MCSs fee. But he feels strongly that MCS isnt entitled to 
it because he believes he was left to do most of the work towards the claim himself.
  
Mr W says that MCS told him he would need to handle the claim himself because of the 
pandemic. MCS says this isnt correct. MCSs records show that a case handler from the 
bank contacted MCS in March 2020 and said she was working from home because of the 
pandemic and was unable to access the letter of authority MCS had sent. She asked for    
Mr Ws phone number so she could contact him directly to verify his details.
 
MCS phoned Mr W the next day and asked permission to share his contact details with the 
bank. MCS told Mr W that the bank wanted to check his personal facts, but they might ask 
further questions. MCS warned Mr W to be careful about answering these because he might 
innocently jeopardise his case. It advised Mr W to refer the bank back to MCS if there were 
questions he didnt wish to answer. 
Having listened to this call, Im satisfied that MCS made it clear to Mr W that it was still 
handling his claim for him. The reason it was asking for permission to pass on his contact 
details to the bank was so that he could verify his details with them. I think it was reasonable 
for MCS to have done this so as not to delay Mr Ws claim.
Mr W has also raised concerns about a lack of contact from MCS. In early 2021, Mr W told 
MCS that he hadnt heard from it for a year. He said the claim had moved forward because 
of his contact with the bank and he didnt intend to pay a penny to MCS.  But I can see that 
several update emails were sent to Mr W (in July, October and December 2020). These 
were sent to the same email address Mr W provided to our service and weve successfully 
contacted him on. In the update emails, MCS said that if Mr W received anything from the 
provider or had any questions, he should contact MCS. 
I can also see that MCS contacted the bank several times to ask for updates on his case. 
This is confirmed by a letter the bank sent to Mr W. So, Im satisfied that MCS continued to 
pursue the claim for Mr W and kept him updated on progress. It also made it clear that Mr W 
should contact MCS (rather than the bank directly) if he needed further information about his 
claim.
Mr W has asked our service to get in touch with the case handler at the bank. He says he 
would confirm that Mr W did all the work on the claim (phone calls, letter writing, form filling 
etc). I dont doubt that Mr W was in direct contact with the bank, but it appears to have been 
his choice to do so. Ive explained why Im satisfied that MCS made it clear to Mr W that it 
was handling his complaint and any queries should be directed to MCS. So further 
information from the banks case handler wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr W, who was required to pay a significant 
amount of money, but MCS made it clear that the agreement was on a no win, no fee 
basis. This meant that the fees didnt need to reflect the amount of work or time MCS spent 
on his case. If the claim had been unsuccessful, Mr W wouldnt have been required to pay 
anything. I appreciate this is upsetting for Mr W, who feels hes lost out on a large amount of 
his pension money. But he agreed to MCSs terms and conditions when he instructed it to 
represent him in his claim. And Im not persuaded MCS told Mr W to pursue it directly with 
the bank or stopped acting on his behalf. So, Im satisfied that MCS is entitled to its success 
fee.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman