DRN-3745957
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about her car insurer Verex Insurance Services Limited because her 
monthly premium payment kept changing and charges kept being added.
What happened
Mrs M had a policy with Verex which renewed in May 2021, with Mrs M paying a monthly 
premium of £47.40. But in September the monthly amount changed, and continued to 
change over the coming months. Mrs M missed some payments and also changed some 
details on the policy which resulted in some charges being applied. Often any additional 
costs were spread over the remaining months of cover. 
Eventually, in March and April 2022, Verex said there were three sums/payments left for 
Mrs M to make. Those were for£109.04 each and were to be taken in early April, May and 
June. But Mrs M didnt understand why she was being asked to pay these sums. A payment 
for April was returned by Mrs Ms bank unpaid, and when it was recalled for on 
11 April 2022, that payment was also unsuccessful. 
Verex decided to forego collecting the arrears from February and March 2022  which meant 
it wouldnt need to take Junes payment at all and the remaining two payments (that overdue 
for April and the one due in May) would reduce to £81.78. It tried to take both payments in 
May, but they were both unsuccessful. 
Mrs M cancelled the policy because she felt she wasnt being given clear information about 
the payments Verex wanted. Verex said it would waive the cancellation fee of £45.00, but 
Mrs M still owed it £163.56 (for Aprils and Mays payments). It noted she had incurred a 
bank charge of £30.00 and said it would reimburse this to her once she had paid the 
outstanding amount to it. Mrs M complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Mrs M had been given clear information by Verex each time the 
premium amount changed including in letters and emails sent in March 2022. He noted there 
had been a communication issue at one point. And that there had been some problems with 
payments being asked for/taken. But he noted that Verex had waived payments, as well as 
agreeing to reimburse Mrs Ms bank charge. He felt that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So he didnt think it needed to do anything more.  
Mrs M was unhappy. She asked for an Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see, from Mrs Ms perspective, how it became difficult for her to keep up with the 
changing payment amounts. But I bear in mind that Verex did tell her each time the sum was 
changing. And the change came about because Mrs M and Verex had agreed to split 
additional, or overdue, costs and charges over the payments that remained to be taken for 
the policy term. In addition to this, in spring 2022, a further payment was initially added for 
June to help spread the cost.
After the policy renewed in May 2021, Mrs M changed her address once and her car twice. 
Each time she incurred a £25 charge, which, each time was spread over the remainder of 
the policy period. The same happened with an increase in premium caused by one of the 
vehicle changes. Mrs M then missed a couple of payments in November and 
December 2021. Whilst one payment was corrected in December, the other was spread over 
the remainder of the term. Ive checked the sums which were applied, which increased the 
monthly payments, and Im satisfied that, in applying them, Verex acted fairly, reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms. 
But it is fair to say that, in early 2022, Verex wasnt entirely clear with Mrs M when she told it 
she had concerns about the changing payments. Verex responded clearly, in my view, in 
later communication on the subject. But initially it didnt and with Mrs M already feeling 
confused and uncertain, that wont have helped her. And there were then some payment 
issues caused by Verex changing its payment system  it sought to take incorrect amounts 
from Mrs M. Again I can understand Mrs M being frustrated by this added confusion. 
Verex though, as noted above, has waived certain sums. And its agreed to reimburse 
Mrs Ms bank charge, once she pays it the outstanding amount owed. I think that all amounts 
to fair and reasonable redress in the circumstances here.
My final decision
I dont make any award against Verex Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman