DRN-3142087
The complaint
Miss C complains that Aviva Insurance Limited have damaged her floorboards and failed to 
rectify a defect with her extension.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Having reviewed the notes of the repairs carried out to Miss Cs property, there is 
nothing to suggest that the engineers caused any damaged Miss Cs floorboards, and 
neither have I seen any independent report to suggest this was likely the case either. 
Therefore, I see no fair and reasonable basis in which Aviva or their intermediaries can 
be held responsible for the damage Miss C has noticed to her floorboards. 
I understand that Miss C is unhappy that Aviva failed to address the fact that her 
extension did not have any air vents, which is against current building regulations. But 
Aviva are only obliged to respond to the damage caused by the insured event (in this 
instance, the storm that damaged the chimney/roof). It is not their role to assess whether 
Miss Cs extension was built according to existing building codes, and neither would they 
be under any obligation to rectify any defects that have not been caused by an insured 
event, as this would result in betterment, which the policy is not intended to provide. 
Without any further independent evidence to suggest otherwise, Im not persuaded that 
Aviva have caused any further damage to Miss Cs property. And neither have they ignored 
the defects that Miss C has raised with regards to her lack of air vents, as there is nothing to 
suggest this is either linked to the insured event or had been caused by any defective 
workmanship on the part of the engineers that visited the property.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Miss C, but I will not be asking Aviva to 
take any further action, as I dont think theyve done anything wrong in these circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman
