DRN-4055910
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Buryfield Grange Limited (Buryfield) 
to transfer the benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme he held 
with a former employer to a personal pension arrangement (PP).
What happened
Mr W had two preserved final salary pensions and, in May 2007, Mr W was referred to 
Buryfield for advice on these by his ongoing financial adviser. The referral letter said Mr W 
wanted to buy a house, but his income and outstanding loans made the amount he wanted 
to borrow and the repayments high. So it said Mr W was interested in accessing his 
pensions and that he thought an adviser might be able to do this more quickly, having been 
told by one of his DB schemes that this could take a few months. And that the money would 
be used to clear loans rather than for a deposit, to help clear the way for a house purchase.  
On 22 May 2007, a questionnaire was completed to gather information about Mr Ws 
circumstances and objectives, including an assessment of his attitude to risk. It was noted 
that Mr W was aged 50, employed and divorced but living with a partner, with no dependent 
children. And that Mr W wanted to take maximum tax-free cash (TFC) to use as a deposit on 
a house, as he didnt have any other funds and didnt want further borrowing. 
Mr W went on to say on the questionnaire that his DB schemes represented a significant 
proportion of his pension (50-75%), which should be protected as far as reasonably possible. 
He also selected that spousal benefits are most important to him, but that he wanted the 
maximum lump sum possible and anticipated drawing benefits early so was happy to accept 
a lower pension, albeit he didnt want to risk too much of his capital. Mr W said he had 
minimal investment knowledge and no significant savings outside of his pension. And 
Buryfield deemed Mr W to have a moderate attitude to risk. 
In early June 2007, Buryfield established Mr W didnt have the right to transfer one of his DB 
schemes (which Ill refer to as his remaining scheme) or to take benefits from this until he 
was aged 60. So it provided Mr W with advice on his options for his second DB scheme, 
which was projected to pay a yearly pension of £3,556.26 from his normal retirement age of 
60, although he could commute some of this for a lump sum, which at the date of leaving 
was calculated as £11,737.11. And if Mr W wanted to retire from this early at aged 50 or 
over then hed receive a reduced pension and lump sum. 
Later that month, Buryfield advised Mr W to transfer his DB pension benefits into a PP. The 
suitability report said that if Mr W just wanted to access maximum TFC without drawing an 
income this then this meant the option available which best fulfilled his requirements was to 
transfer his benefits in his DB scheme to a PP. Mr W accepted Buryfields advice, so his DB 
scheme benefits were transferred to a PP shortly after, for a transfer value of £55,978.52 
and he went on to take maximum TFC of £13,994.63. 
In July 2009, Mr Ws ongoing financial adviser took back over from Buryfield. And, in 
October 2009, Mr W began to draw an income from his PP, which was paid into a second 
PP that was set up to receive the income. 
In 2010, Mr W emailed his ongoing adviser, concerned about how much he could expect 
from his pensions and to find out about any lump sums he could take from these. He sent his 
adviser benefits information hed obtained from his remaining DB scheme and said he was 
happy with these but wanted it explained in laymans terms. 
In 2011, Mr W told his ongoing adviser he was finding it difficult to balance the books and 
looking at ways to reduce his outgoings, including stopping making contributions to his 
second PP. And, in response, he was told he was paying these from the income drawn down 
from his first PP to build up a pot from which he could take TFC upon turning 55. And Mr W 
clarified he wanted this income to be paid directly to him instead to help with finances.
In July 2012, Mr W combined his two PPs and purchased an annuity giving him a yearly 
income of £1,764.24. And, in 2017, Mr W started taking his benefits from his remaining DB 
scheme. 
In December 2021, Mr W complained to Buryfield that its transfer advice was negligent and 
caused him a loss. Mr W said he was induced to transfer for control and flexibility, but the 
critical yield was high and he had no investment experience and a low capacity for loss.     
Mr W said hed stated that his spousal benefits under the DB scheme were more important 
to him, so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer. And that Buryfield ought to have 
explored alternatives, such as a loan or re-financing and what this would have cost 
compared to what hed lose by transferring from his DB scheme. 
Buryfield sent Mr W its final response letter. It said, in summary, that Mr W referred to it to 
see if it could access his benefits in his DB schemes quicker. It said its starting point was 
that the transfer wasnt suitable, but as Mr W had numerous loans he wanted to repay to buy 
a property this made it suitable. It said that if the transaction had been done in isolation it 
would have agreed the critical yield was too high. But it was part of future planning and the 
housing market was strong at the time, so would lead to benefits worth more than his DB 
scheme. And that Mr W signed to confirm he was happy to accept the risk his pension could 
be lower as a result of transferring to draw benefits early. 
In February 2022, Mr W brought his complaint to our Service. And Buryfield said it has been 
made too late. It said Mr W complained more than six years after the advice and that he 
knew the benefits were a significant part of his retirement provision in 2007. It also said      
Mr W went on to regularly review his pensions with his ongoing adviser, including drawing an 
income from his PP, requesting to take lump sums and buying an annuity. Buryfield said 
that, in 2010, Mr W enquired about accessing his benefits in his remaining DB scheme and 
sought information about it. And that Mr W would have understood when he was able to take 
benefits from this in 2017 that this type of scheme provides a guaranteed pension to know 
hed given up similar benefits in 2007. 
Mr W said he didnt become aware he had cause to complaint until September 2021, when 
informed of this by his representative. And that, as he doesnt have knowledge of pensions 
or the death benefits and guarantees attached to a DB scheme, he had no idea hed been 
given negligent advice. Mr W said the annual reviews didnt explain the benefits hed lost. He 
said he wasnt receiving PP statements for a while as hed moved house. And that, in any 
case, these only show the amount he receives rather than what hes lost out on. And he had 
no reason to connect these with the loss hes incurred as a result of the transfer advice. 
One of our Investigators said Mr Ws complaint had been made in time, so our Service can 
consider it. He also said the transfer wasnt financially viable. And that Buryfield hadnt 
shown it fully explored Mr Ws circumstances, needs and aims, or that it had considered 
alternatives. He said if Buryfield had advised Mr W against the transfer then its likely hed have listened to its expert advice and remained in his DB scheme. And that it should pay   
Mr W £300 compensation to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Buryfield didnt agree. It added, in summary, that Mr W didnt need to know something had 
definitely gone wrong, just that matters hadnt transpired as expected. And that it was 
reasonable to think that in 2007 and then at the latest in 2017 when Mr W took benefits from 
his remaining DB scheme, that he would have been aware that the benefits in the DB 
scheme hed transferred from in 2007 had been expected to pay an income in the thousands 
each year and have increases that werent available with his annuity. It also said Mr W 
discussed his pension provision with it and then his ongoing adviser over the years, being 
made aware of the difference. And that our Service has said other complaints are out of time 
where an annuity has been purchased thats clearly less than what the DB scheme benefits 
would have been. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jurisdiction
The rules our service is bound by, known as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules - found in
the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook - say in DISP 2.8.2R that, unless the business
consents (Buryfield hasnt), we cant consider a complaint if its referred to us:
More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or
ought reasonably to have become aware) they had cause for complaint.
The event complained of  the advice Mr W was given to transfer his DB scheme to a PP, 
which he says resulted in a loss  took place in 2007. And, as he didnt raise this with 
Buryfield until 2021 and then our service until 2022, it has been referred to us more than six 
years after the event occurred. This means I have to decide if Mr W was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, he had cause for complaint more than three years before 
he complained to Buryfield.   
Buryfield has said Mr W ought to have been aware he had cause for complaint from 2007, 
as its suitability letter said hed be worse off in retirement if he transferred. And that as Mr W 
signed a declaration confirming everything had been fully explained, he understood the 
transfer was to allow him to buy a property. But I wouldnt expect Mr W to have had cause 
for concern at the time Buryfield gave him the advice that something might have gone 
wrong, considering hed just been given this by an experienced adviser and was relying in it. 
Buryfields TVAS appears to have been based on projections from age 65 onwards, when it 
appears Mr W could actually take reduced benefits from his DB scheme at age 50 or at his 
normal retirement age of 60. As well as taking TFC, Mr W went on to draw down income 
from his PP. And, while he later took an annuity, he did so from age 55. So, as time went on, 
I think it was hard for Mr W to compare the DB scheme benefits he had given up to what he 
now had in his PP, particularly given he doesnt have expert knowledge. I also note that     
Mr Ws PP statements  which he doesnt appear to have always received  projected his 
benefits to age 75. So, again, I dont think it would have been easy for Mr W to compare the 
position he was in with what hed given up, in order to know if something might have gone 
wrong with the transfer advice. I recognise Mr W obtained information about his remaining DB scheme in 2010 and asked 
his ongoing adviser for an explanation of this in laymans terms. But the advisers response 
doesnt show me that he was given one. And, while Mr W continued to review his retirement 
provision with that adviser, I think its likely the focus was on future planning given I can see 
Mr W was concerned to know how much he could reasonably expect from his pensions at 
retirement, rather than on the DB scheme benefits hfe had already given up. 
Buryfield said Mr W ought to have realised what a DB scheme was, as well as the 
guaranteed nature of the benefits hed given up, when he took benefits from his second DB 
scheme in 2017 given this was thousands per year. But I dont think this means Mr W ought 
reasonably to have appreciated something might have gone wrong with the advice he was 
given in the particular circumstances. It was a different scheme with likely different benefit 
amounts. And even if this had prompted Mr W to look at the statement of DB scheme 
benefits hed given up then, for the reasons Ive already given, I dont think he would have 
been able to easily compare it with his PP benefits to know if he had cause to question if 
something might have gone wrong with advice. 
Buryfield suggested Mr W set up his second PP to recycle the benefits to boost his 
retirement provision, as he knew hed get less as a result of the DB transfer. But looking at 
the emails between Mr W and his ongoing adviser, these support that he instead did this as 
a way of accessing more TFC  he was reinvesting the income into the second PP to allow 
him to build up a pot to take TFC from at a later date  rather than because he thought he 
needed to rebuild his pension following the transfer. 
Mr W says he became aware he had cause for complaint about the advice after his 
representative got in touch, in September 2021. I havent seen anything that makes me think 
Mr W ought reasonably to have been alerted to a problem with this before then. And, as      
Mr W referred his complaint to Buryfield and then our Service within three years that, I think 
it has been made in time. 
In summary, I think Mr Ws complaint about the advice Buryfield gave him in 2007 has been 
made in time, which means our Service can consider it.
The advice
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This 
includes the regulators Conduct of Business (COB) rules.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the Investigator. 
Under COB 5.3.29A(4) the regulator expected a prospective investor to receive sufficient, 
clear information to make an informed investment decision based on a firm understanding of 
the risks involved and a knowledge of what protection, rights, expectations and options they 
may be giving up. 
It also expected at least one illustration for the personal pension/section-32 plan had to be 
given on a similar basis to the DB scheme, e.g. what spouses pension and increases in 
payment were shown.
Also, a reason why letter or equivalent had to be issued as soon as practicable after the 
recommendation, which should:explain why that advice is suitable. That explanation should take explicit account of the 
alternative of remaining within the occupational scheme
demonstrate a real link between the circumstances, objectives and risk profile of the 
investor, and the recommendation made to him or her by the firm.
Presumption of unsuitability
COB 5.3.29G (renumbered to COBS 19.1.6G in the current FCA rulebook) specified the 
information Buryfield should gather from the consumer and the DB scheme in order to 
assess suitability. Importantly it also said that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Financial viability 
Buryfield doesnt appear to have suggested the transfer was likely to result in higher 
retirement benefits for Mr W, rather that it was suitable for him to meet his other objectives. 
The suitability report said the critical yield at 10.8% was highly unlikely to be achieved. So, 
as Buryfield seems to accept Mr W was likely to be worse off in retirement as a result of 
transferring from his DB scheme I havent considered this any further. Instead Ive focused 
on whether it was right for it to recommend the transfer in spite of this for other reasons. 
Flexibility and income
I think the general information Buryfield provided Mr W with about pension types in the 
suitability report gave a negative view of DB schemes from the outset, before it had even 
gone on to consider Mr Ws circumstances and give its recommendation. For example, more 
than half the information it provided about DB schemes on pages five and six of the 
suitability report focused on concerns about the financial stability of these, even though         
I cant see anything to suggest Mr W had any concerns about this or that Mr Ws scheme 
was in financial difficulty. In particular it said that the problem of funding these rests with the 
employer and many are in difficulty. And that it isnt possible to quantify the level of 
protection the Pension Protection Fund might provide in that case. And instead of explaining 
that DB schemes provide valuable guaranteed benefits at retirement that arent dependent 
on investment performance and will be lost on transferring, Buryfield went on to express this 
as a disadvantage of such schemes on page 34 of the suitability report. 
While Buryfields starting position ought to have been that the transfer wasnt suitable, on 
page six, before going on to give its conclusions about whether or not it recommended the 
transfer on page 12, it had already told Mr W to see its specific recommendations later on 
how your stated objective of drawing tax free cash now and deferring pension income can be 
met. And when Buryfield did give Mr W its conclusions, I think it phrased these in such a 
way that it largely left it to him to decide for himself which option was most suitable based on 
his needs  and that this led him towards transferring to access TFC  when it said: If for any reason you decide not to draw benefits at this time then you should remain under 
the existing occupational schemesbecause of the critical yield.If however you do require 
access to your tax free cash entitlement.then you should transfer. 
The information shows that Mr Ws objective was to access TFC to help him purchase a 
property, seemingly by either using this as a deposit for a house or by clearing debts to 
increase his borrowing ability. But Buryfields job was to interrogate Mr Ws needs and look 
at his options, including considering whether there were any alternatives, rather than just 
facilitating what he thought he wanted. And I cant see that it did this. 
Buryfield has told us Mr W had numerous debts with total monthly repayments of around 
£389, including a personal loan, finance and credit cards. But it hasnt been able to provide 
information from the time detailing this, for example a full fact find and income and 
expenditure document. While Buryfield said it had a lot more information at the time which is 
no longer available, the adviser has said they arent sure they ever had the full story about 
Mr Ws finances. And theres nothing to show Buryfield explored  or at least tried to explore 
 this with Mr W, including whether or not his debts were up to date and manageable, to see 
if repaying these was a genuine need. And, if so, whether there were any alternatives to 
achieve his aims. For example, taking early retirement from his DB scheme, when it appears 
he could have done this from age 50.
I recognise it appears Mr W was eager to access TFC based on the referral to Buryfield from 
his ongoing adviser, but Mr Ws said this just went into his savings account and wasnt used 
to clear his outstanding balances as these were up to date, or as a deposit to buy a property. 
So there doesnt appear to have been an urgent and genuine need to justify transferring to 
take the increased TFC that a PP would allow for. And if Mr W was genuinely concerned 
about his debts impacting his ability to purchase a property and having a deposit then it 
seems he could have taken early retirement from his DB scheme and repaid some or all of 
these with the TFC, reducing his monthly repayments and increasing his disposable income 
to allow him to save for a deposit.
I recognise page nine of the suitability report shows Mr W said he didnt need to draw an 
income at the time, when taking benefits early from his DB scheme would have provided him 
with one. But, to my mind, the income from his DB scheme would have only increased his 
income and borrowing ability to allow him to get a mortgage in line with his objectives. 
So there doesnt seem to have been any genuine need for Mr W to transfer to a PP. And, 
while Mr W might have been willing to take some risk, I dont think he wanted to take a large 
amount of risk or that he had the capacity to do so. Not least because he said in the risk 
questionnaire that his DB scheme represented a significant proportion of his overall 
retirement fund, which should be protected as far as reasonably possible. And that he had 
no investment experience or savings outside of his pension. So I think its unlikely Mr W 
wouldve given up the guaranteed benefits his DB scheme offered if Buryfield had advised 
him to remain in it.
Overall, I dont think it was suitable advice for Burfield to recommend Mr W transfer his DB 
benefits to a PP. For the above reasons, I think that taking his DB scheme benefits early 
wouldve enabled Mr W to meet his stated objectives and been in his best interests. So, on 
balance, I think Buryfield shouldve advised Mr W to remain in his DB scheme and take 
benefits from this early instead, if he had a genuine need to access funds. 
Summary
I dont doubt that having access to a larger amount of TFC through a PP would have 
sounded attractive to Mr W. But Buryfield wasnt there to just transact what Mr W might have thought he wanted. Its role was to really understand what Mr W needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests. 
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr W was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr W was likely to obtain
lower retirement benefits and I dont think it was in his best interests. As Ive said above,
I think suitable advice in Mr Ws circumstances wouldve been to remain in his DB scheme, 
where he could have looked in to taking the benefits early, if he had a genuine need to 
maximise his income. 
Im not persuaded Mr W wouldve insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme anyway, 
against Buryfields advice. I recognise that in 2010 Mr W was concerned about any further 
lump sums he could take and went on to enquire with his ongoing adviser about how else he 
could access these, including if he could access benefits in his second DB scheme early. 
And in 2011 he also said to his ongoing adviser that he was struggling to balance the books 
and wanted to maximise his income. But this is with the benefit of hindsight and doesnt 
mean Mr W would have gone ahead to transfer to a PP against Buryfields advice if it had 
advised him to remain in this. 
Whilst Mr W mayve been engaged in the process, he was an inexperienced investor with a 
low to medium risk profile and this pension accounted for a significant proportion of 
retirement provision at the time. So, if Buryfield had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and how he 
could meet his objectives by instead taking his benefits from the DB scheme, I think he 
wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Buryfield should compensate Mr W for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Buryfield should also pay Mr W £300 compensation to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by the unsuitable advice. I think this is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the circumstances because, while the advice was unsuitable and I think its likely 
Mr W wouldve remained in DB scheme had it been otherwise, hes only found this out more 
recently and still had the benefit of using his fund.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr W, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr W would 
have most likely remained in the DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Buryfield must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, as Mr W took an annuity showing he was reliant on the funds for an income at 
that point, compensation should be from the date he took the annuity as per the FCAs 
guidance. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Ws acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Buryfield should:
calculate and offer Mr W redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr W before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr W receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr W accepts Buryfields offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr W for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ws end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr W as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Buryfield may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr W 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ws likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Buryfield should also pay Mr W £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by the unsuitable advice.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Buryfield Grange 
Limited to pay Mr W the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Buryfield Grange Limited pays Mr W the balance.
If Mr W accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Buryfield Grange 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely Mr W can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman