DRN-2396095
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs N complain about the way TSB Bank plc handled a current account 
application
What happened
Mr C and Mrs N were existing customers of TSB and hold a number of accounts between 
them. 
Mr C called TSB and arranged a branch appointment so he and Mrs N could open a new 
Classic Plus joint current account. TSB advised Mr C that an appointment with an advisor (Ill 
call him M) had been booked for 4 January 2020. But Mr C called back and rearranged the 
appointment for 11 January 2020. TSB told Mr C that his appointment would be with a 
different advisor (Ill call the second advisor G). 
Mr C and Mrs N visited the branch on 11 January 2020 but didnt meet with G. The 
appointment was handled by the original advisor they had been booked in with, M. But while 
checking a bank statements a mistake was found in the address. The word flat was written 
twice and M advised Mr C and Mrs N that the proof of address couldnt be accepted and the 
application couldnt proceed. 
TSB say that Mr C and Mrs N became upset and aggressive when they were told the proof 
of address provided couldnt be used. Mr C and Mrs N say that M refused to listen to their 
points or take into account that they were making an application as existing customers. Mr C 
and Mrs N asked for a business card with Ms details. As M was new to the branch in 
question, he didnt have a business card available. So M wrote his name on a colleagues 
business card. But Mr C and Mrs N say they couldnt read the name and that it didnt appear 
to match the one they had been given by M. The name written on the business card begins 
with R. 
The advisor, M, left the room and another advisor, S, took over. The next advisor found a 
way to proceed with the application that day without the need for new address documents to 
be provided. But, S found that because Mr C and Mrs N already had Classic Plus accounts 
with TSB, they couldnt open a new joint account. Mr C and Mrs N left without opening a new 
account. 
Mr C and Mrs N complained and TSB responded on 21 January 2020. TSB said Ms view 
that the proof of address provided couldnt be used was correct and that the subsequent 
advisor, S, had managed to verify them via other means. TSB said that the telephone 
advisors Mr C spoke with werent required to check whether they were eligible for the new 
joint account, only arrange a branch appointment. 
Mr C and Mrs N referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
The investigator upheld the complaint as they thought the branch visit could have been 
handled better and that M should have been able to find a solution to verify the consumers in 
the same way that S did. The investigator asked TSB to pay Mr C and Mrs N £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the way their branch visit was handled. 
TSB asked to appeal and provided staff statements that said Mr C and Mrs Ns behaviour 
had been verbally aggressive during their branch visit. As TSB asked to appeal, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the branch appointment didnt go as planned and the situation became tense. I 
note that the appointment was booked with G but was then held with M. 
One of the issues here is that both parties have provided varying versions of what was said 
and what happened during the branch visit. Where information is disputed or incomplete, Ill 
base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have 
happened based on all the available information. 
I dont doubt that Mr C and Mrs N became upset and frustrated when they visited the branch, 
only to be told that even though they were existing customers, the application couldnt 
proceed because of a typing error. Whilst I understand TSB has to ensure it has up to date 
records for regulatory purposes, I can see why normal consumers would be confused by the 
approach. And, whilst I understand the address details had to be correct, I can also see why 
Mr C and Mrs N felt the issue was minor. 
Mr C and Mrs N reached a stalemate with M as he was unwilling to proceed with the 
documents available and asked for his name and business card. TSB has told us M didnt 
have his own business cards at that point so wrote his name on a colleagues. But its clear 
this confused Mr C and Mrs N. In addition, I note that the name M wrote on the business 
card doesnt match the one given to the consumers or in TSBs final response. The name 
written on the business card begins with R. Whilst I dont think there was any deliberate 
intention to mislead Mr C or Mrs N, I can understand why they became more upset and 
confused. When he called TSB to arrange the appointment, Mr C was told his meeting on 11 
January 2020 was booked with G, but it was then taken by M who gave someone elses 
business card and wrote his name down as R. I think its reasonable to say, that is a 
confusing situation that added to the general mood of the appointment. 
The investigator has pointed out that S, the second person Mr C and Mrs N met with, was 
able to verify them via other means. I note the case handler has said that the verification 
process wasnt completed and that a temporary work around had been found by S. But no 
evidence of that point has been supplied, and I can see the case handlers original file 
submission to this service says that they have guessed that S took the decision to proceed 
to diffuse the situation. But the customer notes dont say anything about how S was able to 
proceed with the application. I think its more likely than not that if S was able to proceed with 
the application (even if only to diffuse a difficult meeting), M would have had the same 
options available to him. 
Ultimately, Mr C and Mrs N didnt qualify for the account they wanted to open as they 
already had Classic Plus current accounts. As they dont meet the criteria for new accounts, 
I havent found that TSB made an error when the application didnt proceed. 
Overall, I dont doubt the situation became heated and there was a difference of opinion. But 
I can see why Mr C and Mrs N were confused and became frustrated during the appointment. I agree with the investigator that the service provided by TSB could have been 
better and that the branch visit caused Mr C and Mrs N some distress. As a result, Im going 
to endorse the investigators recommendation that TSB pays Mr C and Mrs N £100 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C and Mrs N 
£100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman