DRN-3730441
The complaint
Mr S complains that repair work undertaken on his car by Aviva Insurance Limited trading as 
Quotemehappy.com (Aviva) was unsatisfactory. 
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
In December 2021 Mr S was involved in an accident whilst in his car. He made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy with Aviva.
Aviva accepted Mr Ss claim and his car was taken to Avivas approved engineers for the 
required repairs to be undertaken.
When Mr Ss car was returned  to him after the damage from the accident had been 
repaired, there were a number of faults identified. The car had to be returned to Avivas 
engineers a number of times for the faults to be rectified. The faults included misaligned 
bodywork and scratches to the paintwork. Mr S also complained about cigarette smoke 
being blown into his car by an engineer.
Aviva paid Mr S £50 compensation for the issues caused.
Approximately two months after the repairs to Mr Ss car had been completed, Mr S found 
that his seatbelt had frayed and also the airbag fault light came on. He contacted Aviva to 
see if this was repair related. 
Aviva told Mr S to take the car to the main dealer for investigation. The main dealer identified 
the fault recorded was door crash sensor. But they were unable to determine why the fault 
was there and said it required further diagnostic investigation to determine the malfunction.
A post repair inspection was also carried out by an independent engineer. The inspection 
findings were inconclusive. It did not confirm if the fault with the airbag was related to the 
accident and the previous repairs that had been carried out by Avivas engineers. The issue 
with the seatbelt was found to be wear and tear.
Aviva declined to do anything further with Mr Ss car and declined to pay the cost of the main 
dealer diagnostic. Aviva offered to pay Mr S an additional  £175 for its failings, but he 
rejected this. 
Mr S got the airbag fault repaired at his own expense. It was found to be a cut wire that had 
caused the airbag fault and he believes this was caused by Avivas engineers.
As Mr S was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and thought Aviva 
had acted fairly and in line with the terms of the policy by declining the additional damage, as 
there is no evidence to show the cut wire was caused by Avivas engineers.
As Mr S is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints relating to claims for damage to a vehicle, our service cant
determine how the damage occurred, this is a matter for the experts, insurance companies
and engineers. Our role is to determine whether the insurer has considered all the available
evidence and can justify its decision not to pay for repairs.
In this case the car was inspected by the main dealer and also by an independent assessor 
appointed by Aviva. I have seen the two reports that were completed after the inspections. 
Both the main dealer and the independent assessment said further investigations were 
required to determine the malfunction of the airbag.  
Aviva declined to pay for further investigations. It said the issue to the airbag sensor was at 
the complete opposite side of the car to the damage it had repaired. And it was two months 
since the car had been returned to Mr S and the fault occurring. 
Mr S referenced a miscode in the cars computer that was picked up in the main dealers 
inspection report. This had occurred when his car was being repaired. I saw evidence that 
Aviva confirmed with the main dealer that this was not related to the airbag fault. 
Aviva said as it could not relate the fault to the accident or repairs it could not rectify it. It 
offered a further £175 increase to the compensation paid for its earlier failings. 
Mr S organised for the airbag issue to be repaired at his own expense. It was found that it 
was a cut wire that had been taped back together which had caused the airbag sensor fault. 
Mr S believes it was caused by Avivas engineers whilst the repairs from the accident were 
being completed.
I do understand that Mr S had some issues with the initial repairs completed by Avivas 
engineers. However I have not seen any evidence to prove the fault with the airbag wiring 
can be related to the accident or the repairs undertaken. Or that a wire was cut intentionally. 
I am satisfied that Aviva used an engineers professional opinion to make its decision not to 
cover the issue with the airbag in this case. And that its offer of a total of £225 in 
compensation for its failings was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Therefore, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and I do not require Aviva to do anything further 
in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman