DRN-4329086
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt protected him from losing money to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
here. In brief summary, Mr A has explained that in October 2022 scammers persuaded him 
his banking was compromised, and they tricked him into making payments from his HSBC 
account to his Revolut account, and from his Revolut account to various merchants. He says 
the scammers also, through HSBC, took out a loan for £8,000 and an overdraft facility of 
£2,000 in his name.
The push payments from Mr As HSBC account to his Revolut account were as follows.
Payment number Date Amount (£)
1 03 October 2022 6,000
2 03 October 2022 375
3 03 October 2022 2,000
Total 8,375
Ultimately, Mr A didnt reach agreement with HSBC about things, so he referred his 
complaint about HSBC to us. One of our Investigators looked into things but was unable to 
resolve matters informally. The matter has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr A and HSBC my provisional decision in August, which they both responded to. Im 
now ready to explain my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for materially the same reasons 
as explained in my provisional decision. Ive explained why again below.
Let me say again, first of all, I have no doubt Mr A has been the victim of a scam here. He 
has my heartfelt sympathy. Ultimately, however, Mr A has suffered his loss because of 
fraudsters, and this doesnt automatically entitle him to a refund from HSBC. It would only be 
fair for me to tell HSBC to reimburse Mr A his loss (or part of it) if I thought HSBC reasonably 
ought to have prevented the payments (or some of them) in the first place, or HSBC 
unreasonably hindered recovery of the funds after the payments had been made; and if I 
was satisfied, overall, this was a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Prevention
Im satisfied Mr A authorised the relevant payments, albeit he was tricked by scammers into 
doing so. HSBC would generally be expected to process payments a customer authorises it 
to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the 
account, Mr A is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where he 
authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry practice HSBC should 
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly sufficiently 
unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there are many payments made by customers each day and its 
not realistic or reasonable to expect HSBC to stop and check every payment instruction. 
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
 
The prior activity of Mr As HSBC account is an important consideration when considering 
whether these payments were sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account such 
that HSBC should have paused the payments, pending further enquiries, before allowing 
them through. 
Looking at Mr As account activity in the months before he was scammed, hed made some 
payments for around £3,000, but nothing greater than this. So, his first payment (on 
3 October 2022) for £6,000 was for an unusual and uncharacteristic amount. That said, I can 
see that Mr A had previously made payments from his HSBC account to the same account 
to which his £6,000 was headed  in particular, on 5 September 2021, 30 July 2022, 
8 August 2022, and 10 August 2022. So I think it would have looked to HSBC like Mr A was 
sending the £6,000 to an account in his own name, which hed previously paid several times 
without issue, and that there wasnt anything sufficiently concerning about the instruction to 
warrant intervention. Im satisfied it wasnt therefore unreasonable that HSBC didnt 
intervene in the £6,000 payment to Revolut and (for the same reasons) the £375 payment 
and then the £2,000. 
I appreciate what Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision, namely that it seems 
unfair that HSBC would let his account balance drop so much, without intervening, when his 
account balance, he says, had never been close to zero ever since 2018. However, whilst I 
have no doubt that had HSBC intervened in these payments it would have unearthed the 
scam, as Ive said, its not realistic or reasonable to expect HSBC to stop and check every 
payment instruction, and theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that 
could potentially be fraudulent, and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And given 
this, and for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied I cant reasonably say HSBC ought to 
have been obliged to have paused the payments to Mr As Revolut account pending 
enquiries with Mr A. It follows, this means Im satisfied HSBC did not unreasonably miss an 
opportunity to prevent the payments.
Recovery
When Mr A told HSBC hed been scammed, HSBC should have done its best to try to get his 
money back. However, Mr A instructed HSBC to send the payments to his Revolut account. 
Thats what HSBC did. By the time Mr A told HSBC hed been scammed the money had 
already been sent on from his Revolut account to various merchants, which Im satisfied 
HSBC could not reasonably have helped recover. The loan and the overdraft
Its unclear how the fraudsters tricked Mr A into the loan of £8,000 and overdraft of £2,000. 
But I dont doubt from everything Ive seen that they somehow did; and that this wasnt the 
fault of HSBC, nor Mr A (who was tricked by the fraudsters).  
Im pleased to see HSBC successfully prevented the loss of the £8,000 loan funds. That is, 
when the loan of £8,000 hit Mr As HSBC account, I understand that the scammers tricked 
Mr A into instructing a payment of this amount (£8,000) out of his account (on top, and in 
addition to, the payments already addressed above) but that HSBC successfully prevented 
this from leaving the account. Mr A didnt therefore lose the loan funds. And because I dont 
think, for the reasons Ive already explained, that HSBC can be held responsible for the 
payments that did leave Mr As HSBC account, I think HSBCs offer to remove interest from 
the loan is a fair one. I cant ask HSBC to cancel the loan without collecting repayment of the 
principal balance (without interest) from Mr A in circumstances where Mr A didnt lose the 
loan money, nor have I found HSBC at fault in regard to the money he did lose. 
Regarding the overdraft, which I understand was utilised and lost (this enabled the 
scammers to trick Mr A into paying £8,375 out of his account rather than £6,375), again I 
havent seen anything to persuade me this was HSBCs fault.  
I understand Mr A will be disappointed. However, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think 
HSBC unreasonably missed an opportunity to prevent the loss of these payments. Fraud of 
this type can be deeply upsetting; I think this was always, once it had happened, going to be 
a distressing and inconvenient period for Mr A. So for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
uphold this complaint about HSBC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Neil Bridge
Ombudsman