DRN-3206179
The complaint
Ms R complains Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream passed her loan accounts to a 
third-party collection agency without telling her. Ms R also says she didnt hear from Lending 
Stream after the repayments stopped in October 2018. 
In order to put things right Ms R has asked for the interest to be removed, to repay the 
capital that was borrowed and to remove the defaults from her credit file. 
What happened
In total Ms R was advanced nine instalement loans, but this complaint is concerned with 
the final two loans Lending Stream advanced. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
repaymentslargest 
monthly 
repayment
8 £500.00 22/09/2018 sold 6 £170.33
9 £300.00 15/10/2018 sold 6 £106.94
Ms R says that initially Lending Stream wouldnt issue her with a final response letter (FRL) 
but following our involvement one was issued in September 2021.
In the FRL Lending Stream confirmed the first payment due for loan 8 was taken as 
expected in October 2018. However, in November 2018 Lending Stream says payments 
couldnt be taken due to insufficient funds in Ms Rs bank account. 
When the payments were unsuccessful in November 2018 Lending Stream says the 
accounts went into arrears. When no further payments were made a notice of intention of 
default wouldve be sent and then finally a notice of termination. Lending Stream says these 
notices wouldve been emailed and or posted to the address that it held for Ms R at the time. 
Following further non-payment Lending Stream transferred ownership of the loans to a third-
party collection agency in September 2019. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and she didnt think Lending Stream had done 
anything wrong in relation to the last two loan accounts. She could see that Ms R hadnt kept 
up with her scheduled payments for loans eight and nine. 
She could also see that Lending Stream sent various notices to the address that it held for 
Ms R, an old address and the current address that Ms R provided to the Financial 
Ombudsman when she brought her complaint here. It also sent emails to the address it held 
for her. 
Our adjudicator concluded it was Ms Rs responsibility to keep her contact details up to date 
with Lending Stream and she was satisfied that Lending Stream had followed the correct 
process by defaulting the accounts and this has been reported, accurately to the credit 
reference agencies. 
Lending Stream appear to have agreed with the adjudicator.
Ms R didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. In response she made a number 
of comments, including; 
Ms R accepts that the responsibility lies with her with regards to updating her contact 
details with Lending Stream. 
She reaffirmed that her bank told her no payments were requested by Lending 
Stream. 
Ms R says the impact on her credit score is significant and is keeping her credit score 
low. 
Later on, following a telephone call between Ms R and the adjudicator she explained;
She hadnt received any communication from Lending Stream about the missed 
payments  the first she knew about it was when bailiffs turned up at her property. 
Ms R said her bank told her no loan repayments had been requested by Lending 
Stream. 
Ms R says she moved to one address that Lending Stream held for her in August 
2017 and then her previous address in May 2018. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R had made some previous comments to the adjudicator about the affordability of the 
loans, but I wont be addressing those issues in this decision for the reasons the adjudicator 
has already explained to Ms R. 
If Ms R has had any issues with the third-party collection agency she will need to take it up 
directly with them as part of a separate complaint, as they are not party to this complaint or 
decision. 
Ms R hasnt provided a copy of her credit report and Lending Stream hasnt provided a copy 
of the information that it says it is reporting to the credit reference agencies. So, I dont know 
for sure, exactly what dates it says the accounts have been defaulted. But both parties do 
agree that the accounts have been defaulted and the balances sold to a third party debt 
collection agency. 
The crux of this complaint is that Ms R says she wasnt told about the defaults, Lending 
Stream made no attempt to contact her and the reason the payments failed was due to an 
issue with Lending Stream not collecting the payments that were due rather than for 
example not having sufficient funds in the account. 
Firstly, Ms R says that Lending Stream didnt attempt to take the payments that were due to 
be made in November 2018. She says that her bank has told her the request for payment 
wasnt made by Lending Stream. 
However, Lending Stream says it wasnt an issue with their payments because it was able to 
successfully claim a payment for loan 8 in October 2018. Ms R hasnt provided the Financial Ombudsman with any evidence to show that the 
payments not being collected was because of an error made by Lending Stream. For 
example, I havent seen anything from her bank which supports this and neither have I seen 
any bank statements from the account in question. 
So, I cant say for sure, that Lending Stream made an error with the collection of the 
payments. And neither can I see whether, like Lending Stream says, that the payment was 
denied due to a lack of available funds. 
What I can say, is that Ms R provided Lending Stream with the same sort code and account 
number for each loan she applied for, and as Lending Stream says it was successful in 
claiming the first payment due for loan 8 in October 2018. There also, as far as I can see no 
other significant repayment issues on the prior loans collecting payments from the account 
Ms R had provided. So it isnt clear why at this time Lending Stream wouldnt have 
requested the payments.
Therefore, without any evidence to the contrary Im persuaded that on balance, Lending 
Stream did attempt a payment and for whatever reason it was unsuccessful. 
Notwithstanding the issue of taking the payment, Ive set out below what has happened in 
this case  based on the information that I have been provided by both parties. Ill then to go 
on and see what the industry guidance says about defaulting loan accounts. 
Lending Stream couldnt after just one unsuccessful payment default the loan accounts. 
There is a well-established approach and process that it is required to follow to enable an 
account to be defaulted. If this process was followed, then even if an error was made in the 
collection of payments it wouldve provided Ms R with ample opportunity to contact Lending 
Stream and bring the accounts up to date. 
Lending Stream has shown, that after the November 2018 payments were unsuccessful it 
emailed Ms B on 24 November 2018 to let her know her two loan accounts were in arrears. 
Those emails Lending Stream says were sent to the same email address that Ms R has 
provided the Financial Ombudsman as part of her complaint. I havent been provided with 
anything to suggest that those emails were returned. 
Payments once again werent made / or collected in December 2018, and so Lending 
Stream sent another email to the same address that it had sent the first notices too. Again, 
there isnt any indication that this message was returned as undelivered. 
By January 2019, Ms B hadnt brought the account up to date, and the accounts were now in 
arrears. At this point, Lending Stream a couple of days after payment was due to be 
received emailed and posted notices of defaults to Ms R. 
The notices of default were posted to the address that has house number 1 in. This was the 
same address that Ms R had provided to Lending Stream as part of her applications for 
loans 8 and 9. As far as Lending Stream was aware, this was the correct and up to date 
address that it shouldve been using. 
Ms R provided the adjudicator with the date that she moved to the address with house 
number 1 in May 2018. So, it does seem that the address that Lending Stream posted the 
default notices to was correct. 
These default notices contained the information that Lending Stream was required to input to 
make it a compliant notice of default. In as much as it explained to Ms R that her account 
was in arrears, it explained what she needed to do in order bring the account up to date and importantly, Lending Stream provided a date as to which this needed to happen by  
15 February 2019. 
As far as I can see no payments were made so on 15 February 2019 Lending Stream, this 
time by email  let Ms R know that the account had now been terminated. As part of this 
letter, Lending Stream explained; 
If you do not settle the balance on your account we may transfer the responsibility for 
recovery of the debt to one of our debt recovery agents with a view to taking action 
for recovery.
Finally, Lending Stream transferred ownership of the accounts to a third-party collection 
agency in September 2019. 
In order to establish whether I think Lending Stream followed the correct process before 
defaulting the account, Ive considered the guidance and rules issued by the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO).
The ICO is the body created which deals with an individuals data, and it has released a
document called Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at
Credit Reference Agencies  this is the guidance that the Financial Ombudsman uses when 
determining whether a default ought to have been applied and or whether one shouldnt 
have been added to a credit file.
The basis of the principles is that;
Lenders that supply data to the CRAs are required to ensure that the data is 
accurate, up to date and meets agreed quality standards.
Principle 2 goes on to explain;
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to
reflect this will be recorded on your credit file
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported
to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted
Clearly, the ICO foresees a situation where a consumer takes out a product  in this case 
Ms R took instalment loans and then the ICO makes it clear that should arrears continue 
over time, then the account(s) may default. 
Indeed, in this case, apart from one successful payment due for loan 8, there doesnt 
appear, based on the information Lending Stream has provided that shows any further 
repayments have been made. In that situation, the ICO says Lending Stream would be 
entitled to record a default. 
4. If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep to the
revised terms of an arrangement, a default may be recorded to
show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally
by the time you are 6 months in arrears.There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later
stage, such as secured or long-term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates
in a more flexible way e.g. current accounts, student loans, home credit.
In this case, Ms R took out two loans, and payments werent made  whether that be as a 
result of Lending Stream failing to take the payment or due to some other reasons, 
ultimately, Im satisfied that Ms R ought to have been aware that she had payments that 
were due to be made. 
Payments werent made, and so in line with the ICO guidance Lending Stream was entitled 
to default the loan accounts. In addition, it has also supplied evidence to show that it emailed 
and wrote to Ms R at the address that it held for her to let her know payments had been 
missed and what she needed to do in order to bring the account back up to date. 
As far as I can see Lending Stream didnt receive a response to its letters or emails and so 
its fair to say, that in this case the relationship between it and Ms R had broken down. So, I 
dont think it unreasonable that Lending Stream reported a default with the credit reference 
agencies. 
In addition, Lending Stream, as part of its notice of termination explained to Ms R that it may 
pass her account to at third party  which it did and was entitled to do. 
Overall, Ms R didnt make payments for her final two loans from Lending Stream in 
accordance to the payment schedule within the credit agreement. Lending Stream contacted 
Ms R through email and post to let her know that her account was in arrears and when the 
account wasnt brought up to date, it then took the decision to default. In my view, in this 
case, Lending Stream has followed the process as outlined by the ICO  which it was 
required to do.
I accept that these defaults may be having an impact on Ms Rs ability to obtain further 
credit, but they are an accurate reflection of the way she ran her loan accounts. So, I cant 
fairly say that the defaults should be removed because they have been correctly applied 
following a period of non-payment and a breakdown in the relationship. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman