DRN-2401218
The complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 2005. The policy was taken out in 
one of the banks branches and provided Mr A with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr A didnt agree, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint for the following reasons:
Mr A says he was told he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. I cant say with any 
certainty what was discussed during the meeting so, although Ive taken Mr As recollection 
into account, Ive relied more on the paperwork that was completed at the time.
The mortgage application included a separate section headed Mortgage payment 
insurance. There were three options  to take the cover, to request more information and a 
quotation, or to decline the cover. The mortgage advisor ticked the first box to indicate that 
Mr A agreed to take the cover. When Mr A was sent his mortgage offer, it included 
information about insurance and described the PPI, in bold print, as Optional Insurance. 
Overall, I think it more likely than not that Santander made Mr A aware that the PPI was 
optional and that he chose to take it.
Santander recommended the policy to Mr A and it doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because:
Mr A was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr A told us he would have received 21 days pay from his employer if he couldnt work due 
to sickness and that, in the case of an accident, this would be subject to review. Hes also 
told us he didnt have any other income or savings to rely on. The PPI would have paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim for accident or sickness in addition to 
his sick pay. It also covered him if hed become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant 
long-term financial commitment and Mr As home was at risk if he didnt keep up with the 
repayments. So I think the PPI could have been a useful benefit.
Ive taken into account that Mr A says he could rely on his wife and, as a last resort, his 
parents if he couldnt pay his mortgage. But its not clear whether his wife would have been 
able to meet the mortgage repayments together with all the other household expenses. And 
his parents werent a guaranteed source of income. So this does not change my conclusion.
Mr A wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefitted from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he needed better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations. Mr A says he became 
self-employed, but I havent seen evidence to show that he was considering this when he 
took out the PPI.
The mortgage offer included a quotation for the PPI policy of £40. This was around £5 more 
than the actual cost Mr A had to pay when the policy started. So I think Mr A was made 
aware of roughly how much the policy would cost him before he took it out.
Its possible the information the bank gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Santanders recommendation 
was unsuitable and I dont think Mr A would have made a different decision about taking out 
the policy if better information had been provided to him  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman