DRN-3591719
The complaint
The estate of Mrs J complains about transfer delays and errors caused by Aberdeen 
Standard Fund Managers Limited (Aberdeen)
What happened
In September 2017, Aberdeen received instructions on behalf of the late Mrs J, to transfer 
her entire portfolio, held across ISA and unwrapped investments, to a discretionary 
investment manager to be invested into a portfolio to reduce inheritance tax. The transfer 
was delayed initially due to issues with provision of a certified power of attorney and delays 
in provision of verification documentation for anti-money-laundering (AML) requirements. 
By February 2018 AML documents for all those named on the power of attorney 
documentation had been sent to Aberdeen and a certified copy of the power of attorney was 
provided in March 2018. Aberdeen continued to ask for further information in line with their 
verification process but in September 2018, they exercised discretion to progress the 
transfer. In September/October 2018 six transfer forms were sent to Aberdeen, on the late 
Mrs Js behalf. In October 2018 Aberdeen told the late Mrs Js adviser (IFA) that the non-ISA 
transfer had been made to the discretionary investment manager. 
In June 2019, following a review of the investments, the IFA discovered the ISA had not 
transferred and the unwrapped investments had been transferred into a new internal account 
in the name of the discretionary investment manager. After errors were identified and some 
investigation undertaken, the transfers took place. 
Those acting on behalf of the estate of Mrs J say that but for the errors made, the funds 
would have transferred earlier into a tax efficient portfolio. They say losses were sustained 
as a result of the delays.
Aberdeen maintain that they were clear about the information required to verify the late     
Mrs J but it wasnt provided. Further, there were delays in receiving a certified copy of the 
power of attorney and in enquires having reasonably to be made about the late Mrs Js 
capacity. And whilst some information was provided by March 2018, further delay ensued 
whilst a new instruction was sent. Aberdeen maintain that they followed their AML procedure 
but given the particular circumstances they decided to proceed with the transfer on a 
discretionary basis on the information provided.
Aberdeen accept that errors were made in September 2018, when they advised the IFA that 
they had everything they needed for an ISA transfer, this error was corrected, but a further 
request was made in respect of the investment fund holdings. On 18 October 2018 
Aberdeen accept that they incorrectly opened a new account in the name of the 
discretionary investment manager and transferred the late Mrs Js holdings into it. And 
Aberdeen accept they were wrong to inform the IFA that the non-ISA funds had transferred. 
They point out that a new transfer acceptance letter or new STF was requested at this time 
for the ISA holdings because of discrepancy in the named recipient. Aberdeen say they took 
the extra step of writing to the custodian to clarify the name of the correct recipient and they 
werent required to do anything more.
Aberdeen apologised for the difficulties experienced whilst trying to transfer the late Mrs Js 
holdings, but maintained they did not receive correct instructions and at times received 
conflicting information. Overall responsibility for monitoring the investments fell to the IFA 
and Aberdeen were adamant they were not responsible for any delays in the transfer 
process, highlighting the lack of activity in the eight-month period after October 2018. 
However, they did accept shortcomings in their customer service provision for which £150 in 
compensation was offered.
Our investigator considered the complaint and decided to uphold it. Having reviewed the 
timeline of events, she considered that Aberdeen didnt receive a certified copy of the power 
of attorney until 23 March 2018, so it wouldnt have been reasonable for a transfer to have 
been completed before this date.
Our investigator agreed that Aberdeen made an error in transferring the non-ISA funds into 
an incorrect account and in advising the IFA that the funds had been transferred on 26 
October 2018. Our investigator thought that responsibility for these mistakes rested with 
Aberdeen. As to the ISA, our investigator agreed that Aberdeen requested more information 
from the IFA in the call on 26 October 2018 and that Aberdeen sought clarification of the 
recipient on 31 October 2018, but there was nothing to show that Aberdeen checked to see 
that correspondence had been received and they didnt chase a response. She thought they 
were responsible for the eight-month delay in transferring the ISA.
To put things right our investigator recommended that Aberdeen should pay the difference in 
performance of the non-ISA funds as if they had transferred on 18 October 2018, and the 
ISA funds as if theyd transferred two weeks after 31 October 2018. The first date was when 
the funds were moved to the internal account and she selected the second date as a 
reasonable period after Aberdeen ought to have chased for a response to the request to 
confirm the recipients name.  
Aberdeen did not agree with the view and continued to deny they caused any delay in the 
transfer process. They pointed out the sizeable compensation offered, namely £150 and 
submitted that: the error should have been identified earlier, the IFA would have needed to 
have given further instructions before any transfer could take place and they werent 
responsible for delay in the ISA transfer as it wasnt for Aberdeen to chase information from 
the new plan manager. 
As the parties do not agree the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I think it is helpful to highlight at the outset that our service provides an informal dispute 
resolution service. We have no regulatory or disciplinary powers, which means we cant tell a 
business how to operate or impose any penalty. We consider each case on its own facts and 
we make decisions based upon the balance of probabilities, namely, whether something is 
more likely than not to have happened. Where things have gone wrong, we look to 
compensate on a fair and reasonable basis.
There were a number of factors causing delays during 2017 and 2018, where various 
instructions were given and verification documents were requested. Its clear that both 
parties feel the other could have done more and it appears that at times there was 
confusion. I also appreciate that the estate of Mrs J felt the AML checks were onerous, but 
overall theres nothing to show that Aberdeen acted outside their processes and as Ive 
explained it isnt within our remit to tell a business how to operate. Further, Ive seen that in 
this particular case, Aberdeen did go on to exercise discretion in the late Mrs Js favour in 
any event. I also agree with our investigator that Aberdeen did nothing wrong in requesting 
and waiting for a certified copy of the power of attorney to be provided.
But it is clear that things did go wrong later on. It isnt disputed that Aberdeen transferred the 
non-ISA funds into a new internal account in the name of the discretionary investment 
manager as the investor in October 2018. They then went on to reassure the IFA that the 
transfer to the discretionary investment manager had completed correctly. Ive also seen that 
Aberdeen issued correspondence to the discretionary investment manager as the named 
investor rather than the late Mrs J, which caused further confusion. Aberdeen say insufficient 
evidence had been provided to establish that they were definitively and inarguably 
responsible for any delay in transfer. But as Ive explained at the outset, the applicable 
standard of proof is whether it is more likely than not that Aberdeen caused delay. On 
balance, Im persuaded that it is more likely that the errors made by Aberdeen did lead to the 
delay in transferring the non-ISA funds. Its common ground that the original, fundamental 
error was made by Aberdeen, it wasnt identified by them and it was compounded by their 
assurance to the IFA that the transfer had completed properly. In my view it wasnt 
unreasonable for the IFA to rely upon that assurance.
As to the ISA transfer, it is my view that context is relevant in this particular complaint. As 
seen by the timeline above, the original transfer requests had been made in September 
2017 and Ive heard in the calls that this information was held on the late Mrs Js account. 
So, the history was known to Aberdeen. Aberdeen acknowledge they received an ISA 
acceptance letter in August 2018, in which they noted details of a different recipient 
business. Whilst that request was rejected as other information was outstanding, Aberdeen 
accept that at that time they, could have also advised xx of the conflicting information they 
had provided regarding the recipient of the transfer and theyve apologised for this 
shortcoming. Following this, a mistake was made in September when Aberdeen confirmed to 
the IFA that they had received everything required for the ISA transfer and by this time 
theyd agreed no further verification information was required. This mistake was corrected 
within a few days. Some correspondence was also sent to Mrs J at an address she didnt 
live at. 
By October 2018 Aberdeen had received transfer forms for the ISA. Aberdeen then spoke to 
the IFA about the conflicting information as to the recipient on the acceptance and transfer 
forms, following which they wrote to the custodian to clarify the situation so that the transfer 
could be made. But thereafter no further steps were taken. In my view, against the backdrop 
of this particular case, I dont think it was reasonable for Aberdeen not to seek a response. In 
my view they caused a muddled journey and the impression was given that things were in 
hand. Its common ground that the failure to transfer then wasnt brought to light until June 
2019.Taking all of the above into account, on balance, its my view that in this particular case 
shortcomings by Aberdeen led to the ISA transfer delay. In my view, had the last response 
been chased, it was more likely than not that the transfer would have taken place earlier.
In light of my findings, I am upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
But for the errors made by Aberdeen, I consider that it is more likely than not that the 
transfers would have progressed earlier. 
The discretionary investment manager has now confirmed that once funds were received, 
they would have been invested directly and no further instructions were required from the 
IFA, so from their side there wouldnt have been any further delay. On balance, on the basis 
of the information provided, I am persuaded that it is likely. 
In my view, I think it is fair and reasonable for Aberdeen to pay the difference in performance 
for the respective investments between the date of transfer in and date the investments 
ought reasonably to have transferred in. Whilst I cant say exactly what timeline would have 
applied, broadly, I think the dates selected by our investigator are fair and reasonable. So, 
for the non-ISA funds I think that date should be 18 October 2018, when the funds were 
moved to an internal account. For the ISA funds, I think two weeks from the last request in 
which confirmation of the correct name was made, which would be 14 November 2018, 
being a reasonable period for the information to have been obtained. Had things not gone 
wrong, the late Mrs J would also have benefitted from growth on that difference. So, in 
addition, the growth of that difference should be added, to be calculated at the growth rate of 
the respective investments from the date of transfer in to the date of encashment. 
Ive seen that Aberdeen offered £150 to the estate of Mrs J to compensate for poor service. 
As we cant direct a business to compensate an estate for trouble and upset, its a matter for 
the estate to decide whether or not to accept that offer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I am upholding this complaint. I direct Aberdeen Standard Fund 
Managers Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms J 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman