DRN-2094468
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs J took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 2001. The policy provided 
them with unemployment cover in the event that Mr J couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this was a complaint we should uphold. 
Mr and Mrs J disagree and theyve put forward a number of points in support of their 
complaint. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs J told us that they were sold the PPI as part of the mortgage 
package and they werent ever given the option not to take PPI. They are concerned that 
Mr J s employment arrangements meant that he wouldnt have been able to claim on the 
policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been sold. But Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any 
documents signed by Mr and Mrs J to show how they took out the PPI. But I dont think 
thats surprising given that the mortgage account closed around 14 years ago. 
Mr and Mrs J remember speaking with an advisor when they arranged their mortgage. So 
I think its likely thats probably how the PPI was sold to them.
But what they say about the way they were sold the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold their complaint. I have to look at all the available information and decide what 
I think is most likely. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a number of years. 
Mr and Mrs Js home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date 
and only Mr J was in paid work at the time. The PPI provided a dependable means of 
ensuring their monthly repayments were protected even if Mr J lost his job unexpectedly and 
became unemployed.  So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful. 
And it looks like they probably did have a discussion about PPI as it appears that Mr J only 
opted for unemployment cover and they didnt choose to take out accident and sickness 
cover for him. I assume this reflects their wishes and priorities at the time. And it suggests to 
me that they wouldve been made aware of the option to take out PPI and they understood it 
was up to them to say if they wanted it. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J decided they wanted to have the 
benefits that PPI offered them and they chose to buy the policy. 
Nationwide says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs J to take out the policy. But Nationwide still had 
to give them enough clear information so Mr and Mrs J could decide if the policy was right 
for them.
Mr J was eligible for the policy. 
He told us that he wasnt entitled to sick pay from his employer. The policy paid out for up to 
12 months for each successful claim if Mr J lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
I dont know if Mr and Mrs J wouldve always had savings they could rely on if theyd needed 
to make a claim. Having PPI wouldve meant they could keep savings intact to provide 
financial security for the future or pay for other things they mightve been saving up for. And, 
if they chose not to put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing, I think 
Mr and Mrs J would have valued the protection PPI offered if it meant they could protect their 
savings.  
So, looking at Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time, I think the policy couldve been 
useful to them. 
Its possible some information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI when they took 
out their mortgage wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. There were some things the policy 
didnt cover. 
I've taken carefully into account what Mrs J has told us about Mr Js employment at the time 
 shes certain that Mr J was working on a casual temporary basis as and when work was 
available. 
I've no reason to doubt that Mrs J is sure shes right about this. But what she says isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. 
I've taken into account everything that Mrs J has been able to send me.
Even though it appears Mr Js pay varied, that doesnt show that he wasnt employed (in 
line with the policy definition) or that he wouldnt have been able to make a claim under this 
part of the policy. 
And as far as I can see, Mr J wasnt working for anyone else - which I mightve expected if 
he was only working on a casual basis when work was available. 
Ive seen Mr Js end of year certificate for tax, issued around the time Mr and Mrs J wouldve 
been applying for this mortgage, which shows the company he named as his employer. And 
theres nothing I can see that suggests to me that Mr J wasnt a full time employee at that 
business.Mr and Mrs J have mentioned that Mr J did enquire about a claim but then didnt pursue this 
in view of informal advice he received. But this isnt enough to show that he was mis-sold the 
PPI. 
And it looks like Mr J told Nationwide that he was a full time employee working for the person 
who paid him. 
Mr and Mrs J have gone to a lot of trouble to try and find more paperwork to support what 
they say and I appreciate that it is frustrating for them not to be able to produce more 
evidence in support of their complaint. But I dont feel I've seen enough fairly to be able to 
say that Mr Js employment was only temporary when he signed up for the PPI. 
On balance, it doesnt look to me as if Mr J was affected by any of the conditions limiting the 
policys main benefits. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt 
cover wouldve affected their decision to take it out.
I dont know if or how the policy costs were explained to Mr and Mrs J when they took it out. 
But Ive seen nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable for them. And as this was a 
policy they paid for each month, Mr and Mrs J couldve cancelled it at any time at no extra cost 
if they didnt want to pay for it. 
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But I think 
Mr and Mrs J still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it 
offered them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think having better 
information wouldve put them off buying it.
 
Overall, this means I dont find that Mr and Mrs J have lost out as a result of anything that 
Nationwide did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman