DRN-3495305
Complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his accounts.
Background
In March 2021, Mr A opened two current accounts and a savings account with Barclays. A 
few days later, Barclays sent him a letter telling him that it was closing his accounts with 
immediate effect. Mr A subsequently complained about Barclays actions. Barclays didnt 
uphold Mr As complaint. As Mr A remained dissatisfied, Mr A referred the matter to our 
service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards    
Mr A and so Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator explained to Mr A, a bank is under no obligation to continue offering an 
account to a consumer if it doesnt wish to do so. And, after completing its final checks, 
Barclays decided it didnt wish to have Mr A as a customer. Mr A was unhappy that Barclays 
didnt disclose the reasons for closing his account. However, closing a customers account is 
a commercial decision that a bank is entitled to take. And it has no obligation to share its 
reasons for that decision.
Nonetheless, Mr A has since been told that his account was closed because, amongst other 
things, Barclays saw a fraud marker another financial institution had recorded against him. I 
understand that Mr A is aware of this marker, the reasons for it as well as the financial 
institution responsible for recording it. Mr A says that Barclays should have contacted him 
when it discovered the fraud marker and he could have cleared matters up. But it wasnt 
Barclays responsibility to investigate the circumstances behind this marker being recorded. 
Ultimately, it is the financial institution recording the markers responsibility to carry out an 
investigation and determine whether it is appropriate to record one. All Barclays did was 
react to information that another financial institution had placed against Mr As record by 
closing his accounts. Ive seen that Mr A has argued these checks ought to have been 
carried before the account was opened, it is up to Barclays to decide what steps it decides to 
take at the relevant stages when opening accounts. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A and I can appreciate why the closure of his 
account will have caused him inconvenience. I also suspect that theres an element of 
disappointment that hes not been able to open an account with a high street bank. But its 
only open to me to make an award for distress and inconvenience where I find that a 
respondent firm has done something wrong. I know that Mr A believes the fraud marker was 
incorrectly recorded against him in the first place. But if that is the case, this is a matter hell 
have to take up with the financial institution which recorded it in the first place. My decision in 
this case is purely limited to Barclays actions.  
In this case, Im satisfied that Barclays reasonably reacted to the information it saw about the 
fraud marker recorded against Mr A and that it was entitled to take the course of action it did. 
So I dont think that Barclays did anything wrong here. And while Mr A might have gone on 
to experience inconvenience and disappointment (Ive seen what hes said about having to 
go into branch to withdraw funds and the time he says hes lost), Im satisfied that none of 
this occurred because Barclays acted unfairly or did something it wasnt entitled to do. 
Finally, Ive seen that in the period Mr As complaint has been here, hes since complained 
that Barclays continued sending him marketing materials months after his account was 
closed. But I dont think it is appropriate for me to comment about these matters in this 
decision for a couple of reasons. Firstly, I cant see that Barclays has had the chance to 
consider what Mr A has said about receiving marketing materials months after his account 
was closed. And we only normally look at a complaint once a respondent firm has had the 
chance to consider the matter. 
Secondly and perhaps more importantly, Mr A is effectively complaining that Barclays hasnt 
carried out a request to remove him from its mailing list. As this is primarily concerned with 
how Barclays is holding and using Mr As personal information, rather than the provision of a 
financial service, I think that this is, in any event, most likely to be a matter thats better 
suited to the Information Commissioners Office.    
 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards 
Mr A and Im not upholding this complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for    
Mr A. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell appreciate why 
Barclays was entitled to close his accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman