DRN-4084297
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A have complained about advice received from Lloyds Bank Plc when taking 
out a whole of life policy in July 1996. They think they were mis-sold the policy by Lloyds as 
they were not told about annual reviews after either of them turned 70 years of age. They 
said, if they had known about this, they wouldnt have taken out the policy. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A took out a whole of life policy after taking advice from Lloyds in July 1996. 
The policy was set up on a maximum protection basis, providing joint life cover on a first 
death basis. They initially paid monthly premiums of around £59, and the sum assured was 
£45,900.
Mrs A and Mr A complained to Lloyds saying they werent made aware the policy was 
reviewable annually after they turned 70. They said they were told reviews would be 5 yearly 
up to age 70, at which time the premiums and sum assured would remain stable. They said 
they were not told the full story when they agreed the policy. 
Mrs A and Mr A added that they received documentation in 2017 that stated the premium 
and sum assured were on a level term basis. They said at some point, reviews did not take 
place  which meant they were not aware sooner that the policy was unsuitable. Mrs A and 
Mr A said they want the sum assured to stay the same and the premium of £74.34 to remain 
for the remainder of the policy term.
Lloyds said it was a reviewable whole of life policy that Mrs A and Mr A took out in July 1996. 
It said they applied for the options plan and agreed to set it up on a maximum protection 
basis. It said contractual reviews formed part of the plan. It said life cover becomes more 
expensive as policy holders get older, so reviews need to happen. It said it can see the 
options plan is auto-reviewed every five years and then after age 70 reviews are annual. It 
said it cannot agree that it did anything wrong or the policy was mis-sold. 
Mrs A and Mr A remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service where one of 
our Investigators looked into what happened. The Investigator didnt uphold Mrs A and Mr 
As complaint. He said he could see from the documentation created at the time of sale, that 
Mrs A and Mr A were given information about the reviewable nature of the policy. He gave 
examples from the documentation where this was highlighted. He said Mrs A and Mr A 
signed a financial interview document that showed the reviewable nature of the policy was 
discussed. He said he was satisfied the policy wasnt mis-sold to them. 
 
Mrs A and Mr A disagreed. They said they were fully aware of five-year reviews from the 
date they took the policy out. They said they were also aware the premiums would 
potentially increase, or the sum insured reduce during these reviews. They said their 
complaint is that they were not told about annual reviews once either of them turned 70. 
They said they were led to believe the policy conditions would be stable from this point. Mrs 
A and Mr A said this is supported by documents sent to them in 2017, that state the policy 
was level term. 
Mrs A and Mr A said they did not receive a letter or an options policy pamphlet in 1996 and 
that Lloyds cannot prove they sent these documents. They said it cannot provide proof of 
postage or any other evidence regarding this. They said they were not given any information 
about reviews being on an annual basis from aged 70 and wouldnt have proceeded with the 
policy if they had known this was the case.
So as Mrs A and Mr As complaint hasnt been resolved between the parties, it has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A and Mr A have said reviews after a certain point, didnt take place and that if these 
reviews had happened, they wouldve seen the policy was unsuitable for them sooner. I can 
see this part of their complaint, is being looked at separately so I havent looked into their 
concerns about this any further.
What I have looked into is whether Mrs A and Mr A were mis-sold the whole of life policy 
from Lloyds in 1996. They have said they wouldnt have agreed to have the policy if they 
were made aware there would be annual reviews after either of them had turned 70 years of 
age. So, I have looked into this.
I am not upholding Mrs A and Mr As complaint for the following reasons:
Having read through a financial review document completed by Lloyds, I can see Mrs 
A and Mr A wanted cover and held a need for a whole of life policy. I can see that the 
policy Lloyds recommended to them met that need. This hasnt been in dispute 
between the parties, that the policy was something Mrs A and Mr A wanted. 
The financial review document also mentions the need for a review. I can see under 
section 10.1 First recommendation that this is mentioned along with the possibility of 
increased premiums or reduced cover. So, it is clear to me, after reading this, that the 
need for reviews was discussed by the parties in July 1996 when they were 
arranging the policy. 
That said, Mrs A and Mr A have said to our service that they were fully aware of the 
need for reviews on their policy. They said they were also aware that the premium 
they were paying would potentially increase or the cover reduce. They have been 
clear about this themselves. What they are complaining about, is about what 
happened when either of them reached 70 years of age. They said they were not 
aware there would be annual reviews at this stage and thought that the reviews 
would stop. They thought the premium and sum assured would stay the same from 
this point going forward. So, I consider this issue to be the crux of their complaint and 
have looked further into this.
Lloyds said it sent a letter with several documents to Mrs A and Mr A on 13 October 
1996. It said it sent a cancellation form, policy conditions, a schedule, a client specific 
documents and a financial appraisal form. It said it sent all this to them around 3 
months after the meeting took place. Mrs A and Mr A on the other hand said they did 
not receive this letter with all the documents Lloyds said it sent. Mrs A and Mr A said 
they agreed and signed papers in the meeting in July 1996 and consider the 
arrangement completed at that stage. So, there is a difference of opinion here 
between the parties. 
Mrs A and Mr A have said Lloyds havent been able to prove it sent the letter and documentation to them. They said it should have been able to provide proof of 
postage or tracking information. Lloyds said it sent the letter and documentation on 
13 October 1996, this being around 27 years ago. So, I think it is understandable, 
considering the significant amount of time that has passed, that it wouldnt have 
retained proof of postage in this instance.
I have seen a copy of the letter Lloyds say it sent to Mrs A and Mr A on 13 October 
1996. I have looked carefully through this letter and can see it is dated and 
addressed to Mrs A and Mr A; at the property they currently reside at. Lloyds have 
listed the documentation that it says in the letter were enclosed. I acknowledge Mrs A 
and Mr As comments here that they did not receive the letter or these documents. 
But when I see a copy of the letter and what is said within it, on balance, I think its 
more likely than not Lloyds did send the letter and all the documents to them, at the 
address stated. 
Lloyds has provided a copy of each one of the documents that it says it sent to Mrs A 
and Mr A, that it summarised in the letter and pack I have concluded it sent to them 
in October 1996. One of the documents is entitled Options  product particulars. 
Within this document under point 23, Lloyds states that reviews will take place on an 
annual basis from age 70. It states, once the life insured has attained age 70 then 
the first automatic review will be made on the following policy anniversary and 
annually thereafter.   
Mrs A and Mr A have said they were told the reviews would continue up to age 70 
and then would remain stable. Lloyds on the other hand states its adviser would have 
told Mrs A and Mr A that reviews would be on an annual basis from age 70. I cant be 
sure what was said in the meeting between the parties in July 1996. But the 
documentation that Lloyds said it sent to Mrs A and Mr A, does state that reviews will 
take place on an annual basis from age 70. So, I am persuaded after seeing this that 
Mrs A and Mr A were informed of this when they signed up to having the policy and 
were made aware of this by Lloyds. 
Mrs A and Mr A say Lloyds had different versions of some of the documentation and 
the options document. But I need to consider the documents Lloyds said it sent to 
Mrs A and Mr A. And within the Options document it said it sent, that it says was 
used at the time, annual reviews from age 70 was stated, as I have outlined above. 
Mrs A and Mr A also say they were given documentation from a third party in around 
2017 that they said stated the premium they needed to pay, and the sum assured 
was level term. They say this confirmed for them that their thinking was correct, and 
the policy would continue at a stable amount without reviews, because they had 
reached the required age. I have only considered here what Lloyds did, and, when 
Mrs A and Mr A arranged the cover in 1996. I have looked into whether they were 
mis-sold the policy or not when it was arranged. After looking through the 
documentation from both parties, and for the reasons I have given, I dont think they 
were. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs A and Mr A, and I acknowledge 
the strength of their feelings about what has happened here. But based on everything I have 
read and the findings I have given I dont think Lloyds mis-sold them the whole of life policy 
in 1996. It follows that I dont uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman