DRN-3897907
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Cambrian Associates Limited (CAL) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a new personal pension arrangement. He says the advice was unsuitable for him 
and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from 
the company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). The PPF acts as a lifeboat for 
insolvent DB pension schemes, paying compensation to members of eligible schemes for 
their lifetime. The compensation levels are, generally, around 90% of the level of the original 
schemes benefits for deferred pensions. But the PPFs rules and benefits may differ from 
the original scheme. Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed they could transfer 
their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ms employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
On 7 November 2017, the BSPS provided Mr M with a summary of the transfer value of his 
scheme benefits. These benefits had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of 
£77,473.06.
Mr M was concerned about what the recent announcements by his ex-employer meant for
the security of his pension, so he sought advice. Mr M met with CAL towards the end of 
November 2017. CAL recorded some information about Mr Ms circumstances. It noted that 
he was 51, single with two children, one of whom was still dependent. Mr M was employed 
earning approximately £37,000. He had a mortgage on his home of approximately £92,000, 
which had a remaining term of 17 years, although he was looking to reduce the term.
He had an existing personal pension valued at around £25,000 and he had no other assets 
or liabilities. Mr Ms income exceeded his outgoings (£1,605) giving him a monthly surplus of 
around £595. CAL also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk, which it deemed 
to be balanced.
CAL issued a letter summarising its recommendation (a suitability report) on 
21 January 2018. This said Mr M wanted to retire at 65 and achieve an initial income of 
£18,000 a year, which would reduce when his state pension started. It said he wanted to 
avoid the possibility of his fund disappearing if he died young, so he wanted to leave his 
pension fund to his children when he died. 
CAL recommended that Mr M transfer his pension as this would meet his objectives  it 
would provide him with flexibility and the ability to leave his entire fund to his family upon his 
death. CAL recommended a pension provider and fund that it said was in line with his 
attitude to risk. The suitability report also noted that ongoing advice was recommended, 
which would come at a further cost.
Mr M complained to CAL in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed 
received a letter from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) telling him he mightve 
received unsuitable advice, so he wanted CAL to investigate the advice he received. 
CAL didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In summary it said the advice was suitable because
Mr Ms circumstances meant he could afford to take some risks by transferring away; the 
death benefits provided by the scheme were likely irrelevant because Mr M was single and 
his children were almost at the age when they would no longer be deemed financially 
dependent; flexibility was important, which the DB scheme couldnt provide; and his desired 
level of income was sustainable. It also said that an additional consideration was that the 
BSPS2 may not have gone ahead meaning the likelihood of Mr Ms benefits falling into the 
PPF could have increased preventing a further transfer and the ability to flexibly access his 
benefits later on.
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr M asked us to consider his complaint. He said he feels that 
transferring his pension to a defined contribution arrangement might not have been right for 
him. 
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. They thought the advice was unsuitable. 
They said it wasnt clear how Mr Ms objective of retiring at 65 on £18,000 a year was arrived 
it. They said CAL didnt carry out an income and expenditure in retirement analysis and there 
was good reason to delay a transfer until his needs were better understood. They said CAL 
also didnt appear to have carried out analysis of whether Mr M could meet his income need 
without transferring. They said it was possible that his needs couldve been met by retaining 
his DB scheme, which he couldve supplemented using his state pension and his workplace 
and existing personal pension. But they also said that if it wasnt realistic for Mr M to achieve 
this target income, CAL shouldve told him so. 
They expressed concern about how Mr Ms attitude to risk was deemed balanced given the 
inconsistent answers in the assessment and his lack of any investment experience. And 
given this and his capacity for loss, they said he was better off retaining his DB benefits. 
They said the potential for greater lump sum death benefits wasnt worth Mr M giving up his 
guaranteed pension for. And any concerns Mr M had about his DB scheme given the 
general uncertainty at the time shouldve been managed objectively. They said the transfer 
wasnt financially viable given the required investment returns needed to match Mr Ms DB 
scheme benefits  something the adviser accepted  and improved flexibility and better 
death benefits didnt make up for this. They said if suitable advice had been given to remain 
in the DB scheme Mr M wouldve likely followed it and chosen to join the BSPS2.
While CAL indicated that it disagreed with the Investigators findings and it intended to 
provide a response, it hasnt done so.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.Before issuing my final decision, I clarified to both parties that, while the Investigator had 
also considered the advice Mr M received to switch an existing personal pension to the new 
personal pension arrangement, because Mr M had told us he wasnt complaining about this, 
my decision would only deal with the advice to transfer out of the BSPS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CAL's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, CAL should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The transfer value analysis (TVAS) report, that CAL was required to carry out by the 
regulator, said that the critical yield - how much Mr Ms pension fund would need to 
grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his DB scheme  was 
9.84% to match the full pension hed have been entitled to under the scheme at age 
65. Or to match the maximum tax-free cash and reduced pension the scheme would 
provide at that age, was 8.3%. To match the full pension the PPF wouldve paid from 
65 the critical yield was 7.6% and to match the tax-free cash and reduced pension 
the PPF wouldve offered, it was 7.17%.Despite the fact it was known by the point CAL instructed the TVAS that continuing in 
the BSPS in its existing form wasnt an option for Mr M, the analysis was based on 
the BSPS benefits. Furthermore, the analysis was carried out after the time to 
choose deadline of  22 December 2017. So, at this time, the only relevant 
comparison of benefits was technically the PPF (unless Mr M had chosen to opt into 
the BSPS2 before the deadline, which doesnt appear to be the case here.) But given 
the timing of its fact-find meeting of 27 November 2017 and the looming time to 
choose deadline, I think CAL ought to have prioritised its analysis and advice to 
meet this deadline and in doing so produced analysis based on the benefits available 
to Mr M through the BSPS2. Ive seen no evidence to persuade me that it couldnt 
have met this deadline. But even if it couldnt, I think at the very least it shouldve 
advised Mr M to opt into the BSPS2 - if only as a precaution before it concluded its 
formal recommendation. I think it had sufficient information about Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives at this stage to make a judgement that, on balance, 
this would be more favourable to Mr M than the PPF.
In any event, given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to 
match the benefits the BSPS2 wouldve provided from age 65 were likely to be 
between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Given Mr Ms recorded balanced attitude to risk, the discount rate of 4.1% for 13 
years to retirement and the regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr M was 
always likely to receive pension benefits, from age 65, of a lower value that those 
hed have been entitled to under the BSPS2 or the PPF by transferring and investing 
in line with that attitude to risk. And given what the TVAS noted about the critical 
yields for retirement at 60  that these were significantly higher and in double digits  
I think he was even more likely to receive lower benefits than either the BSPS2 or the 
PPF offered, if he retired early. And indeed the suitability report noted that In
my opinion, this would be not an achievable return, based on the term to retirement
I do have some concerns about how CAL assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk as 
balanced. Given his age, coupled with the fact he had no other investments or 
savings and so his capacity for loss was low, I think his circumstances more 
reasonably portrayed someone who was only prepared to take a low or cautious 
approach to risk. And while it was recorded that Mr M said in answer to how he felt 
about risk:  I appreciate that risk is required in order to try and achieve a fund which 
will allow me to retire early"  I think an appreciation that investment risk was required 
is different to a willingness to take it. Im not persuaded what Mr M said demonstrates 
his willingness to take a balanced risk approach. But in any event, this doesnt 
change my decision. Because even if I accept he was truly prepared to invest in line 
with a balanced attitude to risk, as I concluded above, he was still likely to be worse 
off in retirement as a result of transferring to a personal pension arrangement. So, for 
this reason alone, I dont think it was in his best interests to transfer.
CAL recommended the transfer to enable Mr M to have flexibility  the ability to take 
the income he needed at 65 and reduce it once his state pension became payable. 
But I dont think Mr M had a real need for flexibility and a strong need to vary his 
income throughout his retirement. I think CALs reference to flexibility was simply a 
product of transferring to a different arrangement. Mr M might have been attracted to 
the flexibility a personal pension provided  but his objective of wanting to reduce his 
income when his state pension became payable was in my view solely driven by the 
fact that this was the only way CAL could demonstrate that Mr Ms pension fund was sustainable throughout his life. This this does not, in my view, demonstrate a genuine 
need for flexibility.
In any event, Mr M already had flexibility. He was contributing to his workplace 
pension scheme  a defined-contribution (DC) scheme which already provided 
flexibility in how and when he could access his benefits. 18% of Mr Ms salary was 
being invested here. And according to CALs analysis, this could be worth around 
£127,000 when Mr M reached 65. I think this wouldve given Mr M flexibility  the 
ability to take lump sums and vary his income - if thats what he ultimately required. 
So I dont think transferring to obtain flexibility was in his best interests. 
Mr M said  he wanted a retirement income of £18,000 a year. But CAL doesnt 
appear to have carried out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement analysis 
to interrogate this amount  the budget planner it completed was based on his 
current spending. I think this wouldve been helpful to determine how realistic this 
figure was, particularly given Mr Ms annual pension under the existing scheme at 65 
was estimated to be around £5,200. I think his target income looks ambitious given 
the means he had to try and achieve it. And I think CAL shouldve been honest with 
him so he could re-assess things. It appears CAL may have done this to some extent 
 the fact-find for example recorded that Mr M wanted to retire at 60 on an income 
£18,000, but the later suitability report only talked about him retiring at 65. But I think 
it couldve done more. And just because Mr Ms DB scheme income wasnt going to 
meet his needs doesnt mean it was in his best interests to transfer out to try and 
achieve things.
I think in the circumstances Mr M stood a better chance of meeting his needs by 
remaining in his DB scheme. It provided a guaranteed and escalating income for life, 
which wasnt going to be bettered by transferring. I think it provided a solid income 
foundation upon which his DC pension and existing personal pension could 
supplement together with his state pension. Mr M had a not insignificant disposable 
monthly income, which he could also use to accumulate a savings fund during the 
years to retirement to further support his future income need. In the circumstances, 
I think this was a more appropriate way for Mr M to meet his future retirement income 
need rather than risking his guaranteed benefits to try and do so.
Mr M was keen to be able to leave his pension fund to his family upon his death 
rather than have an unused spouses pension. But while I accept Mr M was single at 
the time, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it wouldve also 
been reduced by the income Mr M drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr M may have thought it would. 
Mr M was contributing to his workplace pension, which wouldve provided lump sum 
death benefits to his nominated beneficiaries. But if Mr M had genuinely wanted to 
leave a legacy for his family, CAL couldve explored life insurance as an alternative. 
I can see reference was made to a whole of life policy, but this was discounted in 
favour of the transfer. But given Mr Ms recorded disposable income, I think he 
couldve met the quoted premium of £39 a month. The alternative of term assurance 
mightve been cheaper still. So, I think this is what CAL ought to have recommended 
to meet this objective.Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. I dont think that insurance was 
properly considered as an alternative. And ultimately CAL should not have 
encouraged Mr M to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through a 
personal pension over his security in retirement.
While not given as a reason for the recommendation, I can see the fact-find referred 
to Mr Ms concerns about his DB scheme and that he didnt want his pension to 
remain under the control of his employer. I accept that Mr M may have legitimately 
held concerns about how his employer had handled his pension and like many of his 
colleagues, he was no doubt concerned about the prospect of entering the PPF. But 
it was CALs role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the fact-find 
meeting, all signs pointed toward the BSPS2 being established. And if things had 
happened as they should have and if CAL had prioritised its advice and properly 
considered the benefits available to Mr M under the BSPS2, I think this wouldve 
addressed some of his concerns. But even if the BSPS2 didnt go ahead, the PPF 
still provided Mr M with a guaranteed and escalating income. Mr M was unlikely to 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ms best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension at this time. And I also havent seen 
anything to persuade me that he wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to remain 
in the DB scheme. Mr M had no real investment knowledge or experience and nothing 
suggests to me that he had the requisite confidence or skill to go against the advice he was 
given, particularly in complex pension matters. So, Im upholding the complaint as I think the 
advice Mr M received from CAL was unsuitable for him.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr M would 
most likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 
if suitable advice had been given and in a timelier manner. 
CAL must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
CAL should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr M and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what CAL based the 
inputs into the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr M has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age (65), as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ms 
acceptance of my final decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CAL should:
calculate and offer Mr M redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr M before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr M receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr M accepts CALs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr M for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ms end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr M as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, CAL may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ms likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cambrian Associates 
Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr M the balance.
If Mr M accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman