DRN-4135580
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Target caused delays issuing them a deed of postponement 
which prevented them from completing on their remortgage. This has resulted in them 
paying more each month for their mortgage due to an increase in interest rates.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W have a help to buy loan. They took out a mortgage and also the help to buy 
loan to part-fund their deposit. 
The help to buy scheme is a government scheme in place to support home ownership which 
is administered by Target. In addition to the usual mortgage from a regular lender, a 
borrower takes a shared equity loan funded by the government to reduce the amount of cash 
deposit that would be otherwise required. Mr and Mrs Ws property is in England, and they 
took the loan out with Homes England, which was formally known as Homes and 
Communities Agency. They are an executive agency and non-departmental public body 
sponsored by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities. Homes England 
lends a percentage of the property purchase price to the borrower to enable them to buy a 
home. 
Mr and Mrs W were looking to change their mortgage lender in order to secure a lower 
mortgage interest rate. They said they had a mortgage agreed with a new lender.
Because the help to buy loan is secured over Mr and Mrs Ws property by way of a second 
charge, their new mortgage lender needed Target to agree to a deed of postponement  so 
that when the old lender removed its charge, the new lender could take first charge ahead of 
the help to buy loan.
Mr and Mrs W said they provided Target with all the relevant information that was needed, 
including their new mortgage offer and solicitor details by 18 July 2022. They said they were 
told by Target that this process would take between four to six weeks to complete. 
Mr and Mrs W said they chased Target on several occasions but were not getting a 
response. They said they also tried to call on numerous occasions but ended up waiting for a 
very long time to get through on the phone. 
Mr and Mrs W said they were conscious that their new mortgage offer was only valid until 27 
October 2022, so they wanted to ensure that they completed before this date to get the 
interest rate they wanted. They complained to Target who couldnt issue a final response 
letter as they said they hadnt had any updates from Homes England so they couldnt give a 
meaningful update  but they were not given any reasons for the delay by Homes England. 
The process didnt end up completing until November 2022 and as a result, and due to the 
interest rates across the market increasing, Mr and Mrs W contacted their existing lender 
and secured a new mortgage interest with them - which was for a much higher rate than they 
would have obtained. 
As Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with the lack of responses from Target and the delay that 
was caused they brought their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint and acknowledged that Target had caused delays 
which meant that Mr and Mrs W ended up paying more for their mortgage then they should 
have. So she asked Target to pay the difference in the interest rate that Mr and Mrs W were 
being charged  against the lower rate they should have had. She asked Target to calculate 
this for two years as the mortgage was for a two-year fixed rate. She also thought that 
Target should pay Mr and Mrs W £250 for the stress and inconvenience they had been 
caused. 
Mr and Mrs W accepted what the investigator had said but Target didnt respond.
Target have since sent out their final response on Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and 
acknowledged there was some delays. So they agreed to refund £115 for the deed of 
postponement fee as well as an additional £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to Mr and Mrs W. 
Our investigator contacted Target and explained that the recommendations she made were 
still in addition to what Target had now offered due to the impact this had on Mr and Mrs W. 
But Target still didnt respond specifically to the opinion of our investigator about how to put 
things right for Mr and Mrs W. So as they havent rejected or accepted what we said, the 
complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what our investigator has said. 
As a regulated entity in administering the loan on behalf of the lender, Target is carrying out 
the regulated activities of debt administration and debt collection.
Under the regulated activities, Target is performing the lender duties, and exercising the 
lenders rights, under the terms of the credit agreement, as well as collecting payments the 
lender is entitled to. In my view this means that Target must do what the lender is required to 
do, and only take steps the lender is entitled to take, while acting on the lenders behalf. And 
as a regulated firm, it has wider obligations to act fairly.
Although the lender is Homes England, they have appointed Target to act on their behalf  
as using the description in the loan agreement  its nominated agent Mr and Mrs W were 
told to deal with Target at all times and Target was presented as being responsible for the 
management and administration of the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that I can take these matters into account when deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. In my view, as the appointed administrator and as a 
regulated entity carrying out regulated activities in their own right, Target is the appropriate 
firm to respond to this complaint. As a regulated entity carrying out a regulated activity, they 
have an obligation to act fairly and reasonably in performing the lender duties.
I dont think there is any doubt here that Target have caused delays for Mr and Mrs W. 
Target have confirmed that they sent the deeds for sealing on 15 July 2022 which should 
have taken four to six weeks to process. But they didnt receive the sealed deeds back until 
21 November 2022  a delay of around 13 weeks. 
Target sent their final response to Mr and Mrs Ws complaint after our investigator had 
looked at it and offered to refund Mr and Mrs W £115 for the fee that they paid and an 
additional £125 for the distress and inconvenience caused. While its good to see that Target 
have acknowledged some of the stress that Mr and Mrs W have been through, this still isnt 
enough to put things right for them. And I think the £250 that our investigator recommended 
is still reasonable, in addition to the amount that Target have now offered. Mr and Mrs W have found this process extremely stressful. They have been paying more for 
their mortgage each month than they intended to, and this has had an impact on them 
financially and personally. They have explained how this has affected them and Target 
needs to recognise this. 
I can see that in their most recent letter to Mr and Mrs W, Target have asked them to provide 
evidence from their mortgage providers to show the difference in the rates they are paying. 
I have seen the mortgage offer that Mr and Mrs W had from their new lender which confirms 
a two-year fixed rate at 2.49%. Had it have not been for these delays; I cant see any reason 
why Mr and Mrs W would not have completed on this mortgage which would have saved 
them money each month. But because they didnt hear back from Target, they worried about 
the rise in interest rates as the mortgage offer had expired, so they secured a new rate with 
their existing lender on 1 November 2022 for 7.38% - which is significantly higher. We have 
also been provided with evidence of this rate change which was also fixed for two years. 
Target sent the deeds for sealing on 15 July 2022 so taking into account the time it would 
have taken for this process to go through; I think its reasonable to suggest that by 26 August 
2022  which is the maximum six-week period  this mortgage should have completed. So 
Target should refund the difference in the rates from 26 August 2022 for two years from this 
date and refund the difference to Mr and Mrs W. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Target Servicing Limited to:
Calculate the difference in interest payable on Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage of 7.38% 
against the mortgage that they would have obtained on 2.49% in August 2022 up 
until August 2024. Target should then pay the difference in total interest over that 
period to Mr and Mrs W. 
Pay Mr and Mrs W £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to the 
amount that they have since paid them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman