DRN-3149447
The complaint
Mr S says that following the transfer of his pension to Hartley Pensions Limited (HPL) it was 
responsible for several administrative failings and this caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr S says he had been a client of Greyfriars Asset Management, but that firm had run into 
problems and his account was transferred to HPL. Following this move hed been 
dissatisfied with the service hed received.
Mr S complained to HPL in June 2020 about several matters, including:
- An incorrect pension valuation issued in January 2019, which omitted a significant 
element of his funds.
- A failure to follow an instruction in November 2019 to move £100,000 from his 
current account to an alternative offering interest.
- An incorrect pension payment to which incorrect tax coding details were applied in 
January 2020.
- A failure to follow an instruction in January 2020 to pay an investment which had 
matured into the correct account.
- Fees being charged without an invoice being provided.
Mr S also advised HPL on 8 July 2020 that he would be moving to a different provider.
HPL responded to Mr Ss complaint in August 2020. It upheld his case and concluded by 
saying:
Please accept our most sincere apologies for the errors that have occurred and be assured 
that they will be discussed at length with the Greyfriars Team Leader and our Operations 
Team. I would like to offer you the following by way of compensation; the transfer out will not 
be charged, the £300 fees taken in May will be refunded and for the trouble and distress this 
has caused you a payment of £250 which can be paid directly to you or in to your SIPP 
ahead of the cash transfer out.
While HPL had addressed some of the impacts its failings had on Mr S, he wasnt satisfied 
with its compensation. For example, although accepting that it shouldve moved £100,000 of 
his funds to an interest bearing account in November 2019, it hadnt offered anything for the 
interest hed lost.
Further, Mr S says he experienced more delays and errors during the transfer of his holdings 
to a new provider. While at the time of approaching this Service most of his funds had been 
transferred, some matters remained outstanding, for example there was still a small Bank of 
Ireland investment where funds hadnt been moved, despite being told many times the 
transfer would be going ahead. Because of this his Self-invested Pension Plan (SIPP) had to 
remain open and he incurred costs. He didnt think this was fair.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint. She noted that HPL had an opportunity to provide 
its business file but hadnt supplied any evidence. She based her view on the information 
that was available and concluded it needed to increase its redress to Mr S. Both parties 
agreed with the Investigators conclusions.
My understanding is that HPL has failed at this point to put matters right as agreed. So Mr 
Ss complaint has been passed to me for a decision in order to formalise matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Its unusual for a firm to fail to make its case and provide information. Ive tried to ensure this 
hasnt placed it at a disadvantage, but obviously this Service must rely on the evidence 
available to it. Its also highly unusual for a business to accept the informal recommendations 
of an Investigator and then to fail to implement those provisions.
My decision is formal and it is final. If Mr S accepts the outcome Ive arrived at it will be 
legally binding on HPL and enforceable.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Theres little value in rehearsing the findings and conclusions of the Investigator. Both 
parties were in agreement with her recommendations. HPL had already accepted that it got 
things wrong in the final response it sent to Mr S. It didnt dispute any of the material points 
he raised with it. Since then further problems have arisen with the transfer out of Mr Ss 
pension funds to a new provider.
The Investigator said HPL would need to increase the compensation it made for its initial 
failings, where matters hadnt been redressed properly; and to cover costs arising where 
these resulted from unreasonable delays to the transfer of his funds enabling the closure of 
his old SIPP. She also awarded interest. HPL has responded to this Service accepting the 
award made.
Putting things right
So, confirming the position already agreed by both parties, I require Hartley Pensions 
Limited to:
- Calculate lost interest at the appropriate rate on the £100,000 investment it failed to 
move to the required interest-bearing account. This should be from the point of Mr 
Ss instruction until he gave notice of his change of provider on 8 July 2020. To this 
sum it will need to add interest of 8% simple a year from 9 July 2020 until it settles.
- Complete the transfer of any outstanding funds from Mr Ss old SIPP into his new 
arrangement without delay. It needs to refund any charges as agreed in the its original response to him, as well as any charges arising due to the unreasonable 
delay in him being able to close his old SIPP (such as the fee in May 2021 for 
£406.12). To this sum it will need to add interest of 8% simple a year from when the 
charges were paid until it settles.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman