DRN-4107387
The complaint
Mr B complains that esure Insurance Limited declined his claim on a motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a powerful hatchback car, first 
registered in 2014.
In July 2022, Mr B had the car insured with esure, including for theft.
Mr B reported to esure that someone had stolen the car on about 17 July 2022.
Mr B gave esure one key to the car. 
Mr B complained to esure that it was taking too long, and it should meet the claim.
In late December 2022, esure got a report on the key. 
In about January 2023, esure declined the claim.
By a final response dated February 2023, esure turned down the complaint.
Mr B asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that 
esure had correctly declined the claim.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He used the key in the car. That night someone stole the car. He sent esure that key.
The claim went on for months.
He is left in debt and black-listed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common practice for a motor insurance policy to exclude a claim for theft of a vehicle 
which had been left unattended with the keys in it.
In Mr Bs case, esures policy terms included the following:
We wont pay for any loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if the keys, 
lock transmitter or card from a keyless entry system are left in or on your car while it 
is left unattended. 
Separately, I wouldnt find it unfair or unreasonable for an insurer to turn down a theft claim 
where the remaining physical evidence wasnt consistent with the policyholders report of the 
circumstances of the theft.
Mr B reported that he used the car and parked it near his home, but it wasnt there the next 
day.
As I would expect, esure investigated the number and whereabouts of the key fobs for the 
car. 
Mr B only produced one fob. 
I accept that it took several months for esure to conclude its investigation. But I havent seen 
enough evidence to say that esure was responsible for unreasonable delay.
In December 2022, a report on that key said that it didnt record any use since 10 July 2022. 
That was a week before the reported theft. So esure inferred that there had been another 
key in more recent use. 
Im satisfied that esure had done enough to consider all possibilities of what mightve 
happened, before deciding that Mr Bs version of events wasnt in line with the key evidence. 
So I dont find that esure treated Mr B unfairly by turning down his claim and his complaint.
I accept Mr Bs statement that he is left in debt. I accept that esure is likely to have recorded 
that it declined Mr Bs claim. However, I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct esure to 
pay the claim or to do any more in response to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct esure Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman