DRN-3784200
The complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) was irresponsible to lend to him as the loan 
was unaffordable.
What happened
L2G agreed a loan of £420 for Mr B in February 2022. He owed £1,554 in total, to be repaid 
at £86 a month over 18 months (all figures rounded).  
Mr B made six loan payments, though not all on time, before making a complaint to L2G in 
July 2022. He said L2G was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him because the loan 
was unaffordable, and the interest rate was too high. He said hes missed payments on his 
existing financial commitments and been unable to meet some of his basis living costs. Mr B 
sent his bank statements from the time to L2G.
L2G didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It reviewed his application again alongside the bank 
statements and found no evidence of financial detriment. It said that although Mr B was 
using his overdraft this wasnt a reason to decline to lend to him, and that he was made 
aware of the interest rate prior to accepting the loan. L2G offered to reduce the outstanding 
balance on Mr Bs loan by a third (from £1,036 to £639) as a gesture of good will in order to 
resolve the complaint. It later offered to reduce the balance by half (to £469).
Mr B referred his complaint to us. Our investigator recommended that the complaint be 
upheld because L2G should have seen from the information it had that Mr B was having 
difficulty with his finances. Mr B had defaults on his credit file and a significant amount of 
existing debt. They concluded that the loan was unlikely to be affordable for him. L2G didnt 
agree with this recommendation and asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to 
review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set out in 
its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as L2G, need to abide by. L2G 
will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I 
wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them where 
appropriate. 
Before entering into the credit agreement, L2G needed to check that Mr B could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means for the term of the loan. This means he should 
be able to make his repayments without having to borrow further, while meeting existing 
commitments and without experiencing adverse consequences. The checks L2G carried out 
needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) 
and to Mr Bs particular circumstances.
The overarching requirement was that L2G needed to pay due regard to Mr Bs interests and 
treat him fairly. CONC 2.2.2G(1) gave an example of contravening this as targeting 
customers with regulated credit agreements which are unsuitable for them by virtue of their 
indebtedness, poor credit history, age, health, disability or any other reason.
With this in mind, my main considerations are did L2G complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs application to satisfy itself that he would be 
able to make his repayments without experiencing adverse consequences? If not, what 
would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, ultimately, did L2G make a fair 
lending decision? 
Having considered everything carefully, I am upholding Mr Bs complaint. I appreciate that 
this will be very disappointing for L2G and Ive explained below how Ive reached this 
conclusion. 
L2G carried out an income and expenditure assessment when Mr B  applied for his loan - it 
recorded his monthly income as £2,200. L2G said that it used a credit reference agency to 
verify Mr Bs bank account and check that the income he declared matched what was on his 
bank statements, on average. L2G said that it seemed Mr B received a minimum of about 
£2,195 a month so it relied on this figure in its assessment. L2G says it used information 
from the Office of National Statistics to estimate Mr Bs expenses and checked his credit file. 
It estimated Mr Bs total monthly expenses to be about £1,889 which, it said, left him enough 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments of £86.
L2G provided the credit file information it relied on and Ive reviewed this. It shows that Mr B 
had the following unsecured debts: five credit or store cards with a combined balance of 
£3,752 out of a total £3,900 limit; a loan balance of £343 with monthly payments of £49 and 
a current account utilising £3,631 out of a £5,000 overdraft. Mr B also had a mortgage  with 
payments of £182 a month and a flexible mortgage account utilising £4,147 out of a £4,150 
limit. Mr Bs file showed some defaults from 2019 and 2020  two short terms loans which 
were settled and one credit card debt of £5,761, which hadnt been.
As mentioned, L2G has now seen Mr Bs bank statements (covering the 11 December 2021 
to 10 March 2022) and remained of the view that the loan was affordable and the payments 
sustainable for the loan term. It said in response to our investigators view that the defaults 
seen on Mr Bs credit file were historic and not relevant to this lending decision. It also said 
that, while there may have been a significant amount of existing credit, it was within limits 
and there wasnt any adverse information reported about these accounts. 
I havent seen a breakdown of the expenses figure of £1,889 and so I dont know what L2G 
estimated as Mr Bs living costs or his debt repayments. It would seem from Mr Bs credit file 
that he had over £13,000 of revolving credit debt, at least, alongside his loan and might need 
to pay a significant amount of his income in order to repay this within a reasonable period of 
time. In addition, Ive noted that Mr B was almost up to his limits on his credit (or store) cards 
and that his (declared) income didnt clear his current account overdraft. 
As L2G will know, it needed to have regard to information of which it is aware at the time 
which may indicate that a customer is in, has recently experienced, or is likely to experience, 
financial difficulty. I think there were indications in the information L2G had that Mr B was 
reliant on credit, and so might not be able to meet his repayments for this loan without 
borrowing further or experiencing adverse impacts on his finance. 
Furthermore, I dont think a more in depth check of Mr Bs circumstances at the time would 
have provided any reassurance to L2G. Ive also reviewed Mr Bs bank statements and dont 
agree with L2Gs positive view of this information. Ive noted that Mr Bs wages were lower than L2Gs sense-check suggested and were variable, ranging from £1,300 in December to 
£1,900 in January 2021. There were other deposits and transfers in from individuals but 
these were repaid or spent immediately on one-off purchases. That aside, the statements 
show that Mr B was borrowing from short-term lenders and had at least three loans 
outstanding when L2G agreed this loan for him. They also show returned direct debits, for 
example for several debt repayments in January 2021. Mr B had almost reached his 
overdraft limit of £5,000 in February and, it seems, would have exceeded it had he not taken 
out this loan. He went on to take out two more short term loans (for £800) in the weeks after. 
In summary, I dont think L2G treated Mr B fairly or with due regard to his interests when it 
agreed to lend to him on the basis of the information it had. I think further information, by 
way of bank statements, for example, would have confirmed that Mr B was having difficulty 
with his finances at the time and wasnt likely to be able to meet his repayments for this loan 
without borrowing further. Ive concluded that L2G was irresponsible to have agreed to lend 
to him on this occasion and it needs to put things right for him as Ive set out below. 
Putting things right
I understand that Mr B has now repaid more than the capital he borrowed. In this case, I 
think its fair that the capital repaid (£420) should remain with L2G, but I dont think Mr B 
should pay any interest, fees or charges on this loan, which Ive found to have been 
irresponsible given. 
In summary L2G should:
Cap the amount Mr B needs to repay at £420; and
Consider all payments, including any fees, Mr B made as payments towards this 
capital amount; and
oIf Mr B has paid more than this (which I think is the case here) then L2G 
needs to refund these overpayments to him along with 8% simple interest per 
annum* from the date of payment to the date of settlement of this complaint. 
In this case L2G needs to remove any negative information about this loan 
from Mr Bs credit file; or
oFor completeness, if it transpires that after the above calculations Mr B has 
not yet repaid the capital, then L2G needs to treat Mr B fairly and with 
forbearance and due consideration regarding his outstanding capital balance. 
This may mean coming to an affordable repayment plan with him. Once the 
loan capital has been repaid, then L2G should remove any negative 
information about this loan from Mr Bs credit file. 
*HMRC requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about Loans 2 Go 
Limited and it needs to take the steps outlined to put things right for him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman