DRN-3615902
The complaint
Mr G complains about the way that NewDay Ltd dealt with his applications for credit cards 
and the dealings with his accounts.
What happened
Mr G applied for three credit cards with NewDay, along with a number of credit limit 
increases over the course of three and a half years. These were as follows:
Credit card 1 (Aqua):
Date Credit Limit
May 18 (issued) £450
Jan 19 £1,000
Nov 21 £1,750
Credit card 2 (Amazon):
Date Credit Limit
Oct 18 (issued) £500
Oct 18 £750
Mar 19 £1,500
Sep 21 £2,000
Credit card 3 (Fluid):
Date Credit Limit
Nov 21 £1,200
Mr G advised NewDay on 4 October 2021 that he was having difficulty making the payments 
towards the credit cards and had gambling problems. 
NewDay reviewed his accounts and put a hold on credit cards 1 and 2. After reviewing his 
complaint NewDay agreed that credit card 3 shouldnt have been issued and that the credit 
limit to credit card 1 shouldnt have been increased in November 2021. It refunded the fees 
charged on that credit card after the second credit limit increase. No fees or charges had 
been incurred in respect of credit card 3. Mr G enquired about a medical write-off for the 
accounts and he was supplied with the necessary forms by NewDay. He was unhappy 
however that NewDay told him there would still be a default logged against his credit record 
when hed understood the accounts would be marked as settled.
Mr G was unhappy and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. He didnt think 
that NewDay had dealt fairly with him in respect of his gambling addiction, He also said 
NewDay failed to keep him updated once he made them aware of his circumstances and 
with his complaint.
Our investigator said he was satisfied that NewDay had acted fairly and reasonably given 
the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
suspending the credit cards
Mr G believes that NewDay shouldnt have suspended all three credit cards when he 
advised it of his difficulties. As Mr G had notified NewDay of his gambling and mental health 
problems, I think suspending the credit cards was a reasonable and proportionate response.
NewDay is entitled under the terms of the credit cards to do this, if keeping the cards active 
would have presented a risk that Mr G would have been unable to repay further credit. 
Having accepted his gambling addiction, and Mr G having enquired about writing off the 
accounts I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect NewDay to provide further 
credit.
the service provided
Mr G complains that NewDay didnt keep him updated once hed enquired about a medical 
write off, and didnt keep him updated subsequently about his complaint. Ive noted that Mr G 
spoke with NewDay on 4 October 2021 when he first advised it of his gambling problem, and 
enquired about a medical write-off. He was sent the forms and although I note that he made 
subsequent calls to NewDay, I think it had taken what action it could after the call in October. 
It was still awaiting fir his forms which he eventually decided not (at least up until now) to 
return.
Strictly speaking how a business handles a complaint is not a regulated activity so I dont 
have any power to consider that aspect. I do note in any event that Mr G complained on 20 
November 2021 and received a response by 23 December 2021, well within the 8 weeks 
allowed by the regulations to respond to a complaint.
financial difficulties
There are three elements to this, firstly whether NewDay should have issued the credit cards 
in the first place, secondly whether it should have increased the credit limits on the cards 
and thirdly whether it should have taken further steps on learning of his gambling and mental health problems. I understand that Mr D feels he had to make a complaint of irresponsible 
lending in order to get the fees and charges reduced or waived.
In respect of credit card 1 Mr G said in his application that he had a gross annual income of 
£6,000, and £100 in unsecured debt. He had no defaults, no adverse public records, no 
payday loans, and no accounts in arrears. He was issued with a card with a credit limit of 
£450. In light of the modest amount of credit given I Think NewDays checks were 
proportionate and it acted fairly in providing the card.
In respect of credit card 2 he declared a gross annual income of £10,000, access to his 
partners income of £1,397 a month net, and had debts of £400. The checks revealed no 
other adverse information, so I think it was reasonable of New Day to issue the card.
With regard to credit card 3, clearly this shouldnt have been issued. Having already 
suspended his other two cards and also noting his unsecured debt had jumped to £4,700 its 
difficult to understand how this met NewDays acceptance criteria. NewDay also said it didnt 
take into account personal and health circumstances in the application process. I would 
strongly suggest that it should if aware of them. As NewDay has already upheld Mr Gs 
complaint concerning this card, and as no fees or other charges have been incurred on the 
card, I wont take any further action.
In respect of the credit limit increases on cards 1 and 2, I note that Mr G maintained his 
accounts well and paid the monthly minimum payment or more on each card. I also 
understand that it was Mr G who asked for the credit limit increases.
In respect of credit limit increases NewDay says:
As part of our commitment to responsible lending, we regularly review how our customers 
are using their accounts, along with how they are managing their other credit commitments 
and make risk-based assessments to ensure we are lending appropriately. This type of 
review may result in either an increase or decrease to the credit limit.
Mr Gs accounts, as Ive said appear have been well maintained. The two cards he used 
appear to have been used for retail products and there is no indication of gambling activity 
on either card. There were some cash withdrawals though again as the cards were well 
maintained I cant see that this would have raised any issues with NewDay about Mr Gs 
financial circumstances. So, it would appear that NewDay followed its acceptance criteria in 
agreeing to the credit limit increases on the two cards.
This is with the exception of the limit increase applied in November 2021 to credit card 1. 
Clearly at that stage NewDay would have been aware of the suspension of the cards so its 
difficult see why it agreed an increase in the limit. I would suggest it reviews its procedures 
to ensure this doesnt happen again. As it has upheld Mr Gs complaint concerning these 
increases and as it has already refunded the fees charged in this respect I wont take any 
further action.
fees charged
I understand that Mr G is seeking a refund of the fees charged for cash withdrawals and was 
advised to make a formal complaint to get this done. However, I dont think the application of 
a fee for cash withdrawals is unreasonable and is something that applies to most credit card 
providers. And, as Ive noted, there was nothing from the way Mr G ran his credit cards 
accounts to indicate that he may have been having gambling problems (until he told 
NewDay). So I dont think it was unreasonable for NewDay to apply those fees to his accounts. Ive noted it refunded the fees charged on credit card 1 after he notified it of his 
problems.
adverse credit record
I understand that Mr G has been told that even if NewDay wrote off the balances on his 
cards for medical reasons it would still record a default on his record. Mr G hasnt applied for 
the write-off as yet. The position is that both cards are suspended with the interest frozen 
which means that effectively NewDay wont be pursuing Mr G for the balances. If a business 
is at fault for adverse information appearing on a customers credit file we can order it to 
remove that information. But as the cards at present remain suspended, I cant fault NewDay 
for recording that. If Mr G does decide to apply for the balances to be written off for medical 
reasons we could only look at the situation as it applied at the time. I cant require NewDay 
to take further steps or ask it to do something about a future event which hasnt yet 
happened without knowing the precise situation at the time. So I cant require NewDay to 
amend its credit record.
overall
Overall, apart from the two instances of issuing one credit card and increasing the credit limit 
on the other, I think that NewDay has acted reasonably. So I wont be asking it to take any 
further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman