DRN-3868862
The complaint
Mr M has complained about Ageas Insurance Limited trading as Ageas decision to decline a 
theft claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In October 2021 Mr M reported his car as stolen to his insurer Ageas. He told Ageas he had 
both sets of keys with him at the time of the theft. 
Ageas investigated the claim and asked Mr M to send it both sets of keys. On analysis of the 
keys it found that one key with fob belonged to Mr Ms car. But the second fob with key 
didnt. The second fob matched a newer model of car to Mr Ms stolen car. However, both 
key blades matched. And so Ageas was of the view that there had been an attempt to 
deceive it. There were different fobs but the key blades were the same to give the 
appearance of being for the same vehicle. 
Ageas declined Mr Ms claim for the theft of his car. 
Our Investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably and so didnt recommend Mr Ms 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M didnt agree. His representative says a couple of weeks before the car was stolen, 
somebody came to view the car as Mr M had advertised it for sale. He says the potential 
buyer asked to see both keys and the representative believes they must have swapped them 
without Mr M knowing. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas as the insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries when investigating a claim to 
decide if its valid. I understand Mr M is unhappy with the length of time Ageas took to decide 
on his claim. But I dont think it caused unnecessary delay. 
Mr M told Ageas in October 2021 that he was visiting his family - which he did from time to 
time - when his car was stolen. He said he had both sets of keys for his car at the time of the 
theft.
When Mr M signed a witness statement in December 2021, under point 16 he confirmed that 
he hadnt intended to sell the car. 
In January 2022 Ageas asked Mr M to provide both sets of keys. The following day Mr M told 
Ageas he had advertised the car for sale in October 2021 - the same month it was stolen. 
Ageas looked for the advert online but couldnt find it. 
Mr M sent two sets of keys. Ageas arranged for the two keys to be forensically examined. 
Ive looked at the key analysis report. The findings were that the first fob matched Mr Ms 
car. And Mr Ms car required the key blade to be in the ignition to start the car. So it wasnt a 
keyless start car.
The second fob wasnt for Mr Ms car. It was for the same make, but was a keyless fob and 
for a newer model, manufactured around a year after the model of Mr Ms car. 
What is significant here is that the key blades matched. Ageas declined Mr Ms claim 
because the difference in the fobs - but not the blades - means the blades were switched to 
give the appearance the keys were for the same car.
In response to the Investigators view, Mr Ms representative sent us a copy of the advert 
from 11 October 2021 as he was able to recover it. We sent this to Ageas. But Ageas said it 
didnt change its decision. 
Mr Ms representative told us that a potential buyer came to view the car for sale about a 
week before it was stolen and asked to see both sets of keys. Mr Ms representative believes 
they must have swapped the keys with the intention of stealing the car at a later date. He 
says Mr M wouldnt have noticed as he didnt need to use the spare fob or key. 
The address Mr Ms car was stolen from was an address Mr M says he visits from time to 
time - not his home address where the car would have been kept. For the blades to be 
switched on a spare key and fob - to give the appearance of being the same key - I think its 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would have needed to hand over the keys to a potential 
thief without supervision for a time in order for a switch of this kind to be carried out without 
him seeing it - therefore effectively handing over control of the car. The onus is on Mr M to 
ensure he takes reasonable steps not to give a thief an opportunity to steal his car. 
So putting all of its concerns together, I think Ageas decision to decline the claim was fair 
and reasonable based on the information available to it. I think there were inconsistencies in 
the information Mr M gave during its investigation. 
When Ageas made its decision to decline Mr Ms claim, it said it would cancel Mr Ms policy 
unless he had another car to insure to replace the stolen one. As Mr M didnt respond with 
details of a replacement car, there was no insurable interest for Ageas and so it cancelled Mr 
Ms policy in May 2022. I dont think it acted unreasonably here and I dont think it owes Mr 
M a refund.
I understand Mr Ms car was recovered in June 2022. Ageas has confirmed there were no 
signs of forced entry to the car. As Ageas didnt meet Mr Ms claim, it is for Mr M to deal with 
the recovery of his car and any associated costs.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman