DRN-3563887
The complaint
Miss N is seeking to recover approximately £11,000 from Santander UK Plc (Santander), 
which she lost from his account as a result of a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Miss N has been the victim of a scam. Miss N met 
someone on an online dating application. They quickly began speaking daily and he made 
her think he had genuine feelings for her. He said he worked in the US military and had done 
so for fifteen years. A few weeks into speaking, he told her that he was having trouble at 
work. He told her that a device had broken and if he did not pay to fix it, he would be in a lot 
of trouble. He told her that he had no access to his banking facilities, and no one else who 
could help him so he asked her if she could loan him some money  which she agreed to do. 
He persuaded her that she could not tell anyone what was going on as it would be 
dangerous for anyone to find out. Over time his story escalated, as did his requests for 
financial assistance. For example, he told her that his boss had found out what had 
happened, and he was in trouble so he would need help paying for a lawyer. He later told 
her he was being detained and needed further funds. He told her that he could repay her 
with funds he had in a safety deposit box, but he needed funds to cover transport, shipping 
fees and insurance. 
Believing him to be genuine, Miss N was persuaded to send him approximately £11,000 
from her Santander account over a three-month period. She also sent him money from 
accounts held with other financial businesses. Most of the payments from her Santander 
account were cash withdrawals, which she then took to an international payment services 
provider. She did make one international bank transfer from her Santander account too. Miss 
N took out a loan and sold company shares to fund some of the payments. 
The scam was uncovered around February 2021 when Miss N ran out of funds to send him, 
and so she approached her sister for help. Her sister said she would not give her any money 
as she thought she had fallen victim to a scam. Miss N was reluctant to admit she had fallen 
victim to a scam, but eventually with the help of her sister and her sisters sons she admitted 
that this was likely the case. Miss N messaged the scammer and asked for her money back, 
but they stopped responding to her messages and unsurprisingly they did not return any of 
her funds to her. 
Miss Ns sister complained to Santander on Miss Ns behalf, who looked into what had 
happened. She accepted Miss N had made the payments herself, but felt that Santander 
could have done more to protect her from the scam. This was particularly so as she 
explained that her sister was vulnerable due to her learning difficulties and other medical 
issues. 
Santander investigated what had happened and didnt agree that they had done anything 
wrong. They said that there was nothing so suspicious about the international payment that 
would make it flag on their fraud monitoring systems and require them to intervene. They 
said that when some of the larger cash withdrawals were made in branch, Miss N had said 
they were a gift for a family member, and they had no reason to doubt what she was saying. 
She didnt give them the real reason for the cash withdrawals, and there was nothing in what 
she said or did in branch that gave them cause for concern. 
Unhappy with this answer, Miss N and her sister came to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. This was because they thought that even if Santander had further intervened with 
any of the payments, they didnt think that they could have stopped the payments. They 
pointed to the difficulty it appeared even Miss Ns family had in persuading her to admit that  
she had fallen victim to a scam. They also felt that Santander had done nothing wrong in 
granting the loan, as the relevant checks were completed and there was nothing to suggest 
that it was unaffordable lending. They said there was no reason to stop the loan just 
because it was her first one or because it was made online. 
Ms Ns sister remained dissatisfied. She said: 
Santander approved a large loan when Miss N was on a low income, and then her 
patterns of cash withdrawals were out of character and should have been flagged as 
unusual. They should have recognised that she may be falling victim to a scam. 
She disagreed that the bank further questioning her sister would not have prevented 
the scam. She said Miss N was scared to admit what had happened to her sister and 
the police, rather than not accepting she had fallen victim to a scam. This fear of 
getting in trouble is what stopped her admitting it was a scam. Her sisters sons had 
to go to visit Miss N to explain it was not her fault and she would not get in trouble. 
She said if they had questioned her enough she would not have made the payments, 
as she scared easily. She said other banks had stopped payments going to the 
scammer.  
They allowed her to withdraw huge amounts of money from a cash point  more than 
she was allowed to on her account when she earns more money. Online loans are 
directed to the bank manager for her account too. She also said Santander should 
have had confirmation of payee in place but they did not when she made the transfer. 
Miss Ns sister thought this was a failing and by law they should refund their 
customers who fell victim to scams whilst this was the case. 
Our investigator agreed that the account activity was unusual and out of character for Miss 
Ns account, but disagreed that further intervention would have prevented the losses. They 
also maintained that there were not affordability concerns around the loan. As no agreement 
could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that I do believe that Miss N was the victim of a callous and cruel 
scam. I was so sad to read of what she was put through. I can tell from the evidence we 
have, and the conversations Miss Ns sister has had with our service that this has had a 
profound impact on her. So, Id like to start by offering my sympathies for what she has been 
put through. 
My role here is to assess Santanders actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Santander liable 
for Miss Ns loss. So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ns 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss N, but I dont think I can 
fairly say that Santander should reimburse her account with the money that was 
unfortunately lost to the scammer. Ill explain why. There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Miss N 
was the victim of a romance scam. She made the withdrawals, payments and transfer 
herself and under the relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, 
Miss N is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But Ive also taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. As such I think 
Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm. Miss N, through her sister, argues that the payments were unusual and out of 
character for Miss Ns account  Santander do not appear to agree. But, I am of the opinion 
that even if Santander had done more to intervene with any of these withdrawals or the 
transfer, it is more likely than not that Miss N would have gone ahead and made the 
payments anyway. I am also not persuaded that they knew, or could have discovered, any 
reason which would lead me to conclude that they should have stopped Miss N making the 
payment and withdrawals altogether. I say this because: 
Santander did speak with Miss N about some of the withdrawals made in branch. 
Whilst we do not have detailed information on the conversations that happened 
between Miss N and Santander at these times, it is clear they asked her about the 
nature and purpose of the withdrawals and went through a scam warning script with 
her. Miss N told Santander that the withdrawals were gifts for family. This was clearly 
not why she was withdrawing the funds  but I think it is most likely she said this as 
the scammer told her that she could not tell anyone what was going on because it 
would be dangerous for them to find out. This is supported by the fact she didnt say 
anything about her situation to her sister and family until she had run out of funds 
later on. Scammers can be very persuasive, and romance scammers are adept at 
preying on peoples feelings and getting them to trust in them. And so I think that 
even if Santander had further questioned her when the payments were occurring, 
she was motivated to conceal the truth of what she thought was going on from them. 
Further to this, the cover story she used is one that was very plausible and hard for 
Santander to recognise the risk in. People take funds out for their family in cash, and 
I cannot see any reason why Santander should not have believed her. Even if 
Santander had asked further questions about this  the nature of the cover story 
means it would be hard to conceive of an appropriate line of questioning that would 
have unveiled the scam. They could have asked her who it was going to, why she 
was giving it to them, and whether they had put any pressure on her to give them the 
cash  but I dont think this would have ultimately made a difference or provided a 
way to prove or disprove that Miss N intended to give this money to family. 
Miss Ns sister raised that other banks had intervened and stopped payments. From the evidence available to me, another financial business did stop some payments but 
let them go once they had spoken to Miss N, or didnt put them through if they were 
not able to speak to her. I am not aware that another bank were able to recognise or 
persuade her that she had fallen victim to a scam. 
So overall, even if Santander had gone much further in their intervention, I do not believe 
they could have prevented the payments going to the scammer. 
I have also considered Santanders efforts to recover Miss Ns losses. Unfortunately, as the 
majority were taken out in cash and then sent on, there was nothing they could do to try and 
recall the majority of the payments. They did send a recall request to the international bank 
that the transfer was sent to  but they didnt receive any response. Unfortunately, this is not 
unusual as international banks are not bound by the same regulations as UK banks  and so 
they are not obligated to respond. So, I think Santander did all that I could expect of them 
here  they requested a return of the funds and they cannot force the receiving bank to 
cooperate. 
Having considered all of this, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Santander 
to refund the money Miss N lost as a result of this scam. I am sorry to disappoint her, as I 
know this has had a significant impact here. But having thought carefully about what 
happened, I think it is the scammer and not Santander who caused the harm here. 
Miss Ns sister has also raised concerns about the loan that Santander gave to Miss N, 
particularly around its affordability. Santander have said that Miss N passed all its credit 
checks and that she had sufficient points on their scoring system to qualify for a loan. She 
had an income, and no adverse credit history that would indicate that she would not be able 
to repay the loan such that she should not qualify for the loan. Miss Ns sister says that 
Santander should have taken account of the fact that the application was made online, and 
she had not applied for a loan before. This would be true of a lot of first time loan applicants, 
and there is no requirement that further checks be done in such circumstances. There was 
nothing that stood out in her financial circumstances that provided Santander with a cause 
for concern  and so I do not consider that there was anything to indicate that the loan was 
unaffordable for her, or that it was irresponsible to lend to her. As a result, I do not think 
Santander need take any further action with regards to the administration or repayment of 
Miss Ns loan. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman