DRN-4412776
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a loan Lendable Ltd (Lendable) provided to her. She says 
that Lendable provided her with an unaffordable loan.
Background
Lendable provided Miss C with a loan for £10,000.00 in April 2019. It had an APR of 18.1% 
and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £13,756.28, which 
included interest, fees and other charges of £3,756.28 (made up of interest of £3,061.28 and 
a loan fee of £695) was due to be repaid in 27 instalments of £263.05 and a final payment of 
£263.05. One of our investigators reviewed what Miss C and Lendable had told us. And he 
thought that Lendable hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint.  
Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Miss Cs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Lendable needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lendable needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss C 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lendable says it agreed to Miss Cs application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search 
it carried out on Miss C. The information Miss C provided about her income and expenditure 
showed shed be able to make the repayments she was committing to. Lendable says, in 
these circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss C has said the loan 
was unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss C and Lendable have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that this was Miss Cs first loan with Lendable. The information provided does suggest        
Miss C was asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and Lendable didnt just 
rely on what it was told. The credit search carried out showed Miss C had a historic default 
from three years prior to the application, which was settled the year before. And at the time 
Miss Cs outstanding debt and what she did have appeared to be reasonably managed.
Bearing in mind the repayment amount and what the credit search showed, its arguable that 
Lendable ought to have found out a bit more about Miss Cs regular living costs. But having 
looked at the information Miss C has provided I dont think that there is anything in it that 
would have led to Lendable declining Miss Cs application. Indeed, on the face of things, 
whats been provided appears to show that when Miss Cs regular living costs are added to 
the credit costs calculated from what was on the credit search the loan repayments appear 
affordable. 
I accept Miss Cs full circumstances may not be reflected in the information Lendable 
gathered or in the information since provided. For example, I know Miss Cs said she had to 
repay a loan or credit card her brother had taken out for her in his name. But Lendable cant 
and wont have known about this to factor it in to its lending decision, as it wont have come 
up in the credit searches it carried out and Miss C didnt volunteer this information either.
Id also add that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances 
where a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lendable did 
anything wrong in deciding to lend to Miss C  although it could be argued that it ought to 
have gathered a bit more information about Miss Cs regular living costs, I dont think this 
information would have made a difference to its decision to lend. 
So overall I dont think it was unreasonable for Lendable to have provided this loan to        
Miss C. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman