DRN-4463223
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from the financial 
harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr H received a marketing email from a company Ill refer to as T, 
introducing themselves as brokers who specialised in cryptocurrency investments. Mr H was 
sent a link to Ts website which featured its T&Cs, and a certificate of its registration with the 
Global Financial Authority (GFA).
Mr H looked T up on Trustpilot and saw it had a three-star rating. There were some negative 
reviews, but after speaking to one of Ts brokers, he was satisfied theyd been posted by 
people who had deposited small amounts and were unhappy with the returns. The broker 
explained T was based in Switzerland and didnt need to be regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). He said fees and taxes would need to be paid before Mr H could 
make withdrawals, and that hed be able to withdraw a monthly dividend when the account 
balance reached £30,000.
The broker advised Mr H to download Anydesk and then purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company before loading it onto an online wallet. Between 15 
February 2021 and 29 April 2021, he made 41 payments to three cryptocurrency exchange 
companies totalling £884,009.38 using a visa debit card and online transfers from his HSBC 
account. Our investigator also concluded that during the scam period Mr H received 
£8,386.62 credits into his account and £141,465 in refunds, meaning the total loss was 
£733,977.76.
When the balance on the trading account reached £16,000,000, Mr H decided to make a 
withdrawal, but the request was rejected. The broker told him hed have pay withdrawal fees, 
which he paid with a directors loan from his company. But once hed paid the fee, Mr H was 
told it had been paid to the wrong person and, when he refused to pay more, he lost contact 
with the broker, at which point he realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr H complained to HSBC arguing it should have had fraud prevention measures in place 
which would have identified the transactions as suspicious and stopped them.
But HSBC refused to refund any of the money hed lost. It said alerts were triggered, but Mr 
H confirmed the payments were genuine, and they were released. It also said investment 
transactions are high risk and customers are expected to carry out their own due diligence to 
enable them to make informed decisions as to whether to proceed with the transactions.
It said several of the larger debit card transactions were referred to its customer care team, 
who warned Mr H the payee companies weren't covered by the FCA and it wouldnt be able 
to refund the payments, yet he was happy to proceed with the transactions.
It also said it had reviewed the documentation Mr H had provided and there was insufficient 
information to raise a misrepresentation chargeback against the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies. And it said the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code wouldnt apply 
to the online transfers because the funds had been sent to an account in his name.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He argued HSBC should have 
had measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud 
such as a sudden increased spending, transfers to other accounts, sudden changes to the 
operation of the account, a withdrawal or payment for a large amount, a payment or series of 
payments to a new payee and financial activity that matches a known method of fraud or 
financial abuse.
He accepted HSBC had provided warnings, but he said there were no further attempts to 
educate him or to discourage him from going ahead with the payments and it could have 
researched T and discovered it was operating a scam, rather than relying on the due 
diligence hed done himself. He said it knew scam companies existed and the kind of 
patterns that should raise alarm bells. And if it had asked for evidence of communication with 
the merchant, it would have realised he wasnt given an investment brochure or information. 
Finally, he said HSBC should have raised a chargeback request on the basis there had been 
a misrepresentation.
HSBC said when Mr H made the first faster payment on 15 February 2021, he confirmed 
that no one had approached him to make the payment and that he wanted to go ahead. It 
said there were a number of conversations about the investment when Mr H was told it 
wouldnt be able to recover the funds if something went wrong and it ultimately suspended 
his online banking in June 2021 and said it wouldnt allow any further payments until he 
provided evidence the investments were genuine.
My provisional findings
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr H says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC had said the CRM code didnt apply in this 
case because the code doesnt apply to card payments or payments to an account in the 
consumers own name, and I was satisfied thats fair.
I thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover Mr Hs payments when he 
reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr H).
Ms Hs own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Hs payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore I was satisfied that HSBCs decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
I was satisfied Mr H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Mr H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I carefully considered the circumstances, and I was persuaded the broker was operating as 
part of a scam. But, although Mr H didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether HSBC could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the 
payments were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, HSBC had 
an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, 
so I needed to consider whether it ought to have done more when Mr H tried to make the 
payments.
HSBC contacted Mr H when he tried to make the first faster payment on 15 February 2021. 
Ive listened to the call, and I agreed with our investigator that he wasnt completely open in 
his responses to HSBCs questions and so it didnt identify that he was at risk of fraud.
Our investigator had also said that payments 2 to 17 werent unusual when compared to the 
usual spending on the account. Ive reviewed the account statements, and I could see there 
was a history of multiple large payments in quick succession after receiving large credits into 
the account. Specifically, Mr H made a transfer of £20,110.08 on 6 November 2020, 
transfers of £23,217.33 and £15,173.36 on 8 November 2020 and transfers of £25,000 and 
£65,000 on 2 December 2020. And based on this activity I agreed with our investigator that 
HSBC need not have intervened until 21 March 2021 when Mr H made a payment of 
£36,000. This is because it was the third consecutive payment in three days which totalled 
£124,000, which was significantly higher than the previous cumulative spend on 2 December 
2020. So, I was satisfied that payment ought reasonably to have triggered an intervention.
I explained that during that call I would expect HSBC to have asked some very detailed 
questions around the purpose of the payments, whether there was a third party involved, 
how he met the third party, whether hed been required to download remote access 
software, whether hed been allowed to make any withdrawals and whether hed been 
promised unrealistic returns. I had some concerns as to whether Mr H would have answered 
truthfully because he wasnt open about the existence of the broker during the call on 15 
February 2021. But based on the fact he told HSBC about T on 27 April 2021, I thought, on 
balance, hed have probably mentioned T. And its likely hed have also mentioned the fact T 
was authorised by the GFA and that he had merchants insurance.
With this information, HSBC ought to have provided a full scam warning, including examples 
of different types of scams. It should also have told him about the FCA warning and the fact 
the GFA didnt exist in the way hed been led to believe. And I would expect it to have explored the issue of insurance, even requiring him to produce a copy in branch, which 
would surely have exposed the fact he wasnt insured.
However, even if HSBC had done all this, I didnt think it would have made a difference to Mr 
Hs decision to go ahead with the payments. This is because, hed known about the negative 
reviews on Trustpilot and the fact T wasnt authorised by the FCA at the outset, but he 
wasnt concerned because hed been given a plausible explanation by the broker about the 
reviews. And he didnt think T needed to be authorised by the FCA because it was based in 
Switzerland. Yet he went ahead with the payments, even after being told about the FCA 
warning, so I didnt accept it would have been any different if HSBC had told him about it 
sooner.
All the available evidence shows Mr H was completely under the spell of the scammer and 
was confident the investment was genuine and as such he was willing to ignore clear 
warning signs. I was satisfied none of the information HSBC might have given to Mr H about 
red flags or cryptocurrency scams would have changed his mind. Critically, HSBC 
suspended his online banking in June 2021 and said it wouldnt allow any further payments 
of this nature until he provided evidence that the investment was genuine, and instead of 
doing further research or taking independent advice, he opened an account with another 
bank and continued to invest a further £561,750.
Significantly, Mr H didnt mention T to the other bank when it intervened in those payments, 
and Id seen messages from Mr H to the scammer dated in August 2021 in which he states 
that his accountant had told him the GFA didnt exist and that it looked like T was operating a 
scam. He continued to make payments from the other account in the face of this advice and 
so it wouldnt have made any difference if HSBC had told him the same thing in March 2021, 
or at any point up to the date it suspended his online banking.
Overall, I thought it was clear that Mr H was happy to take risks with the money he was 
investing, and I was satisfied he was determined to go ahead with the investment 
notwithstanding red flags and warnings that were brought to his attention at various points, 
including concerns from his accountant which he should reasonably have acted on. Because 
of this, I didnt think HSBC missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do 
so might have prevented his loss.
Developments
Mr H has made further comments in response to my provisional decision, including some 
more information about events in the period leading up to the payments, which I wont repeat 
here.
Hes said HSBC are his main bank and he uses the account for all day-to-day transactions. 
Hes explained his normal transactions consist of wages in and credit card payments out, 
with exceptional items including cars and his wifes HMRC and pension. He maintains the 
scam payments were unusual and that HSBC should have intervened as they are the 
experts and had an obligation to protect him.
Mr H says he sent a copies of Ts GFA certificate and T&Cs to HSBC. He accepts his 
accountant told him told GFA didnt exist, but he later said it did exist and was registered in 
Hong Kong. The accountant was also familiar with the trading platform, which had reassured 
him the investment was genuine.
He doesnt agree the returns were too good to be true and has explained that he had no 
concerns at the start of the scam as he had checked the trading platform with an 
independent source. He doesnt accept he was under the spell of the scammer because many of the trades were taken out over an extended period, so couldnt be manipulated 
through day trading. 
He has also explained that the later monies transferred into his trading account were for 
withdrawal fees, rather outright trading, which is when the problems occurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Mr Hs additional comments and the evidence he has submitted, 
but Im afraid the findings in my final decision will remain the same as the findings in my 
provisional decision. I have addressed what I consider to by the main points below.
Mr H has made comments around whether the payments were unusual for the account. Ive 
considered these comments and I maintain my view that payments 1 to 17 werent unusual 
when compared to the normal spending on the account and that HSBC ought to have 
intervened on 21 March 2021.
Mr H has said he sent a copy of the GFA certificate to HSBC, but as I said in my provisional 
decision, I dont think it would have made a difference if it had told him the GFA didnt exist 
because his accountant had already told him that. He accepts his accountant initially told 
him the GFA didnt exist, but hes said he later said it did exist and was registered in Hong 
Kong. I havent seen any evidence that the accountant told Mr H the GFA did exist but even 
if he did, Mr H should have acted on the initial advice that the GFA didnt exist because this 
was a clear sign that his broker was misleading him, and I maintain that his failure to do so 
means its unlikely hed have acted on the same information if given to him by HSBC.
Mr H has said the later payments were for withdrawal fees, rather than outright trading. He 
has also said he checked the trading platform with an independent source and his 
accountant had seen the platform before. As I said in my provisional decision, the available 
evidence shows that he was completely under the spell of the scammer and these points 
support the conclusion that he was confident the investment was genuine to the extent that 
he went ahead with the payments even though hed seen negative reviews on Trustpilot, he 
knew T wasnt authorised by the FCA and hed been told about the FCA warning. This is 
because hed been given a plausible explanation by the broker about the reviews, and he 
didnt think T needed to be authorised by the FCA because it was based in Switzerland. 
Im satisfied Mr H was happy to take risks with the money he was investing, and that he was 
determined to go ahead with the investment notwithstanding red flags and warnings that 
were brought to his attention at various points, including concerns from his accountant which 
he should reasonably have acted on. Because of this, I dont think HSBC missed an 
opportunity to intervene in circumstances when to do so might have prevented his loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman