DRN-3721845
The complaint
Mr M complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank Plc when he lost money to a scam.
Mr M is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr M in the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2022 a third-party added Mr M as a friend on his social media account. After having 
various conversations with Mr M she told him about investing with a merchant Ill refer to 
here as T. Mr M then downloaded an app for a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange and 
started purchasing a cryptocurrency which he then sent to T. 
After realising a trading platform created by T wasnt genuine Mr M raised a claim with 
Lloyds. Lloyds considered the claim but said it wasnt going to refund Mr Ms money. It said 
the payments werent covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) because 
the money was sent to another account in Mr Ms name. And that the payments Mr M made 
didnt appear unusual compared to his previous account activity. Mr M remained unhappy, 
so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that he didnt think the 
payments were unusual compared to Mr Ms previous spending. And the money was sent to 
a crypto wallet in Mr Ms name before being sent on to T. 
Mr M disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said one of the payments 
he made was £5,150 and it was to a high-risk cryptocurrency exchange. So, this shouldve 
been stopped by Lloyds. And if it had the scam wouldve been uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr M authorised the scam payments of around £12,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr M was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for Lloyds to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Lloyds first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr M provides. But if those instructions 
are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect Lloyds to intervene and 
to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing it. Id also 
expect Lloyds to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their customers 
make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There might also be 
cases where its appropriate for Lloyds to refuse to follow the instruction if there are good 
grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr M to Lloyds were unusual 
in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements for the 
twelve months prior to the scam payments, which I consider gives a good sample size to 
assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was typically well managed 
and maintained a credit balance. I note Mr M had made two payments on the same day of 
around £1,000 previously with various other payments in the hundreds of pounds. 
Here, Mr M set up a new beneficiary (the legitimate cryptocurrency platform) and sent £1 
before starting to send payments that were very similar to his usual account spending. He 
then started to increase the payments with a payment of £2,870 being sent before making 
the £5,150 payment. But I dont think the £5,150 payment was so unusual compared to his 
usual account spending by the time it was sent. I appreciate Mr M has said these payments 
were sent to a high-risk cryptocurrency exchange. But that alone isnt sufficient for me to 
consider these to be unusual payments  account usage can change over time. There also 
doesnt appear to be any urgency to the payments leaving the account with the payments 
being made from 09 March 2022 to 30 March 2022. So, by the time the larger payment was 
sent Mr M had established a pattern of spending to a new beneficiary on his account. 
As a result, I dont think the payments were so unusual or out of character that its 
reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have intervened at the time. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds acted reasonably when it was made aware of the scam. I 
cant see that Lloyds attempted to recover Mr Ms funds on this occasion. But because the 
account Mr M sent the money to was in his name, and hes confirmed his funds were 
forwarded to T, its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve been able to reclaim his money here.
In these circumstances I cant conclude the outstanding loss is the fault of Lloyds. To be 
clear, Im not blaming Mr M for the loss  its ultimately the scammer who is to blame. But 
for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think hes been treated unfairly by Lloyds. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman