DRN-2574199
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited declined a claim under his residential 
property owners insurance policy for storm damage to a garden wall.
What happened
Mr K made a claim to Ageas in July 2020 after a garden wall collapsed in a property he lets 
out. He said hed already had the wall repaired as it was dangerous. He sent Ageas an 
invoice for £1,860 and some photos.
Ageas queried the photos as it thought they showed a fence rather than a wall. Mr K said 
thered been a block wall previously which hed replaced with a new fence. Ageas didnt 
agree. It thought thered been a fence there previously which had blown down. It said Mr Ks 
policy didnt cover storm damage to fences.
Mr K sent Ageas another photo showing the block wall before it was damaged. Ageas didnt 
change its decision to decline the claim.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
Mr K had shown the damage claimed for was consistent with a storm or that the storm was 
the main cause of the damage. 
As Mr K didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, when considering a storm complaint, we generally take into 
consideration the following questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?
were the prevailing storm conditions the main cause of the problem?
If the answer to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Based on weather records I accept that there were storm winds in the area of the property 
around the time that the damage came to light. 
Regarding the second question, storm winds often do cause garden walls to collapse. 
Ive looked at whether the storm was the main cause of the damage claimed for. Mr K was 
asked to send Ageas photos showing the damage to the wall. Unfortunately he wasnt able 
to do this. He could only send a photo showing the wall before it was damaged and some 
photos of the new fence. The photos of the new fence show that in the narrow passageway 
behind the fence were some pieces of blockwork and what look like broken fence panels. 
But its not clear from the photos what damage the blockwork wall might have suffered. 
Generally walls get blown over when theyre in an exposed position. In this case the wall 
was at the back of a small yard backing onto a narrow alleyway with another wall on the 
other side. Theres no sign that anything else suffered storm damage.
Under the terms of his policy Mr K was obliged to provide Ageas with full information 
concerning his claim. Since he hasnt been able to show what damage the wall suffered as a 
result of the storm, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to decline his claim. I think its 
fair to say that Mr K hasnt done enough to show that he has a valid claim. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman