DRN-2393910
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) incorrectly placed a Category C 
marker on her car in 2013. And that this has caused her a financial loss.
Im only going to refer to Aviva in my decision but Im talking about all representatives and 
appointed experts working on their behalf.
What happened
In 2013, Mrs D had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. On 4 September 2013, she told 
Aviva that shed been involved in an incident. Aviva logged the details and arranged for her 
vehicle to be repaired. 
On 3 December 2019, Mrs D told Aviva that shed just found out that there was a Category C 
marker recorded against it. Before October 2017, this category was used for written-off 
vehicles which were repairable, but uneconomical to repair. Mrs D said shed tried to sell the 
car for a number of years since the incident. But that she hadnt been able to get a fair price 
for it. She said it was only when she took it to be part exchanged that she found out about 
the marker. 
Aviva investigated and found that a Category C marker had incorrectly been logged. They 
agreed the vehicle had been repaired after the 2013 incident, rather than deemed a total 
loss. So they arranged for the marker to be removed. Aviva confirmed this has been done in 
their final response letter of 13 January 2020. 
Aviva offered £150 compensation and apologised for any distress or inconvenience theyd 
caused. But Mrs D didnt accept this. She felt she was owed compensation for the loss in 
value she felt the marker had caused her vehicle. But Aviva said there was no evidence that 
the marker was the reason the car couldnt be sold at a price Mrs D found acceptable. 
Mrs D didnt agree. So she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. She felt there was no evidence that Mrs D had lost out financially 
because of the error. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said the marker was responsible for the low offers shed received for 
the car. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs D said shed tried to sell her car over the last few years. Shed worked out the price she 
wanted for it by looking at the advertised prices of similar cars. But she couldnt get a buyer 
at the price she felt was fair, so she didnt sell the car. 
But Mrs D hasnt provided any evidence that the offers she got were too low, or that they 
were low because of the marker being on the car. I know it can be difficult to find such 
evidence, but without it I cant on balance of probabilities decide that the marker caused a 
financial loss. I accept its possible the marker did prevent Mrs D from selling her car for a 
fair price. But Id need to see something that made me think the marker probably was 
responsible for that. Unfortunately I havent been provided with enough for that.
Aviva have removed the marker. So it cant have any impact on the value of the car now. But 
Mrs D said she should be compensated for the depreciation her car experienced over the 
years the marker had been in place, given she said she couldnt sell it. 
Unfortunately, I cant ask Aviva to pay financial compensation for the depreciation of a car 
that shes had full use of over the period in question. Cars depreciate with use. So it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to ask Aviva to do anything more unless I could fairly say its 
mistake had stopped her from selling the car previously.
Mrs D said she first found out about the marker when she tried to part exchange the car. But 
she didnt part exchange it because she couldnt get the price she wanted. Im not 
persuaded that there was a loss here. Although it appears that Avivas error stopped Mrs D 
from being able to part exchange her car at that time, she didnt part exchange the car with 
the marker still on it. The marker was removed quickly once Aviva realised their error. So its 
likely that Mrs D couldve arranged a part exchange without the marker fairly soon after she 
realised the issue. So I cant say that there was a financial loss.  
I dont think that Aviva should be held responsible for any potential losses as a result of a 
missed car sale or part exchange, or depreciation over time. This is because Mrs D hasnt 
sold the car, but has continued to use it. And she hasnt shown that she had a firm offer for 
the car that was then reduced because of the marker. So I dont have any evidence that the 
error has caused a financial loss for Mrs D. 
Clearly Aviva made a mistake. It apologised for this and offered Mrs D £150 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by the error. I note that Aviva acted immediately 
to correct the error. I think the offer is reasonable as its in keeping with the level of award 
wed recommend. So I dont think that Aviva should pay her any further compensation, over 
and above the £150 they already offered.
I know this isnt what Mrs D was hoping to hear. But without evidence of the financial loss 
she says shes suffered, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman