DRN-2916641
The complaint
Miss R complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt handle the transfer of a 
Lifetime ISA (ISA) to in a satisfactory way.
What happened
In June 2020 Miss R transferred an ISA which she held with another financial institution to 
Nationwide. For ease of reference Ill call that other institution S in this decision. In July 
2020 Miss R found the funds in the ISA had been removed from her account without contact 
from either Nationwide or S. When she contacted Nationwide, they told her S had requested 
a return of the funds as a mistake had been made when S had failed to deduct a penalty 
payment due to HMRC before making the transfer to Nationwide in June. Miss R contacted 
Nationwide again on 7 and 11 August 2020 as the funds were still not back in her account 
and complained to Nationwide. Miss R then made a number of further calls to both 
institutions to check the whereabouts of her funds and to question what had gone wrong. 
There were periods where the money couldnt be accounted for by either Nationwide or S. 
Nationwide confirmed theyd received the funds back from S on 25 August 2020. They were 
credited to Miss Rs account on 2 September 2020.
Miss R brought her complaint to us. She was unhappy with the service shed received form 
Nationwide once they confirmed theyd received the funds back from S, the amount of time it 
took to credit this to her account and how her complaint was dealt with.
Nationwide said theyd followed the correct process regarding the transfer of funds in the 
ISA. But they accepted their ISA transfer Team, who were working to locate the funds 
Nationwide had returned to S on 23 July 2020, should have sent an SMS to Miss R on 14 
August 2020. Nationwide told us on that day the team had spoken with S who confirmed 
theyd received the payment returning the funds. They said although their team were working 
from home due to the pandemic, so unable to make outgoing calls, an SMS notification 
should have been sent to Miss R to keep her up to date with the process and what was 
happening with her funds. As that didnt happen Nationwide offered a compensatory 
payment of £50 to Miss R for this failing which shed accepted. They set all this out with an 
explanation of what had happened up to that point on 17 August 2020 in a final response 
letter to Miss R.
Our investigator didnt uphold complaint. He thought Nationwide werent the cause of the 
problem that meant funds had to go back to S and, when they were contacted about the 
issue, theyd acted in a relatively timely manner and sent the funds back by CHAPs with no 
apparent errors. He found no evidence that Nationwide were the cause of the delay in the 
funds reaching S, if there was such a delay. He thought although Nationwide hadnt always 
been able to explain what was going on or where the funds were, he felt theyd acted 
reasonably and fairly in their dealings with Miss R. And once theyd received the funds for a 
second time on 25 August 2020, theyd credited them to her account by 2 September 2020, 
some 8 days. That was within the standard industry practice for ISA transfers and, as it 
wasnt Nationwides error that had caused the return of the funds, he thought it was 
reasonable to allow them those normal timescales to process the incoming returned funds.
Miss R didnt agree, she thought Nationwides handling of the situation was unsatisfactory. 
She said although the investigator had said there was no need for her to contact Nationwide 
about the other banks error, had she left it to both banks to communicate this error wouldve 
gone on for a lot longer. She said she was confused about where she could complaint about 
how Nationwide had handled the situation and her complaint and if it wasnt to us she asked 
who she should contact. She asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint which is referred to us. 
We must follow the rules, which say what we can and cant look at. These rules are set out 
in the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. They are known as the Dispute Rules. One of 
the Dispute Rules sets out that our service can only consider complaints which are about 
certain issues  in short, regulated activities or things very closely linked to those activities. 
But complaint handling isnt a regulated activity. So it isnt something we have the power to 
investigate. For that reason, like the investigator, I dont think that our service is able to look 
at the part of Miss Rs complaint which relates to compliant handling.
In respect of the other aspects of the complaint the investigator has given a full summary of 
the background to this complaint in the letters giving his opinion. So, I shant repeat that 
here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add to what hes already told Miss R. I think 
hes covered most points quite clearly and I agree with his analysis and conclusions for 
these reasons:
Nationwide werent responsible for the recall of the ISA transfer;
Nationwide had no control over the funds once theyd sent them to S as requested by 
CHAPs on 23 July 2020, or the timing of their return;
In respect of the failure to send an SMS notification on 14 August 2020 - to prompt 
Miss R to call them for notification that S had found the funds that day - I think the 
£50 compensation offered is fair and reasonable;
The time within which Nationwide processed the returned funds to her account was 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate Miss R feels strongly about whats happened. I dont doubt it was a worrying 
time when the funds couldnt be found. And I can see from what shes told us that shes 
spent time contacting both Nationwide and S to resolve the matter. So, Miss R may want to 
pursue the matter further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  
in trying to resolve her dispute with Nationwide informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this 
disappoints Miss R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman