DRN-1601100
The complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his daughter, Mrs V, that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) acted irresponsibly when they granted loans to her 
What happened
Mrs V had a joint account with NatWest with her husband and was granted two loans in 
February and October 2016 in her sole name. The loans were used for refinancing 
purposes, the first loan was provided in part to repay an existing loan in joint names with her 
husband at NatWest and to repay other external debts - the second loan was provided to 
repay external debts with other lending providers. 
Mr K says that NatWest didnt carry out sufficient checks on Mrs Vs financial position and 
the loans werent taken out in the joint names of her and her husband as her husband had 
adverse credit history. Mr K says his daughter and husband have now separated and she 
cant now afford the repayments given the change in her circumstances and health.  Mr K 
says that NatWest werent thorough enough when approving the loans to his daughter and 
he feels her income and expenditure, if properly assessed, would have evidenced this. 
NatWest says that they carried out a full assessment of the applications for both loans 
considering various circumstances and information within their credit scoring process, 
including credit reference searches. NatWest says they have continued to provide support to 
Mrs V and have done nothing wrong. Mr K wasnt happy with the response from NatWest so 
referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt that NatWest had carried out the level of checks expected when granting both loans to 
Mrs V and there was no evidence to support the loans were unaffordable at the time they 
were granted. The investigator felt that whilst there had been a change in Mrs Vs 
circumstances, that wasnt something that NatWest could be held responsible for. 
Mr K was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I was sorry to hear of Mrs Vs separation from her husband and her health issues which 
have led to her current financial position. 
Mr K says that NatWest didnt carry out sufficient checks when agreeing to the two loans to 
his daughter and that her husband wasnt party to the loans at the time because of his 
financial position, leaving her to now hold the responsibility for the debt. 
I can see that Mr K may feel this way but from the information I have seen and requested 
from NatWest there is no evidence to support Mrs Vs husband had any adverse credit and 
NatWest have confirmed this point. What happened here is that the two loans were applied 
for in Mrs Vs name solely and were processed through NatWest credit scoring process and 
met the criteria it sets as a business. The fact that the loans were granted in Mrs Vs name 
and not jointly with her husband is unclear but from what I have seen this isnt because of 
any adverse credit information on her husband. 
NatWest has to consider each application for borrowing on its own merits, taking into 
account what it knows about the customer and accepting what their customers tell it about 
their finances in good faith (unless theres good reason not to). I am satisfied this is what 
happened here. As a result, I cant see that NatWest can be held responsible for the 
decision to apply for the loans in Mrs Vs name. It is of course the responsibility of all 
consumers, like Mrs V, to ensure that all the information detailed in the loan applications is 
accurate and when approved, Mrs V did have the opportunity at that time to decide whether 
or not she wished to proceed with the loans. 
Mr K feels NatWest shouldnt be able to consider household income when approving a loan 
in his daughters sole name. But that was an option open to NatWest when considering both 
loans. Although from the information provided to this service, I cant see they did that here. It 
may help to explain that the relevant rules here (known as CONC - the Consumer Credit 
sourcebook) explain that a business must consider a customers ability to make repayments 
under an agreement out of, or using several different factors, including:
income from savings or assets jointly held by the customer with another person, income 
received by the customer jointly with another person or income received by another person 
in so far as it is reasonable to expect such income to be available to the customer to make 
repayments under the agreement; 
So, if NatWest had wished to consider Mrs Vs husbands income passing through the 
servicing joint account it may have been reasonable for it to do so. But as Ive said, NatWest 
doesnt seem to have done that here in any event. 
The first loan agreed in February 2016 was used to repay an existing loan held in the joint 
names of Mr & Mrs V with NatWest and to refinance other external debts with various 
lenders. This was drawn in two tranches following a request from Mrs V. 
From what Ive seen, NatWest performed a proportionate assessment of the affordability of 
this loan. It was subject to NatWests credit scoring process and met the criteria set. But in 
considering what else NatWest knew about Mrs Vs position, Ive also looked at the bank 
statements provided to this service. At the time this loan was approved there was no 
evidence of undue pressure on the bank account and the increase in the repayments, 
compared to the existing loan in joint names, was relatively modest. It is likely that the 
external borrowing the loan was used to repay would have been more expensive and as a 
result the loan here would have reduced Mrs Vs outgoings. It follows  I am satisfied that NatWest have acted reasonably here when approving this loan. 
When looking at the second loan approved in October 2016, this is not as clear cut. But I do 
think that overall NatWest acted fairly when it approved this loan too.
Mrs V applied for a loan in October 2016, initially to repay the loan granted in February and 
to refinance external borrowing. 
Loan applications in both her sole name and in joint names with her husband were declined 
on the basis of affordability and debt level to income. Two weeks later Mrs V applied for a 
smaller loan over a shorter term in her sole name for refinancing external borrowing.  On the 
face of it, this raises questions as to why NatWest would be willing to decline loans, but 
approve another within such a short space of time. Even NatWest has acknowledged this 
and said that this was a borderline approval.
But, its important to keep in mind that ultimately the amount a business is willing to lend to a 
customer  and on what terms - is a matter for it to decide. As Ive mentioned already in this 
decision  what Id expect to see here is that NatWest did proportionate checks into whether 
Mrs V could afford this, given what it could be reasonably be expected to be aware of at the 
time of the application.
So, while this was a borderline approval, NatWest has shown that the application was still 
subject to its normal checks and application processes here, which included checking Mrs 
Vs credit file. Given that this was, again, intended to refinance existing borrowing elsewhere, 
this would have been beneficial financially to Mrs V given it would have reduced monthly 
outgoings and more than likely reduced interest costs elsewhere. I havent seen anything to 
show that this loan left her in a different, or worse position than before it was granted.
This is all reinforced by the fact that the loans were subsequently serviced without issues, 
until almost 2 years later when Mrs V explained to NatWest her situation had changed which 
resulted in difficulties in servicing her debts. Thats a long time to repay borrowing for if it 
wasnt affordable  even if her finances were stretched. It seems that what happened here is 
that rather than the loans being unaffordable, it was the change in Mrs Vs circumstances 
that meant she couldnt repay them two years after she took them out. 
I realise Mr K and Mrs V may disagree with that, but its what the evidence here impartially 
shows me.
Ultimately, my role here is to see if NatWest approving the loan contributed to her financial 
problems. Having considered that point I feel that NatWest approved the loan in both cases 
to refinance debt and I am satisfied that this wouldnt have made her overall financial 
situation worse as a result. 
I can see that NatWest have since suggested various debt support agencies to Mrs V in their 
communications with her which is what I would expect to see and have come to an 
arrangement for Mrs V to make nominal payments to the outstanding loans.
While I can understand both Mr K and Mrs V will be disappointed with my decision, I cant 
see that NatWest have contributed to Mrs Vs current financial situation as a direct result of 
providing the loans mentioned before or they acted unreasonably when they approved them. 
It follows I wont be asking anymore of NatWest here. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman