DRN-2466627
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly told him it could provide details about a
debit card payment hed made in 2015. Mr L says the banks poor service caused him
considerable financial loss.  
What happened
Mr L was successful in a court case against a third party. But to recover what he was owed
by the third party he needed their bank details.
Mr L asked Barclays for details of the third partys account hed made a debit card payment
to in 2015. He says Barclays told him hed need to provide a solicitors letter and court
documents before it could release the details. Mr L provided what Barclays had asked for but
the bank then said it couldnt help.
Mr L complained and the matter was investigated by this service under a separate complaint
reference. During the course of that complaint it was established that Barclays couldnt
provide what Mr L needed. It would only have third party bank details if the third party was a
Barclays customer, and a 2017 system change meant it didnt hold transaction details from
before that date.
Mr L said if Barclays had told him that when he first made enquiries, he wouldnt have
wasted time and expense obtaining solicitors letters. He also said the delay caused by
Barclays mistake meant hed lost other opportunities to locate the third party.
Barclays considered the points Mr L raised as a new complaint. This service investigated it
under this complaint reference.
Our investigator considered it wouldve been reasonable for Barclays to respond promptly to
the first letter Mr Ls solicitor had sent. Had it done so, it wouldnt have been necessary for
the solicitor to send a second letter. So the investigator recommended Barclays should cover
the cost of the second letter.
Barclays had also offered to pay £100 as a gesture of goodwill for the delay in dealing with
Mr Ls complaint. The investigator considered this was fair.
Barclays agreed with the investigators recommendation but Mr L didnt. He considered
Barclays shouldve told him when he first made enquiries that it couldnt provide the
information he needed. Mr L also considered Barclays 2017 system change was a change to
its terms and conditions and he shouldve been told about it.
Mr L said the delay caused by Barclays actions meant hed lost other opportunities to locate
the third party that owed him money. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision for the complaint on 24 November 2020, and said I intended 
to uphold it in part. Ive summarised my provisional findings below:
Mr L had said from the outset that Barclays branch staff told him the information he 
needed could be provided if he supplied specific documents to make the request. So 
I understood Mr Ls frustration when he provided what he says Barclays asked for, 
but was then told the information he needed wasnt available.
The information Mr L needed was in connection with a court case. There
was a reasonably large amount of money at stake, and the case was clearly 
important to Mr L. He needed payment information about a transaction with a third 
party on a specific date. The relevant information was set out in the letter sent from 
Mr Ls solicitor on 3 July 2019.
Taking those points into account, on balance I thought it was likely that when Mr L 
made enquiries in the branch he wouldve made the staff aware that the information 
he needed dated back to 2015. And I thought at that point, it wouldve been 
reasonable for Barclays to tell him that the information he needed wasnt available.
If that had been the case, Mr L couldve avoided the cost of solicitors letters. So I 
was satisfied that Barclays should cover the costs of all the letters his solicitor sent to 
Barclays. Mr Ls solicitor wrote to the bank on 3 July, 26 July and 25 September 
2019.
Mr L said that if the position had been clarified sooner, he wouldnt have lost the 
opportunity to locate the third party. He hadnt specified what other opportunities to 
locate the third party were available to him, but Id seen nothing to suggest he 
couldnt pursue those other avenues while he was waiting for the information he 
needed from Barclays.
Mr L considered he wouldve been more likely to locate the third party if hed had the
information from Barclays. But from what Id seen I didnt think I could safely say that 
would definitely have been the case. And even if Mr L had been able to locate the 
third party, I couldnt safely say that money he was owed definitely wouldve been 
recovered. So I wasnt persuaded that Barclays had to cover the additional loss Mr L 
said hed suffered.
I said Barclays should cover the cost of the three solicitors letters, and pay the £100 
it had already offered.
Mr L didnt make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Barclays said it agreed with my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments from the parties, Im not persuaded to 
depart from the position set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
Barclays should cover the cost of the three letters Mr Ls solicitor had to send. I understand
Barclays has already covered the cost of the letter sent on 25 September, so it should
reimburse Mr L for the letters sent on 3 July and 26 July and also pay £100 to Mr L if it hasnt
already done so. My final decision
My decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay compensation to Mr L in line with the 
instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman