DRN-4128366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander UK Plc didnt tell them that their fixed interest rate 
mortgage deal was ending. They said they ended up paying interest that couldve been 
avoided if Santander had written to them, either before or after the deal ended.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs C, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr C. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr C told us hed had a number of fixed interest rate mortgage deals with Santander 
previously. He said each time the fixed rate was due to end, Santander had written to tell 
him this. He sent us the last such letter he received, in July 2020, telling him his fixed rate 
deal was coming to an end in September 2020. 
Mr C said he wanted to pay off the mortgage when his latest fixed interest rate deal ended. 
But hed belatedly discovered it had ended on 2 October 2022. Mr C said he hadnt received 
any notification beforehand to tell him that the rate was ending or what his new variable rate 
would be. Mr C said he knew the expiry date was set out on his annual statement, but he 
thought he was within his rights to expect the usual paperwork, as previously received.
Mr C said on 22 December 2022 he received two letters from Santander. One told him his 
mortgage was due for repayment shortly. The second letter told him about an increase in the 
interest rate on his mortgage. He said he would have expected a letter like this second one, 
in October, but he said Santander had told him no such letter was sent in October. 
Mr C said he thought he should have been charged around £300 in October, but he was only 
charged the same as the previous month, £92.10. Mr C said Santander didnt tell him about 
this mistake, instead the next month it charged almost double, with a direct debit of £507.31, 
to cover the increase for October as well as November. Mr C said he only discovered this 
mistake, when the December letter told him about an increase in Santanders Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR). 
Mr C said he complained in late December that he had received no notification of the fixed 
rate ending. He said Santander told him it had fulfilled its legal obligations and would not 
discuss the matter further. Mr C said Santander wouldnt tell him why its process had 
changed. 
Mr C said if hed known the fixed rate was ending, then he would have paid off the remaining 
mortgage on either 2 or 3 October. He had paid it off in mid-December instead. Mr C 
estimated hed paid over £1,100 in extra interest because of what had gone wrong here 
(including while he was waiting for a response to his complaint) and he wanted Santander to 
pay this back. He also wanted compensation, and an apology from Santander.
Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it told Mr C about the end date of 
his fixed interest rate mortgage when he took this deal out, and reminded him of this in his 
annual mortgage statements. Santander also said that a letter was sent out after Mr Cs 
fixed rate deal ended in October 2022. Santander said it had followed its policy and 
processes, and it wouldnt refund any money to Mr C.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Santander provided 
clear information about the mortgage product in its original mortgage offer and its annual 
statements. So she thought Santander had provided sufficient information to make Mr C 
aware of the product expiry date
Our investigator said Santander had shown our service a letter dated 3 October 2022 which 
confirmed the mortgage had reverted to the SVR and told Mr C about the new monthly 
payments  which would take effect from 28 November 2022. Our investigator thought this 
also told Mr C that his old fixed rate had ended. 
Our investigator said she sympathised that the expiry of this mortgage had coincided with a 
difficult period in Mr Cs life, but she said she couldnt say that Mr C incurred financial loss 
solely as a result of an error or unfair action on Santanders part. So she said she wouldnt 
ask Santander to cover any additional interest Mr C may have incurred.
Mr C wrote to object. He said that there were inconsistencies in Santanders account, which 
had led him to conclude that Santander was lying to us. Mr C said he spoke to Santander on 
the phone on 22 December to register his complaint. The agent told Mr C that Santander 
was under no obligation to remind customers that their fixed rate deal is coming to an end. 
Mr C told us that when he pointed out that Santander had always done so before, the agent 
said we dont have to do that, were under no legal obligation to do so, and we have 
discharged our duties. 
Mr C said that he didnt get any letter from Santander dated 3 October 2022, telling him the 
mortgage had reverted to the SVR. And he thought that if such a letter had been sent, then 
the agent he spoke to when lodging his complaint would have mentioned it. But he made no 
reference to it. Because the agent hadnt mentioned this letter on the call, Mr C thought 
Santander had made this up since. 
Mr C said that Santander had now said this letter (which he didnt believe was sent) told him 
that new monthly payments would be effective from 28th November 2022. Mr C said if 
Santander had been more careful when it was making up this letter, it would have inserted 
the correct date of 28 October. Mr C said that his payments didnt go up until November. But 
he said if this letter had really been sent on 3 October, how could Santander possibly have 
known in advance that it would make a mistake, and not take the higher payment which he 
owed in October. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She noted Mr C didnt accept that a letter was sent 
in October 2022, because this wasnt mentioned when Mr C raised his concerns. But our 
investigator said it was mentioned in Santanders written response to Mr Cs complaint. 
Shed seen a copy of the letter, which was sent to the correct address. The payments 
mentioned there were in line with those taken from Mr Cs mortgage account. So she said 
she couldnt agree that Santander had provided inconsistent information.
Our investigator said Mr C felt Santander couldnt have known that the payment taken on 28 
October would be incorrect. But our investigator didnt think this payment was incorrect. She 
said that the increased interest took effect from 3 October, but Santander is required to tell 
customers before their payment amounts change. It gave notice on 3 October, and the 
changed payments took effect from 28 November, as the letter set out. Our investigator said Santander isnt obliged to send out product expiry reminder letters. 
This isnt a regulatory requirement. She understood that Mr C had previously received such 
letters, but she still didnt think Santanders actions or omissions had resulted in Mr C 
incurring financial loss.
Mr C said he wanted to see the letter that Santander had sent. And he wanted it in the 
format it was sent. Our service sent him the letter wed received from Santander, but Mr C 
said this wasnt the document that was sent. 
In his previous reply to our investigator, Mr C had told us that, on the call of 22 December, 
Santander said there was no letter issued before his fixed rate ended, and that its agent 
made no reference whatsoever to a letter issued afterwards on that call. But here, Mr C 
said Santander had told him specifically that not only was no letter issued before his old rate 
ended, to warn him of that, but Santander had also said specifically that no letter was issued 
after this, to tell him about the different interest rate and that payments would rise. So thats 
why he thought the letter of 3 October was a fake.
Mr C remained unhappy that our service wasnt able to send him the letter in the format it 
was sent to him. He thought we must have received this by paper copy, or through a 
forwarded email, and whichever it was, he wanted that sent to him. He remained firmly of the 
view that no such letter had ever been sent. His further observations said that hed been told 
in December, on the phone, that not only was no letter sent telling him about the upcoming 
end of his fixed rate mortgage, but Santander had also told him that they dont send letters 
advising customers of their revised monthly payment. So Mr C said he thought this letter of 3 
October had been concocted purely as a defence against the complaint. And he wanted to 
know, if this letter of 3 October had been sent, why Santander had apparently made an 
exception to its processes, just for him.
Mr C wanted an ombudsman to consider his complaint. So this case came to me for a final 
decision. Before reaching my decision, I asked our investigator to send Mr C the 
screenshots we had received of the letter of 3 October, as it shows on Santanders internal 
system. I also asked her to send the single line from a larger database, which Santander has 
offered as evidence that this letter was sent. (Our service removed the remainder of this 
record, which does not relate to this complaint.)
I said then that it appeared Mr C was concerned that Santander was now claiming it had 
stepped away from its usual process, because it says it sent him notification of the change in 
his mortgage payments on 3 October 2022. But I said I wouldnt expect Santander to change 
the monthly payment amount on Mr Cs mortgage without notifying him. So the 3 October 
2022 letter was very much what I would expect to see issued, in circumstances like his when 
a fixed interest rate has come to an end and a new variable rate means that monthly 
payments will change.
I invited Mr C to comment further, and he has done so. He continued to state that it would be 
simple to create evidence like this after the fact, so he didnt think anything wed sent him 
actually proved a letter was sent to him on 3 October, advising of his changed monthly 
payments. Mr C told us that he understood, from an industry source, that there was nothing 
stopping Santander from creating this evidence after the fact. 
Mr C insisted hed been told in December that Santander hadnt issued a letter after his rate 
had changed, and it was no longer obligated to do so. So Mr C said hed had no notice of the 
greatly increased payment that was taken in November 2022. Mr C said he wanted a copy of 
any recording of the call he had to lodge his complaint, where this was said. Mr C still thought that Santander had concocted this letter to provide a defence to his 
complaint, and he drew my attention to the comments hed made earlier about the dates of 
payments in this letter (as set out above) which he thought provided support for his case. I 
then reached my final decision in this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I should start with the issue which is not in contention here. All sides accept that Santander 
didnt send Mr C a specific letter, prior to the expiry of the fixed interest rate deal on his 
mortgage, warning him that this deal was about to expire. 
Mr C says he was entitled to expect such a letter, because hed always received one before. 
Santander simply says it isnt obliged to send a letter to its customers before their fixed 
interest rate ends. It says it has done enough to meet its obligations by telling Mr C in his 
original mortgage offer, how long that deal will run for, and reminding him of the end date in 
his annual statements. 
I understand that the expiry of this fixed rate deal happened to coincide with what I expect 
was both a difficult and busy period in Mr Cs life, when a reminder that his fixed interest rate 
deal was ending would have been particularly useful. And I also appreciate that Mr C was 
accustomed to receiving these reminder letters from Santander. But Im not able to say that 
its either unfair or unreasonable for Santander not to have written to Mr C in advance, to 
draw his attention specifically to information which it had already provided to him on other 
occasions. So I cant say that its Santanders fault that Mr C wasnt aware, before the start 
of October, that his mortgage deal would end then. 
Mr C says he didnt realise the deal had ended until he received letters telling him about a 
change in rate in late December. Santander says it wrote to him on 3 October, to tell him that 
he would be paying its SVR, and to warn of upcoming changes in his monthly payment, 
scheduled to take effect in November. 
As part of Mr Cs complaint to us, he has said both that Santander didnt mention the 3 
October letter on his call with it (and he thought if it had sent a letter on 3 October, it would 
have mentioned this) and that Santander had specifically denied issuing any letter 
immediately after his fixed rate deal ended, and said it was under no obligation to do so. 
Mr C wanted our service to listen to the call he had to lodge his complaint on 22 December. 
But I wont further delay the resolution of this case, to request this call. Thats because I 
dont think this call is key to resolving the issues here. 
I think its most likely that, on this call, Santander said it had no obligation to issue a letter 
before Mr Cs deal ended, and simply didnt refer to the 3 October letter. I think thats most 
likely to be what happened, because I think its unlikely that Santander would say its under 
no obligation to issue a letter telling Mr C what interest rate hes going to be charged, or 
warning him that his payments, collected by direct debit, are going to change. 
It wouldnt be right for Santander to say its never under an obligation to tell customers when 
the interest rate charged on a mortgage changes. And the direct debit guarantee requires 
Santander to tell Mr C if there are any changes to the amount of money its going to collect through direct debit. Thats why I said, when I wrote to Mr C, that the letter Santander says 
was issued on 3 October, was very much the sort of letter I would expect to see issued in his 
circumstances. 
I know Mr C feels that it would be easy for Santander to create this letter after the fact. 
Thats a very serious allegation to make, but I have considered what Mr C says carefully. 
I have to consider what is most likely to have happened in this case. And what Mr C argues 
has happened, is that Santander not only didnt send a letter which wasnt a regulatory 
requirement, telling him that his mortgage rate was ending, but it then also didnt send a 
second letter, which is a regulatory requirement and a requirement of the direct debit 
scheme, telling him about changes to his upcoming payments. 
I think its simply more likely that Santander did send this second letter, and it unfortunately 
wasnt safely received by Mr C. 
Ive also considered what Santander said in that letter about payments. Mr C said how could 
Santander know, on 3 October, that it was going to make a mistake about his October 
payment? I think the answer is simply that his October payment wasnt a mistake. Santander 
had always intended to make sure Mr C had plenty of notice of the change to his direct debit 
payment, so it only ever intended to change the payment amount in November. That would 
also fit with what Mr C later told us about a rate change letter he did receive  that these can 
take some time to arrive.
So even if I requested a recording of the call Mr C had with Santander on 22 December, and 
it said what Mr C now alleges, that there was no letter issued on 3 October, that wouldnt 
make me think this is what is most likely to have happened, and Santander did invent this 
letter later on. Rather, I would say that this was most likely to be a mistake on that call.
I understand that Mr C is very unlikely to agree with me, but I do think its most likely that 
Santander did write to tell him on 3 October that his interest rate had changed, and his 
payments would increase in November, as it has since said. And because of that, I dont 
think this part of Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
I know that Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think Santander has to repay interest hes 
paid on his mortgage, before redeeming it. And that means his complaint wont be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman