DRN-3275881
The complaint
Mr B complains that a loan was mis-sold to him by a representative of Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr B bought a bathroom from a retailer, which Ill call S. To pay for the 
purchase, Mr B took out a loan with Hitachi Capital, arranged by S. Under the terms of the 
loan, Mr B was to make 48 monthly payments, the first to be made in March 2020. That is, 
payments were deferred for one year. If Mr B repaid the loan in full before the first payment 
was due, he would not have to pay any interest. 
Mr B says that he was pressured by Ss salesman into taking out the loan. He had intended 
to pay in full at the point of sale and had the means to do so. The salesman explained 
however that the first payment was deferred for one-year and that Mr B could therefore have 
the benefit of one years interest-free credit. The salesman also said that he would earn 
more commission if Mr B paid for the bathroom on credit. 
Mr B did not repay the loan in full before the first payment was due. He repaid it a couple of 
months later, in May 2020. That meant that he paid about £300 more than he would have 
done if he had paid in full a couple of months earlier. 
Mr B explained that he had contracted Covid-19 at about the same time. He also said that he 
had not received a copy of the loan agreement at the time of the sale and had expected to 
receive a reminder when the first payment was due. Hitachi Capital said that it had written to 
Mr B when he took the loan out and that it had sent a reminder in early February 2020 that 
the deferred interest period would end on 15 March 2020.
Mr B referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. In the 
meantime, he said that one of the taps was not working properly. Hitachi Capital arranged 
for an inspection, which identified a manufacturing fault. The faulty item was replaced at no 
cost to Mr B. 
Our investigator issued a preliminary view but did not recommend that Hitachi Capital do any 
more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. She did not think that the loan had been mis-sold and was 
satisfied that Hitachi Capital had reminded Mr B when the deferred payment period was 
about to come to and end. Mr B did not accept the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.            
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 Hitachi Capital is equally liable with S 
for any breach of the contract for the supply of goods. Mr Bs contract with S was to be read 
as including a term that the goods would be of satisfactory quality. It appears that a tap was 
not of satisfactory quality. It has however been replaced, so I do not need to comment any 
further on that issue. 
Mr Bs primary complaint however concerns the loan agreement itself. The effect of section 
56 of the Consumer Credit Act is that any representation made by S (or its employee) about 
the loan agreement is to be taken as having been made by an agent of Hitachi Capital. That 
is, Hitachi Capital is responsible for what Mr B was told about the loan agreement and for the 
actions of S in relation to it.
I accept Mr Bs account of what he was told at the time of sale. That is, I accept that he could 
have paid for the bathroom out of his own money and had no need to take out a loan. He did 
so because he was persuaded to, not because that was his plan. That does not mean, 
however, that the loan was mis-sold. It was correct that, if he had paid the loan in full within a 
year, he would not have had to pay any interest. And I do not believe that even his own 
account of events amounted to undue pressure to take out the loan. He could have chosen 
not to do so.
I am prepared to accept too that Mr B did not receive a copy of the loan agreement, either at 
the time of sale or subsequently in the post. I do believe however that Hitachi Capital wrote 
to him to confirm the loan details. It has provided a copy of a letter of 28 March 2019 
confirming the amount of the loan, the number and amount of the monthly payments and the 
date on which payments were to start. It was clear from that letter what Mr B needed to do if 
he wanted to avoid paying any interest.
Hitachi Capital also provided a copy of a letter of 2 February 2020, reminding Mr B that the 
deferral period would end on 15 March 2020. That letter also said how much Mr B would 
need to pay  including a £20 administration fee. 
Mr B says that he did not receive either letter. I note however that both are correctly 
addressed, with the correct postcode. Whilst some post does go missing, the vast majority is 
safely delivered, so I think it more likely than not that both these letters were too. Even if Mr 
B did not receive them, I believe that Hitachi Capital did enough to ensure that he knew 
about the end of the deferral period. 
Mr B says too that he did not receive a copy of the loan agreement itself. But he was entitled 
to ask for one at any time. 
The key information included in the loan agreement was however also included in the 
welcome letter of 28 March 2019. That included information about the amount of the loan, 
the monthly payments, the details of the account from which payments would be taken and  
importantly for this complaint  the date by which payment needed to be made to avoid 
interest. I believe Hitachi Capital did enough to make sure Mr B had the information he 
needed.        
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman