DRN-4353867
The complaint
Mr G and Ms N were unhappy with how Chaucer Insurance Company Designed Activity 
Company (Chaucer) handled a claim they made under the travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Ms N held a worldwide annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, with Chaucer 
being the insurer. The policy started on 19 April 2022 and ended on 18 April 2023. The 
policy covered various pre-departure and post-departure risks.
During this time Mr G and Ms N went on holiday abroad. They were due to fly home on 
20 June 2022, but they unfortunately couldnt return to the UK on this date as planned. This 
was because theyd contracted Covid-19 and werent considered fit to fly until they received 
negative Covid-19 test results.
As Mr G and Ms N couldnt return home as planned, they needed to extend their stay in their 
hotel. Mr G and Ms N contacted their travel insurer, Chaucer, in relation to this, and the need 
to rearrange their flights home.
Mr G and Ms N said that they asked Chaucer about the additional hotel bill they were 
incurring. And were told by Chaucer that it would settle the bill directly with the hotel. So, 
when they were well again, and on reliance of this information, Mr G and Ms N left the hotel 
and returned home without paying the additional seven-night stay. However, on getting 
home Chaucer told Mr G and Ms N that it hadnt been able to settle the hotel bill directly, 
because of payment restrictions.
Mr G and Ms N were unhappy with this. They said theyd been treated very well by the hotel 
and communicated to Chaucer the importance of the hotel being paid. Chaucer maintained 
its position that it couldnt pay the hotel and suggested that Mr G and Miss N pay the hotel 
bill themselves, and then seek reimbursement through their policy.
Mr G and Miss N didnt consider this to be fair and felt that Chaucer had an obligation to pay 
the hotel directly. And explained they had also experienced communication problems with 
Chaucer. As they were unhappy, they raised a complaint about the matter.
Chaucer responded to Mr G and Ms Ns complaint. In terms of the hotel bill, Chaucer said it 
had tried to pay the bill directly, including through a local agent, as well as an agent in a 
third-party country. But this had proved unsuccessful, due to sanctions in the country the 
holiday had been in. Chaucer said it hadnt been aware there would have been issues 
paying the hotel until they arose  so didnt think it had done anything wrong in this regard.
However, Chaucer did acknowledge there had been some communication problems 
experienced by Mr G and Ms N. It said it had overlooked an email whilst Mr G and Ms N 
were abroad, asking to be contacted via their hotel. It apologised for the communication 
issues Mr G and Ms N had experienced and offered £100 compensation to them for the 
distress and inconvenience they had experienced.
Mr G and Ms N remained dissatisfied with Chaucers position on the matter, so referred their 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said 
that Chaucer had acted fairly by attempting to pay the hotel bill directly, and in asking Mr G 
and Ms N to pay the bill directly, and seek reimbursement from it, when paying the hotel 
directly was unsuccessful. In terms of the £100 compensation offered, our investigator said 
they wouldnt comment on this, with it not being the crux of the complaint.
Mr G and Miss N didnt agree with our investigators outcome on the hotel bill. They 
reiterated that Chaucer had said it would pay the hotel. And said they were concerned about 
the impact paying the hotel directly would have on them, giving sanctions Chaucer had 
mentioned.
As Mr G and Miss N didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend on requiring Chaucer to pay Mr G and Ms N £100 compensation in 
total. But I dont intend on requiring it to do anything more.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Mr G and Ms N. But Ive explained the reasoning for 
my intended decision below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether Chaucer acted in line with these requirements, when it handled 
Mr G and Ms Ns claim.
Ive also reviewed Mr G and Ms Ns policy, to see what cover this provides. On doing so, I 
can see that under Section B1  Medical and other expenses outside of the United 
Kingdom it is explained that Chaucer will pay some costs, including any extra 
accommodation (room only) costs if a policyholder couldnt return to the UK as originally 
planned. This being because of testing positive for Covid-19 within 14 days of the booked 
return date, up to the relevant policy limit.
Given this, Im aware there is cover under the policy for Mr G and Ms Ns additional seven-
night hotel stay. Chaucer isnt disputing the above cover. So, I havent needed to consider 
this any further. Rather, this dispute is about the way in which the hotel costs are paid. Ive 
therefore thought about whether Chaucer has acted fairly here.
And, having considered the information provided by both parties, I think it has. The policy 
doesnt detail how the hotel costs will be paid  whether directly to the hotel, or via Mr G and 
Ms N. And Im aware travel insurance is to provide indemnity to the insured, for the covered 
losses they incur. So, it isnt unreasonable for Chaucer to require Mr G and Ms N to settle 
costs directly with the hotel, and then pay them back, on receipt of evidence.
Mr G and Ms N say that Chaucer told them otherwise though. And they acted in reliance of 
this. So, Ive looked at what Mr G and Ms N were told, to see if Chaucer acted fairly here. 
Ive done this by looking at the emails between the parties at the time, as well as Chaucers 
internal claims notes.On doing so, I think Chaucer acted fairly. It looked to accommodate Mr G and Ms Ns 
preference to have the hotel paid directly. On 26 June 2022, I can see that Chaucer 
responded to Mr G and Ms Ns questions about payment of the hotel bill. Chaucer said it 
would contact its agent to see if they could arrange to pay the bill directly. This was followed 
up with an email the following day, saying the agent had contacted the hotel to ask to 
arrange billing.
Although I can understand why Mr G and Ms N considered the bill would likely be paid 
directly by Chaucer, Ive not seen any firm evidence that Chaucer confirmed it could 
definitely settle the bill in this way, before Mr G and Ms N left the hotel.
I understand Mr G and Ms N feel Chaucer didnt do enough to try and make the payment 
directly. But I dont agree. Chaucer has explained why it ended up not being able to make 
the payment directly  because of sanctions which meant its banking chain couldnt make 
the payment. And Chaucer has also shown me that it attempted to seek alternative methods 
to make the payment, through other entities it had relationships with. Unfortunately, these 
entities couldnt make the payment either. But Im satisfied Chaucer attempted to do what it 
could to pay the bill in the way Mr G and Ms N preferred.
As this wasnt possible, I do think its fair for Chaucer to ask Mr G and Ms N to pay the costs 
they incurred and provide evidence of this so that Chaucer could reimburse Mr G and Ms N. 
This isnt an unusual or unreasonable method of settling a claim of this nature. Given this, I 
dont intend on finding Chaucer did anything wrong here.
Chaucer has however accepted that it did make some errors in the way it communicated 
with Mr G and Ms N. And I agree. Whilst I can see that Chaucer did make some attempts to 
stay in touch with Mr G and Ms N, on 24 June 2022, Mr G and Ms N did explain they needed 
Chaucer to contact their hotel room, rather than their mobile phone or email  given issues 
such as poor Wifi. But Chaucer didnt use this preferred communication method when it 
should have. 
I can appreciate how this would have been distressing and inconvenient for Mr G and Ms N. 
I do however think the £100 compensation Chaucer has offered is a fair and reasonable way 
to recognise the upset caused to Mr G and Ms N, at a time when they were already poorly, 
and struggling with Wifi. So, I intend on requiring Chaucer to pay this to Mr G and Ms N, if it 
hasnt done so already.
Chaucer responded to my provisional decision, and noted it had nothing further to add. Mr G 
and Ms N didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Chaucer should pay £100 compensation to Mr G and Ms N. 
But I dont require it to do anything more.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I require Chaucer Insurance Company Designed 
Activity Company to pay Mr G and Ms N £100 compensation in total if it hasnt already done 
so. I dont require it to do anything more than this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Ms N to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman