DRN-3300727
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank Plc didnt write to him to tell him that his mortgage account 
was in arrears. He says his credit file has been unfairly impacted as a result.
Miss F is a joint account holder and has given our service her consent to consider this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr M and Miss F have a joint mortgage with Lloyds. In 2009, Mr M left the property but 
remained named on the mortgage. In 2015, Mr M stopped making any contributions to the 
mortgage and Miss F took responsibility for the full mortgage payments, although both 
remained named on the mortgage.
In 2011 Mr M took out another mortgage when he purchased a new property. In 2021 Mr M 
applied for additional borrowing on the mortgage but this was declined as a result of his 
credit score.
Mr M looked into his credit score and found that his joint mortgage with Miss F had been 
reported as being in arrears in 2019 and 2021. He made a complaint as he said he had not 
been made aware of these arrears. He also found out Lloyds had granted a payment 
deferral on the mortgage following the regulators guidance issued during the pandemic.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said as the mortgage was in joint names, both 
parties were responsible for the payments jointly and individually. And so both parties were 
responsible for ensuring all payments were made. They said theyre required to provide a 
true and accurate record to credit reference agencies of customers mortgage accounts on a 
monthly basis. They were satisfied theyd reported the payment history accurately. They did 
explain that Mr M could add a Notice of Correction to his credit file if he wanted to.
Lloyds said they wrote to Mr M at the property address about the arrears and the payment 
deferral. They didnt have a record of him updating his correspondence address for this 
mortgage. They didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M asked our service to look into things. He was unhappy that his credit file had been 
impacted by a mortgage he was no longer involved with. He said he stayed on the mortgage 
to help Miss F, and had updated Lloyds with his correspondence address when he moved 
out in 2009. He said that if Lloyds had told him that payments were being missed, he could 
have made the payments and avoided the arrears. He was also unhappy that Lloyds had 
granted a payment deferral on the account and not told him. He explained to us in detail 
what hed been through over the years, and the impact this problem has had on his mental 
health.
Our investigator looked into things, and whilst he empathised with Mr Ms circumstances, he 
didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by reporting the missed payments to credit reference 
agencies. He thought it was reasonable that Lloyds wrote to him at the address they had on 
record, and there was no evidence of him changing that. He also thought it was reasonable 
for Lloyds to agree to the covid-19 related payment deferral without Mr M agreeing to it.
Mr M disagreed. He felt that his overall circumstances and what hes been through should be 
taken into account. He said he shouldnt be held responsible for those missed payments, 
and his credit file should not be affected.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr M has been through some challenging personal circumstances over the years, 
and I appreciate the level of detail and information hes provided our service. Whilst Ive only 
summarised the events in this decision, I want to assure all parties that Ive carefully 
considered everything thats been sent to us before reaching this decision.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M says he only stayed named on this mortgage to help Miss F out, 
and she had taken full responsibility for the mortgage payments, whilst Mr M remained a 
named account holder on the mortgage, he was jointly (and individually) responsible for 
ensuring the mortgage was paid. Lloyds have an obligation to report information that is 
accurate to the credit reference agencies. So when this mortgage account was in arrears, 
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds to have reported this on both Mr Ms and Miss Fs 
credit files. Looking at the transaction history for the account from 2019 onwards, and the 
way Lloyds have reported the status of the mortgage, Im satisfied theyve reported it 
accurately.
So what remains for me to decide, is if the arrears on the mortgage were caused by unfair 
treatment by Lloyds and could have been avoided. Mr M says he wasnt aware of the 
mortgage arrears until 2021 when his application for further borrowing on another mortgage 
was declined. Ive seen evidence of Lloyds writing to Mr M about the mortgage arrears, but 
those letters were sent to the mortgaged property  which Mr M says he hasnt lived at since 
2009. So I do think its unlikely Mr M was aware of the arrears on the mortgage.
Ive seen Lloyds internal records, and the correspondence address they had recorded for 
Mr M was the mortgaged property. This had been the case since 2006, until 2021 when it 
was updated. I appreciate Mr M has said he updated his address in 2009, but unfortunately 
theres no record of that update being made. That doesnt mean he didnt request the 
change, but I think if he had done, he ought to have realised sooner than 2021 that Lloyds 
hadnt updated it.
I say that because Mr M hadnt received any correspondence about the mortgage since he 
moved out in 2009. He was still making payments towards the mortgage until 2015, and so 
whilst he may have forgotten about it in more recent years, he was still aware of the 
mortgage at that point. Yet he wasnt receiving any correspondence about it. So if hed 
asked to change his correspondence address in 2009 but that hadnt happened, I think he 
ought to have queried this with Lloyds sooner, which could have mitigated the events that 
led to this complaint being made. I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to write to Mr M 
at the address they had recorded for him.
Mr M has said that if he had been made aware of the payment issues, he could have paid 
towards the mortgage and avoided the arrears. Ive said I dont think it was a result of an 
error made by Lloyds that Mr M wasnt made aware of the arrears. And so I dont think they 
need to take action to retrospectively amend the way theyve reported this account to credit 
reference agencies. Its unclear whether the mortgage arrears have now been repaid. But in 
the event theyre still outstanding  Mr M is still responsible for this mortgage and so hes 
able to bring the mortgage up to date by repaying the arrears if he wants to. I note Mr M has said he wants to be removed from the mortgage. But I cant see that hes 
actually spoken to Lloyds about that or made an application to be removed. As Lloyds 
havent had the opportunity to consider that, I wont comment on it any further. 
Finally, Mr M is unhappy that Lloyds granted a payment deferral on the mortgage without his 
permission. In line with the guidance issued by the regulator, Lloyds were not required to get 
consent from all parties on the mortgage before agreeing to a payment deferral. But, that 
doesnt automatically follow that it was fair and reasonable to grant the deferral in this 
particular instance. 
Having considered the circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to grant 
the payment deferral. Miss F was the account holder who had been paying the monthly 
payments for some time, and she requested a payment deferral due to the way the 
pandemic had affected her ability to make the monthly payments. Lloyds wrote to both Mr M 
and Miss F to confirm the payment deferral at the correspondence address, which I 
appreciate Mr M didnt receive. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that was 
because of an error made by Lloyds. If the payment deferral had not been granted, and the 
payments not made to the account, then the mortgage would have been reported as being in 
arrears for longer than is currently showing on both Mr M and Miss Fs credit files. That 
wouldnt have been in the interests of either party. So I dont think Lloyds acted unfairly by 
agreeing to the payment deferral at the time.
Mr M has asked our service to take into account his overall circumstances and the fact that 
he wasnt responsible for the missed payments when thinking about whats fair and 
reasonable. But whilst I empathise with Mr Ms situation, when weighing up what a fair 
outcome would be, I have to consider what is fair to both sides. In this case, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds have done anything wrong, and so whilst I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M, Im not going to ask them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman