DRN-3036324
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr D took out a mortgage in 1996 with Bradford & Bingley Plc, trading as 
Bradford & Bingley Building Society (B&B), and were sold a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. They say they were mis-sold this type of cover.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs C and Mr D its unlikely 
to be upheld. They disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
The first thing I looked at is whether Mrs C and Mr D agreed to the policy - I think theres 
plenty of evidence that they did because I have access to the original paperwork they both 
signed. I can see there was a section on their mortgage application about PPI and when 
asked if they wanted it, they inserted the word YES. I note they also went on to select the 
type of cover they wanted and some aspects about the costs. I therefore think B&B 
correctly obtained Mrs C and Mr Ds consent.
Theres no evidence B&B carried out an advised sale here. This means it presented the 
PPI as an option and it was for Mrs C and Mr D themselves to decide what they wanted to 
do. B&B should have supplied enough information to enable Mrs C ad Mr D to make an 
informed decision.
Obviously I cant say after such a long time that Mrs C and Mr D were told everything they 
ought to have been told. But they would have known that getting the mortgage was their 
own decision and I think the PPI was portrayed as an optional extra for their consideration. 
As Ive said, the costs were most probably understood by them at the time and they could 
see the amount of benefit that would have been payable, if theyd needed to make a claim.
Even if I considered that B&B could have done more to explain certain things, Im afraid I 
still dont think this changes anything. Both Mrs C and Mr D appear to have been eligible for 
the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these 
policies. The price seems to me to be comparable with similar policies Ive seen from 
around that time period and at around £16 per month for joint-cover, Ive seen nothing that 
suggests it wasnt affordable for them. 
Mrs C and Mr D said they didnt need the cover because they both had sickness protection 
with their jobs. But, as Ive said, the decision about whether or not to take out the policy was 
for Mrs C and Mr D to make. In any event, this cover was in addition to any other means 
they had at the time and as their mortgage was secured against their home, I think it was of 
use. I also think the policy covered mostly what they probably assumed they were buying at 
the point of sale. In the event of a successful claim, up to £125 (each) was payable every 
month for up to a year. 
Overall, I think theres strong evidence that Mrs C and Mr D engaged in the discussions 
about this sale and went through a number of steps to get the policy. I think it was 
something they wanted to have and I see they went on to keep it for several years.
Im very sorry to have to disappoint Mrs C and Mr D.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs C and Mr Ds complaint. 
I do not direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman