DRN-2984608
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled her claim for flood 
damage to her property under her home insurance policy.  
What happened
In 2009, Mrs Rs home was damaged due to a flood. Aviva accepted the claim, which has 
continued for many years. In 2018 this service looked into a complaint against Aviva in 
relation to the handling of the claim. This was concluded in April 2019; the parties both 
agreed to a way forward, including Mrs R moving back into the property and Aviva only 
paying one further month of alternative accommodation (AA) cover, to take Mrs R up to the 
end of April 2019.
Later on in 2019, Mrs R made a further complaint to this service. She wasnt happy with 
further issues that had arisen. Mrs R raised numerous issues including the state of the 
electrical wiring; she said it was left unsafe and she had to arrange to have this fixed at her 
own cost. She also said the gas supply pipe hadnt been connected to her cooker before she 
returned home. She also had concerns that the garage was suffering from damp, due to the 
presence of salt deposits on the its floor and external brickwork. 
Aviva accepted there were still some remaining issues with the property, so it proposed to 
cash settle those for £715. It said any salt deposits werent evidence of damp and could be 
brushed away, it said they had no detrimental effect on the concrete. Ultimately, it didnt 
think it needed to do any more to resolve the claim, once the snagging money was issued.
Our investigator didnt agree with that. He thought Aviva had done a poor job on the wiring 
and Mrs Rs report had showed a cable in the loft could have led to a fire. He also said it 
wasnt clear from Avivas file that it had connected her cooker to the gas supply before she 
moved back in. So he thought whilst these issues were outstanding, Mrs Rs home wouldnt 
have been habitable. He said an additional amount of AA should be paid until those issues 
were resolved. 
Our investigator noted Avivas comments on the garage, but said Mrs R had provided 
photographs which suggested there may be an issue with damp. So he thought Aviva should 
appoint an independent damp expert to assess the garage and provide a report to both 
parties. 
Mrs R has made numerous claims for expenses such as packing and storage and for items 
that have gone missing or been broken during the life of the claim. Our investigator thought 
Aviva was entitled to ask for information to substantiate the costs being claimed for, but in 
order to bring this matter to a conclusion, he recommended that it have the items valued by 
an independent expert. He said a figure for the other costs such as storage needed to be 
agreed, unless Mrs R could provide invoices for the amounts shed paid.
Further issues covered by our investigator were repairs to a meter cupboard; he said this 
should have been resolved by Aviva. In relation to the items on the snagging list, he thought 
Aviva should appoint an independent company, not one from the list of its own panel of 
contractors, to carry out a site visit. He said Aviva should implement any recommendations 
from that report.
He also recommended a further payment of £750 be issued to Mrs R to recognise the 
distress and inconvenience Aviva had caused from April 2019 until August 2020.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in earlier this year. In it I said:
This claim has been ongoing since 2009, so whilst Im only considering events since the last 
decision of our service was issued in April 2019, Im also setting out my thoughts of how any 
remaining issues can be resolved. It seems theres been a breakdown in communication 
between the two parties which has meant many issues have gone months without being 
resolved so my thoughts below are intending to move the claim forward to a close. 
Alternative accommodation
From Avivas file, it seems it stopped paying for Mrs Rs alternative accommodation at the 
end of April 2019, as it said the property was habitable from that point. In August 2019 Mrs R 
provided a report by her own electrician. This highlighted grave concerns with the quality of 
work that had been carried out, and the dangerous state of some of the electrics. 
From what Ive seen on the file, it wasnt until November 2019 that the electrics were finally 
resolved and signed off as safe. Aviva say the delay was partly caused by issues gaining 
access to Mrs Rs property, as she wasnt living there. It also said it hadnt been able to 
finish the electrics, so it knew they werent completed in April 2019. Having looked through 
Avivas file, I cant see that Mrs R was asked for access after April 2019 and had refused. Its 
not clear to me why it took from August to November 2019 for the electrics to be rectified. 
Whilst Mrs R may have contributed to this delay (there is mention that she changed her mind 
on some light fittings when the electricians were in the property) Im satisfied Aviva should 
pay for AA until the end of November 2019. 
Mrs R has said she sourced her own AA during this time, and she paid a nominal amount. 
Mrs R has quoted an amount of £2,450 from June to December 2019. She hasnt made a 
claim for AA in May 2019. I think Aviva should refund Mrs R what she paid from June to the 
end of November 2019. I believe this figure to be £2,100 - subject to her being able to 
provide invoices or proof of payments. Whilst I note there were further snagging issues after 
this time, I havent seen anything which suggests Mrs R couldnt have reasonably lived in the 
property from the end of November. So even though it seems she stayed in her rental 
property in December 2019, I dont think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover this cost. 
Items lost or taken from the property
Mrs R has provided a list of items that since 2009 have gone missing or been broken. These 
include chandeliers, a cast iron fire surround, lampshades and a mirror. In total the list 
provided by Mrs R has been estimated by her to be worth around £2,800. From what Ive 
seen, Aviva hasnt disputed that these items have been broken or gone missing. But it has 
asked Mrs R for further information on the cost of replacing the items. I cant see that this 
has been provided by Mrs R, but Im mindful that shes said shes had some of these items 
for many years, and it may be difficult for her to provide anything. Our investigator recommended having the items valued independently, but the cost of that 
would fall to Aviva, which I dont think is fair. Mrs R does have some responsibility to show 
how shes reached the values that shes claimed for. So I consider a fair and reasonable way 
to resolve this issue would be for Aviva to pay Mrs R £1,800 for the items. In reaching this 
figure Ive thought about the number of items claimed for and that no further information has 
yet been provided. If Mrs R can provide any documentation or information that makes Aviva 
think the items are worth more, it should then pay that difference. But in the absence of 
anything further, I consider £1,800 to be reasonable in order to move this claim on. 
Mrs Rs claim for other expenses
Aviva has provided me with a spreadsheet it has added comments to, it says this is the most 
up to date list of outstanding expenses being claimed by Mrs R. Mrs Rs claim for AA is on 
this list, but Ive already considered that in this decision. The remaining costs add up to 
around £6,500. 
Aviva has marked several items on this list as ones it is able to consider. This amounts to 
£396, so it should pay this amount to Mrs R if it hasnt done so already. 
Around £4,000 of the expenses are for storage and packing costs. Aviva agreed to an 
amount of £1,150 in principle but has asked for invoices to support it to be sent, I cant see 
that this has been done. The remaining amounts its refused on the basis the property was 
habitable or its asked Mrs R to confirm more detail on where her belongings were being 
moved. Looking at the amounts, I think Mrs R has made a reasonable claim for further 
storage costs from June 2019 as Ive already considered her property wasnt habitable. I 
note Mrs R hasnt been able to provide invoices. I understand she has a lot of paperwork to 
get through. But from everything Ive seen theres nothing to suggest Mrs R has inflated 
these costs or is claiming for amounts shes not entitled to. 
So I intend to ask Aviva to cover the storage costs up until the end of November 2019. From 
everything Ive seen I think a fair amount for Aviva to pay would be £3,520. This isnt the full 
amount Mrs R has claimed for, as she also paid for storage in December 2019. But I dont 
think it would be fair to ask Aviva to cover this extra month, when her property became 
habitable in early November.  
There are several items on the list that Aviva has refused to pay, these items amount to 
around £840. Some of the items I consider it reasonable to refuse, such as £90 to cover 
Mrs Rs time spent meeting with a contractor. This isnt something I consider Aviva should 
compensate for. Its a natural occurrence during a claim that some inconvenience will be 
suffered in meeting with contractors to discuss works. 
But there are two items on this list, the electrical survey and Mrs Rs claim for heating costs, 
which I consider should be paid. Mrs R had the electrical survey carried out as she had 
concerns about Avivas work, and the report showed those concerns were valid. I also 
consider her heating claim to be reasonable given her extra time in alternative 
accommodation. So I think Aviva should pay £460 to settle this part of the expenses. 
There are a further 13 items claimed for which Aviva has asked for further information on, 
such as an invoice for the gas hob to be reconnected, change of door locks, washing lines, 
curtain tie backs and black out blinds. These items total around £1,160. Mrs R hasnt 
responded to Avivas request for more information on these items. And I think its been 
reasonable in asking for more evidence to see if these items should be covered as part of 
the claim. So unless Mrs R can provide satisfactory information in relation to these, Aviva 
doesnt have to pay these amounts. Snagging list
Mrs R has raised further issues with the work carried out by Aviva. In its spreadsheet its 
provided there are 19 issues listed. Aviva has offered £715 as a cash settlement to resolve 
the outstanding issues its prepared to cover. Mrs R doesnt accept that amount as she 
wants Aviva to finish the work, shes also mentioned she may have further issues to be 
raised. Under Mrs Rs policy Aviva does have the option to cash settle part of a claim, so its 
offer in principle isnt unfair. Mrs R has sourced her own workmen to carry out various parts 
of the work in the property, so I havent seen anything to suggest she wouldnt be able to 
have the snagging issues resolved herself. There are also some issues that Aviva can only 
resolve once Mrs R has completed some of her own works  so it seems a cash settlement 
of any remaining issues would allow Mrs R to have the work done when is convenient for 
her.
I also havent seen anything from Mrs R that makes me think £715 isnt a reasonable 
amount for Aviva to pay, so I think thats what it should do to resolve the remaining snagging 
issues. Our investigator recommended an independent report be carried on out on capture 
all of the snagging issues, but I dont think thats necessary, I think Avivas been reasonable 
in what its offered to pay so this matter should be brought to a close. 
Damp in the garage
This item appears on Mrs Rs snagging list, but I think Aviva needs to do some more work to 
resolve this issue. Mrs R has repeatedly raised issues with the garage and possible damp. 
Shes said shes had to use crates to put her belongings on so they dont get damaged, and 
shes provided photos of the garage floor showing large salt deposits. Aviva has said the salt 
can be brushed away and it doesnt impact the floor or its effectiveness. But it hasnt 
provided any documentation to show the garage has been reviewed by someone who can 
comment on damp issues. In order to resolve this aspect of the claim, I think Aviva should 
appoint a damp specialist to carry out a report on the garage. Should any further work be 
recommended, that can be linked to the flood claim, then Aviva should carry this out. 
Boiler
Mrs R has said her heating was effected as part of the thermostat hadnt been fitted 
correctly. Shes now had this repaired at a cost of £330. I can see from Avivas notes that 
this was discussed in early 2020, and Aviva had said it wanted to resolve the issue. But 
based on what Ive seen, it didnt do so. So unless Aviva can demonstrate that it carried out 
works to the boiler in 2020, it should pay Mrs R £330 for the boiler repairs, subject to her 
providing the invoice. Shes also mentioned that she had the heating system drained, at an 
additional cost of £220. I havent seen any evidence that this is linked to any work carried out 
by Aviva as part of the claim, so at the moment Im minded to say that Aviva dont have to 
cover this cost. 
Compensation
Avivas said its been working hard to bring the claim to a resolution, but I consider its actions 
have caused Mrs R further unnecessary distress and inconvenience. She had to source her 
own alternative accommodation when she was rightly concerned about her electrics and has 
been liaising with storage agents more than she should have needed to. She also had the 
worry of an unsafe property. So I consider Aviva should pay £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused her.Aviva responded to my provisional decision. It didnt say whether it accepted the 
recommendations or not. But it raised the following points, summarised below:
It raised questions about how I had calculated the storage amounts in my provisional 
decision.
It reiterated its points about alternative accommodation, and that it was unable to 
gain access to Mrs Rs property to resolve the issue.
It disputed it had accepted responsibility for any missing or broken items from the 
property and said it had previously told Mrs R shed have to contact the police about 
any items she believes to have been stolen.
In relation to the boiler, it said its contractor was unable to gain access to the 
property to inspect the thermostat and address any issues.
An inspection has already been carried out by its surveyor who is confident there are 
no issues directly related to the flooding of the garage. 
Mrs R provided a number of invoices, expenses, photographs and reports in response to 
items I said should be evidenced, and I thank her for doing so. She also said some of the 
expenses that Aviva had disputed, she hadnt been given the opportunity to provide further 
information on, and she wasnt sure what they were. 
In summary, as well as reminding me of the history of the claim shes said why shed like 
Aviva to finish any works rather than provide a cash settlement. Shes also outlined why she 
considers £750 compensation to be insufficient for the experience shes had.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure both parties that Ive read and considered all of their points, but below I 
will only comment on what I see are the key reasons for the outcome Ive reached.
Alternative accommodation
Mrs R has provided a copy of a tenancy agreement for the dates she stayed in alternative 
accommodation. This agreement says she paid £350 per month. I said in my provisional 
decision that Aviva should pay a total of £2,100 for alternative accommodation costs if Mrs R 
could provide proof of payment. This hasnt been done. But as Ive seen the tenancy 
agreement, I think its most likely she did incur this cost. And as Im satisfied Mrs R couldnt 
have stayed in the property for the period of June  November 2019, Aviva needs to pay 
Mrs R this amount. I acknowledge Avivas said there were issues gaining access to the 
property, but on balance I find that if the works had been properly carried out initially, this 
extra work wouldnt have needed to have been done. 
Missing or broken items
Aviva has said its never accepted responsibility for any items missing from Mrs Rs property, 
and its previously told her to contact the police with her concerns. I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mrs R has done this. In response to my provisional decision shes sent some 
estimates in for the items she said went missing, as well as photographs of some broken 
light fittings, which shes said were damaged by Avivas contractors.Having considered both sides, I still think a payment of £1,800 should be made by Aviva. Ive 
seen evidence of broken light fittings, I find it plausible these could have been broken during 
the extensive work carried out on Mrs Rs property. But I dont think it needs to pay any more 
in the circumstances. I appreciate Mrs R going to the effort of providing estimates for the 
other items, but as I cant see any evidence of any police involvement of the missing items, I 
find the figure Ive already set out to be fair and reasonable in resolving this issue.
Other expenses claimed for
In my provisional decision I said I was minded to ask Avivato pay £4,106 for packing and 
storage costs. This was made up of £3,250 set out in my provisional decision, and the other 
amounts that I felt should be paid (or Aviva had previously agreed to cover). These amounts 
were £396 and £460. I apologise for any confusion caused.
Neither party has provided any evidence that changes my mind in relation to the storage 
costs. Mrs R has sent some invoices in  its not clear to me if shes claiming for any further 
amounts other than those Ive set out. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that Aviva 
needs to pay more than £3,250 to settle Mrs Rs storage costs, so thats what it will need to 
pay. Aviva will also need to pay £396 and £460 as set out in my provisional decision.
Following my provisional decision, I sent Mrs R a list of expenses shed claimed for, which 
Aviva said hadnt been evidenced. I asked her for information as to how these costs were 
linked to the claim. She has provided that information, which I shared with Aviva for 
comment. Aviva said Mrs R had made things difficult to manage by continually adding further 
expenses. It felt it had already paid enough to resolve the claim, but said it would contribute 
towards a further amount in order to resolve the complaint. 
Ive reviewed the information Mrs R has sent. Many of the items she said had to be replaced 
as they were disposed of by the contactors, such as blinds and tie backs. So those items it 
seems reasonable that Aviva replace. I dont think there is any amount included in the list of 
items that is obviously not covered by the policy. And Mrs Rs explanations of why these 
expenses were necessary seems reasonable. So in the absence of any more information 
from Aviva, Im going to ask it to pay £1,000 towards these further expenses. 
Mrs R has also added some further invoices, its unclear whether shes provided these to 
Aviva previously. But as an example, shes provided an invoice for having her driveway 
cleaned, and a full electrical survey of her property, which seems to have been carried out 
earlier this year. Having considered everything, Im not persuaded any of Avivas mistakes in 
the handling of the claim are most likely responsible for the various additional costs Mrs R 
has raised, So Im not going to ask it to reimburse these costs. 
However, I can see Mrs R seems to have been charged £100 to reconnect her gas cooker. 
Aviva had said it would consider this if an invoice was provided so I now think it should pay 
this amount. 
Snagging list
Mrs R has said it would be difficult for her to sort the work herself as shes elderly and cant 
rely on family. However overall, I havent seen anything to persuade me Aviva has been 
unreasonable in making a cash offer for any outstanding issues such as wallpapering, a 
fitting of an exterior light and door blinds. Mrs R has been able to arrange contractors to 
come into the property, clean her driveway and carry out electrical works for example.  So on 
balance, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to ask Aviva to carry out 
the outstanding work. So £715 is what Aviva should pay for this, if it hasnt done so already.
In relation to her garden, Mrs R says a gardener has quoted around £9,000 to have it 
reinstated but Aviva only offered a very small amount. As part of this complaint, I havent 
seen anything that persuades me that Aviva need to take more action in relation to Mrs Rs 
garden as a result of the claim. Damp in the garage
Following my provisional decision, Mrs R has provided her own damp report on her garage. 
This suggests a sealant be put on top of the concrete, which any moisture wouldnt be able 
to penetrate. Aviva doesnt accept it needs to carry out any more work to the garage as its 
surveyor has said theres no issue with damp. I think theres enough, from both Mrs Rs 
comments, photos Ive seen and Mrs Rs report, to suggest there could be an issue with 
moisture in the garage. But Aviva would only be liable to resolve this is if it is linked to the 
original claim, or any work it carried out as part of the claim. So I still think it should appoint a 
damp expert to provide a report on the likely cause of the issue. If Mrs R is unhappy with 
Avivas actions following the outcome of that report, shed need to raise that as a separate 
complaint.
Boiler
Mrs R has provided invoices to match the £330 she said she paid for the heating issue to be 
resolved. So having considered this part of the claim again, I think this is the amount Aviva 
needs to pay. Shes said the system also needed to be fully serviced, I believe this was the 
extra £220 shed requested to be reimbursed. But overall, Im not satisfied Aviva should pay 
this extra amount as I havent seen enough evidence that it is linked to any issue caused by 
Aviva. 
Compensation
Mrs R considers £750 to be derisory, as it amounts to less than £3 per week. When making 
an award for distress and inconvenience, this service does so to recognise the impact that 
any businesses failings have had on its customer. Mrs R has said shes had to move six 
times since 2009, but this payment of compensation is only in relation to events from April 
2019, as everything else was considered under a previous complaint with our service. 
Since April 2019 I think Aviva has made mistakes which have caused unnecessary distress 
and inconvenience, having considered everything Mrs R has said, I still consider a payment 
of £750 to be a fair reflection of this.   
My final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited needs to pay Mrs R a total of £10,151 to 
resolve her claim for expenses as laid out in this decision, less any amount it has already 
paid.
It also needs to pay £750 to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
Finally, it should arrange for a damp expert to assess Mrs Rs garage. If that expert agrees 
there are any issues which can be linked to the original flood claim, Aviva should carry out 
any necessary repairs.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman