DRN-3568498
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund several transactions he didnt
recognise.
What happened
Mr R explained that he received a notification on his Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) app
about a payment he didnt recognise. Mr R then contacted Barclays about it and told them
he hadnt made any transactions.
Barclays told Mr R that his debit card had been used to make three large transactions and
theyd had several conversations with him the day before about reversing two of the
payments. Mr R denied speaking with Barclays but said hed received various unusual calls
and One Time Passcodes (OTPs) from Barclays. Mr R had experienced earlier suspicious
activity with his account and told Barclays that he believed his identity may have been
compromised.
Barclays looked into the disputed transactions and found that all three of them were made
using Mr Rs debit card and his Personal Identification Number (PIN). Mr R explained to
Barclays that his wallet was lost around the time of the disputed transactions which
contained his driving licence, Barclays debit and credit card and another credit card from a
different bank  Ill refer to as J.
Mr R was asked about the security of his PIN and he confirmed to Barclays that he hadnt
written it down as it was easy to remember and he used the same one for most of his cards
including the Barclays debit and the credit card for J. Mr R added that hed been suffering
from medical issues that affected his memory.
When Barclays investigated the disputed transactions, they found that Mr Rs account had
been in credit which was used to make the first transaction. They then received two calls
from a person who passed their security but was calling from a withheld number. That
person successfully obtained a reversal of the payment from the merchant which meant that
Barclays credited Mr Rs account with the first transaction.
A further transaction was then made to a different merchant and Barclays were again 
approached about reversing it which they did. Once the account received the credit back into 
it, it was again spent with a third merchant before Barclays blocked the account. This meant 
that the original funds in the account had effectively been recycled into three different 
payments resulting in a large overdraft being applied to Mr Rs account.
Barclays declined to refund the three disputed transactions to Mr R and he raised a
complaint about how Barclays had handled his situation. Barclays looked into the matter but
didnt change their opinion about the complaint. Mr R then brugh this complaint to the
Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
Mr Rs complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for
information. Mr R explained that he hadnt written his PIN down and that the same one was 
used with most of his cards, but in the same conversation he later said hed written it down 
and left it on his desk at home, in his wallet and recorded it on his phone.
Barclays produced evidence of the transactions and other audit data including the use of Mr
Rs BMB on the day of the disputed transactions and OTPs sent to Mr Rs phone which
related to conversations held on the day of the disputed transactions.
Our investigator thought Mr R hadnt authorised the transactions but had been grossly
negligent with how hed kept his PIN recorded in his wallet and had an opportunity to notify
Barclays about the suspicious transactions earlier than he did. Mr Rs complaint wasnt
upheld.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review of his
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has explained that he lost his wallet which led to several large disputed transactions
being taken from his account using his debit card and PIN. On the day of these transactions,
Mr R received several large payments into his account, which Mr R said was a loan for a
motor vehicle he was intending to purchase.
The statements show that prior to the transfer of the funds, the account had a balance of
£0.05. It was these incoming payments that enabled the disputed transactions to be made.
What then happened is that whoever was making these payments called Barclays and
persuaded them to reverse the transactions on several occasions. What this meant was the
original funds in Mr Rs account were basically recycled because Barclays applied a refund
before the original transactions were completed.
This allowed the repeated use of the same funds until the three transactions were finally
completed by the merchants which meant that Mr R now had a large debt on his account.
Having listened to the various calls supplied by Barclays, the first attempt to reverse the
payments was turned down, but later ones were successful. Not all calls are available, but
its apparent that Barclays were persuaded on several occasions to refund pending
transactions.
Theres no argument here that the three transactions used Mr Rs card and PIN  what is
argued is that Mr R says it wasnt him. So, whilst Im satisfied that Barclays have
authenticated the payments, what remains to be decided is whether consent has been
proven which would enable Barclays to hold Mr R liable for the transactions.
Ive closely examined the information supplied by both parties and there are several aspects
to Mr Rs account that seem to conflict with earlier versions of what hes said.
When Mr R was spoken to by Barclays he repeatedly confirmed he hadnt written his PIN
down anywhere, which he also confirmed to our service in his original call about the
complaint. But, he later said hed written it down and left it on his desk at home, recorded it
in his phone and written it down and kept it in his wallet. Thats a significant change in how
Mr R managed his PIN.
He also told Barclays and our service that hed lost his driving licence when he lost hiswallet. He also said he hadnt applied for a new one because he was no longer gong to
drive, but in a visit to a Barclays branch a few months after the disputed transactions took
place, their records show that Mr R was positively identified using his driving licence  which
again, seems at odds with what hed said earlier.
Despite losing his wallet around the time of the disputed transactions  Mr R never told
Barclays about this, nor did he report the loss to J. Barclays evidence shows that Mr R was
using his BMB on fifteen separate occasions on the day of the disputed transactions. It
seems to me as though he would have been aware that there was unusual activity on his
account and by that point his wallet had been lost and he could have reported it to Barclays
 which would have limited or even prevented the abuse of his account.
Its not possible to positively identify who was calling Barclays and its apparent that whoever
it was didnt know some security information - but was able to pass security with other details
asked by Barclays. Barclays also sent several One Time Passcodes to Mr Rs registered
phone on the day of these transactions. These codes were to prove the identity of a caller
when speaking with Barclays  so the evidence shows that Barclays spoke with Mr R on
several occasions that day despite Mr R denying it was him. Its entirely possible that
another person was involved in the manipulation of the Barclays refund system  but Mr R
would still be responsible for the disputed transactions if the evidence shows it was more
likely than not that it was him who enabled them.
The evidence from Mr R is, so far, contradictory and Im not sure if its entirely reliable. Ive
thought about the medical difficulties experienced by Mr R, but I dont think that can fully
explain the answers he gave to both Barclays and our service when asked about what had
happened with his card and PIN.
J were also approached about Mr Rs lost card. They explained that the account hadnt been
used despite having substantial credit available at the time. Mr R confirmed the card used
the same PIN, so if Mr Rs wallet was picked up by a thief  which seems to be the
assumption here  they would be likely to at least attempt to use the card. That didnt
happen and nor did Mr R notify J about the loss of his card. That meant his credit was at risk
so I would have thought he would have notified them as soon as he realised it was missing.
Mr Rs version of events portrays the loss of his wallet which is picked up by a thief who is
then able to obtain enough details about Mr R to pass Barclays security, including details
only available on a Barclays statement. Mr R hasnt mentioned losing a statement  only his
wallet. So, it seems unlikely that a random thief could find Mr Rs wallet, obtain enough
information to pass security on several occasions with Barclays, all within a day or less. I
think it would have taken far more knowledge and planning to undertake these payments
than a lost wallet can explain, which also happens to be soon after a large amount of funds
reach the account.
When Ive considered the whole picture here, I think its more likely than not that Mr R was
responsible for these disputed transactions or allowing someone else to use his card and
PIN. Im currently intending not to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
I invited Mr R and Barclays to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Barclays didnt have anything further to add and 
Mr R commented that theres a lack of evidence linking him with the transactions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R believed that the lack of evidence of him using the card himself or making calls to 
Barclays is supportive of his case that these transactions werent authorised by him. But, 
Barclays are still able to hold Mr R liable for the transactions if the evidence shows it was 
more likely than not that it was Mr R who enabled the use of his card and PIN by someone 
else. 
Having considered Mr Rs comments, I havent seen anything that would change my mind 
about this complaint. Whilst Mr R may not have used the card himself, I think its unlikely that 
whoever used it did so without his permission. Ive already set out why I think that in my 
provisional decision, so I dont need to repeat that here.
So, Im now adopting my provisional decision as my final decision which means I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman