DRN-4330726
The complaint
Miss D complains about the way in which Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a missing 
payment into her account.
What happened
Miss D explains that she made a payment of £3,566 from an account at a different financial 
business to her Barclays account on 3 April 2023. This initially showed as credited, but she 
says then didnt show. She is unhappy at the different explanations she received and the 
distress that this caused her.
Barclays said that the payment was put on hold following our standard security protocol. 
But it accepted that it hadnt told Miss D this at the time and that she was caused distress 
when speaking to different members of staff. The money was released to her on 4 April 
2023. It offered to pay her £100.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and Miss D paid total 
compensation of £300. Miss D attended a branch on 4 April 2023. She was told to go to the 
bank where she had the account she sent the money from and provide proof of income. This 
had nothing to do with where the money had gone. She was extremely distressed and lost 
an afternoon of work and by the end of the day felt very unwell.
Miss D agreed with the suggested resolution. Barclays didnt say whether or not it agreed 
and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays wanted to make a check on the source of these funds. Its entitled to do so under 
its terms and conditions. And the position was that this was Miss Ds legitimate money that 
she needed to pay important bills.
Miss D didnt receive a clear explanation of what was happening. She contacted someone 
on the app who told her to go back to the sending bank to find out what had happened. She 
was told in branch that the money was missing, and she feared she had been the victim of 
a scam, or her account was hacked. She was also told that there were checks being made 
and that these could take up to 30 days. Miss D understands that checks can be necessary, 
but this wasnt explained to her or what she needed to do.
Miss D has also provided information about her personal circumstances which in my view 
shows why this was particularly distressing for her. And this also took all of an afternoon in a 
branch when she would otherwise have been working.
Our investigator recommended higher compensation as a result. Ive reviewed this and 
taken into account our published guidelines. I find that £300 is reasonable compensation to 
reflect what happened. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay    
Miss D £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman