DRN-3381526
The complaint
Mr F complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 Money (MCF) lent to him 
in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr F was given two loans by MCF in 2016. He first borrowed £2,000 in May 2016 that he 
agreed to repay in 24 monthly instalments. Around seven months later Mr F refinanced that 
loan and took £1,500 of additional borrowing. So the second loan, taken in December 2016, 
was for £3,164, and Mr F again agreed to repay it in 24 monthly instalments. Mr F appears 
to have faced problems repaying the second loan, and a balance remained outstanding 
when he made his complaint.
Mr Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the checks 
MCF had done before agreeing each loan had been proportionate. And he didnt think the 
results of those checks suggested that Mr F would be unable to repay the loans in a 
sustainable manner. So he didnt think MCF had been wrong to give either loan to Mr F.
Mr F didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Fs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave these loans to Mr F required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr F. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr F undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr F. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr F.
MCF gathered some information from Mr F before it agreed each loan. It asked him for 
details of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much he was repaying to other creditors and how he had managed credit in the past.
Mr F was entering into a significant commitment with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments on each loan for a period of two years. So I think it was right that MCF wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Fs financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above 
were sufficient to achieve that aim  I think that MCFs checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So 
Ive looked at the results of MCFs checks to see whether it made a fair lending decision on 
each loan.
When he applied for the first loan Mr F provided MCF with details of his income and 
expenditure. He told MCF that he was living with his parents, so it wasnt surprising that his 
normal living costs were relatively low. Based on what Mr F declared to MCF it was 
reasonable for the lender to conclude that he would be able to meet his repayments from his 
disposable income.
And there was nothing on the credit check results that I think should have caused MCF any 
undue concern. It is true that the results showed that Mr F had faced some problems with his 
finances in the past. The credit check showed two defaulted account that remained unpaid. 
But those defaults occurred many years before. On balance I dont think they suggested that 
Mr F was facing any current problems managing his money. Otherwise Mr F was making 
little other use of credit. He had a fluctuating overdraft on his bank account, and a small 
credit card balance that was within the agreed credit limit. There were no signs that he was 
reliant on credit to support his normal living costs.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for MCF to provide the first loan to Mr F.Mr F asked to refinance his loan just seven months into a 24 month term. And he asked to 
take some additional borrowing at that time. I think that should have put MCF on notice that 
Mr Fs finances might potentially be under some pressure. But the credit check showed little 
deterioration in Mr Fs finances. His overdraft and credit card balance remained under their 
limits. And he had only taken one other loan in the intervening period that was well on the 
way to being repaid. His declared disposable income remained more than sufficient for him 
to meet his loan repayments.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for MCF to provide the second loan to Mr F either.
I am sorry to hear that changes in Mr Fs circumstances have left him unable to repay the 
second loan. But I havent seen anything that makes me think those changes were 
reasonably foreseeable by MCF, or indeed Mr F, at the time he applied for the loans. So 
I dont think they were something that MCF should have reasonably taken into account in 
any lending decision that it made.
As I said earlier, Mr F still had an outstanding balance on his second loan when he made his 
complaint. Id remind MCF that it should treat Mr F sympathetically when discussing the 
repayment of that debt. But, although I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr F, 
I dont think MCF was wrong to give either loan to him.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman