DRN-2248076
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim on her travel 
insurance policy.
Mrs Ps represented by Mr F.
What happened
Mrs P has travel insurance as a benefit of her bank account. She was due to travel abroad 
on a package holiday, together with Mr F and his wife, on 27 March 2020. 
Mr F asked the travel provider to cancel the trip on 16 March 2020, as he said the country 
they were travelling to had closed its borders due to Covid-19. The following day, 17 March 
2020, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel 
abroad as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. So Mrs P made a claim on her travel insurance 
policy for her cancellation costs. The evidence she provided to Aviva showed her claim was 
down to the change in FCO guidance as a result of Covid-19.
Aviva turned down Mrs Ps claim. It said the policy only covered cancellation costs that 
couldnt be recovered from elsewhere. As Mrs Ps holiday had been booked as a package 
through the travel provider (including flights and excursions), it told Mrs P shed need to 
claim a refund from the travel provider under the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR). 
Mr F complained about Avivas decision. He said hed been made redundant on 28 February 
2020. The cancellation section of the policy covered claims arising from the redundancy of a 
policyholder or their travelling companion and Aviva had paid his own claim for that reason 
(albeit under a separate policy and a separate claim). So he felt it should also deal with Mrs 
Ps claim under that heading too. He felt the policy didnt define what a recoverable loss was. 
And he felt Mrs P hadnt been treated fairly. 
Aviva maintained its decision. It said Mrs P hadnt claimed due to Mr Fs redundancy, shed 
claimed as a result of Covid-19. So thats how itd assessed her claim. 
Mrs P remained unhappy with Avivas decision, so Mr F asked us to look into her complaint. 
He confirmed that Mrs P had had a full refund of her costs from the travel provider. But he 
explained Mrs P was looking for an apology for the poor handling of her claim; the delays 
shed experienced and the stress shed been caused. Mrs P was unhappy Aviva hadnt 
considered the claim under the redundancy cover. Neither the policy nor the key facts 
document mentioned that cancellation wouldnt be covered if the claim ought to be covered 
by the PTR and recoverable losses wasnt defined. And Aviva hadnt provided him with a 
copy of its terms and conditions.
Our investigator thought Aviva had handled Mrs Ps claim fairly. He felt that as Mrs P had 
told Aviva shed cancelled her trip because of Covid-19 and the change in FCO guidance, 
itd been fair for it to assess the claim under this heading. He said that policy terms excluding 
recoverable losses were common in travel insurance policies. And he considered itd been 
fair for Aviva to conclude that the costs would be recoverable under the PTR. He also 
thought Aviva had handled Mrs Ps claim in a timely way. So he didnt think it needed to do 
anything more.
Mr F disagreed. He said he had told his travel provider he was cancelling the trip because of 
the change in the FCO guidance, but thats because telling it he was cancelling due to 
redundancy wouldnt have had any value. Mrs P had been sent a standard Covid-19 claim 
form pack. He didnt understand why the investigator thought it was fair for Aviva to refuse to 
pay Mrs Ps claim under the redundancy heading. And he thought Aviva shouldve paid out 
the claim and then recouped it from the travel provider.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Aviva has treated Mrs P fairly. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive thought carefully about the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Ps policy, the available evidence and the circumstances of her claim to 
decide whether I think Aviva acted fairly. 
It seems to me there are three key issues for me to decide. Was it fair and reasonable for 
Aviva to categorise the claim as it did? Was it fair for Aviva to turn down Mrs Ps claim? And 
did Aviva provide poor service when it assessed the claim? Ill deal with each point in turn.
Did Aviva categorise Mrs Ps claim fairly?
The Cancelling or coming home early section of the policy says:
If you unavoidably have to cancel your trip or come home early, we will pay for the following:
- Non recoverable costs that each insured person has paid, or legally has to pay for 
their own unused personal travel and/or accommodation. This also includes the cost 
of pre-paid excursions and green fees.
If one of the following occurs:
-a Foreign and Commonwealth Office advisory notice is in place advising against all 
travel or all but essential travel to your destination or the FCO are advising British 
citizens to leave the area in which you are staying.
-you are made redundant;
You will also be covered if your travelling companion has to cancel the trip or come home 
early for one of the reasons listed above.
Its clear that the cancellation section of the policy covers both cancellation due to the FCO 
advising against all but essential travel and the redundancy of a policyholder or their 
travelling companion. In this case though, the claims information Mrs P provided to Aviva 
showed that the trip had been cancelled because of Covid-19. It said the travel provider had 
also said the cancellation was down to the change in FCO guidance.Ive seen the cancellation email that Mr F sent to the travel provider on 16 March 2020. This 
said:
Unfortunately we now need to cancel our trip as FCO have advised against all but essential 
travel to (destination)..
Mr F also sent a follow-up email to the travel provider on 28 March 2020. This reiterated that 
hed had to cancel his holiday on 16 March 2020 due to the country the party were travelling 
to having closed its borders. Mr F did mention in this email that hed been made redundant  
but didnt suggest this was the reason for the cancellation of the trip  simply that this was a 
reason he needed a refund quickly.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decide to 
assess Mrs Ps claim under the insured reason it did. It seems most likely Mrs Ps trip was 
cancelled as a result of the change in FCO guidance and I think it was fair for Aviva to rely 
on the evidence it had available when it assessed the claim.
Was it fair for Aviva to turn down Mrs Ps claim?
As Ive set out above, the cancellation section of the policy only provides cover for non-
recoverable costs. The policy also sets out the following general exclusion;
This policy does not cover the following:
Any claim for:
-costs where these are recoverable from your travel or accommodation provider.
As Mr F points out, Aviva hasnt defined what it means by non-recoverable costs. Where a 
term isnt defined in a policy, we generally consider the ordinary and natural meaning of it. In 
this case, I think non-recoverable costs are simply costs that a policyholder is able to get 
back from another source and in particular, their travel provider.
Ive looked closely at the available booking evidence. Its clear that Mrs Ps trip was booked 
through a travel provider and included not just flights, but accommodation, transfers and 
excursions. This means Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to conclude this was a 
package holiday (although I accept it was specially tailored to Mrs Ps party) and therefore 
that it most likely fell within the scope of the PTR.
The PTR provide protection for travellers if their travel provider is unable to provide the 
services a traveller booked and paid for. If theyre unable to provide the trip, the travel 
providers generally responsible for offering an alternative or a full or partial refund. I also 
note that the booking terms and conditions entitled Mrs P to a full refund. 
In this case, while Mr F cancelled the trip before 17 March 2020 when the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel abroad, its clear the travel provider couldnt have fulfilled the 
booking on 27 March 2020. While I note Mr F requested a refund from the provider for Mrs 
Ps costs, I havent seen enough evidence to suggest Mrs P got in touch herself with the 
provider before claiming with Aviva. Given the terms and conditions of the booking and that 
the holiday was most likely to be a package holiday, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Aviva to conclude that the provider would most likely be liable for the costs of the trip under 
the PTR. It was also an ABTA member, so if itd refused to refund Mrs P, it seems likely that 
she couldve sought assistance from that body. In these circumstances, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mrs P needed to try and claim back the trip costs from 
the trip provider and directing her to do so.Im pleased to note that Mrs F has had a full refund of her trip costs from the travel provider. 
On this basis, theres nothing more for Aviva to pay.
Has Aviva handled the claim poorly?
Mr F says there were delays in Aviva handling Mrs Ps claim. It seems Aviva received her 
claim form on 16 April 2020. It wrote to Mrs P on 7 May 2020 letting her know the outcome 
of her claim. This was a timeframe of around three weeks. Given the scale of the pandemic 
at that point, the impact on claims and the postal system, I dont think Aviva caused any 
unnecessary or unreasonable delays in the handling of Mrs Ps claim. 
I can see that Aviva directed Mr F to look at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps policy online 
or to ask her bank for a copy. I dont think this was an unreasonable suggestion -especially 
as those wouldve been the relevant terms and conditions which applied to Mrs Ps claim.
Overall, I havent seen enough to persuade me that Aviva made any errors in its handling of 
Mrs Ps claim or that it treated her unfairly. It assessed her claim in line with her policy terms 
and conditions and Im satisfied it did so reasonably. This means Im not telling Aviva to pay 
Mrs P any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman