The complaint
Ms C is unhappy Wilson Tarquin Limited (WT) has charged her a fee for a Packaged Bank 
Account (PBA) claim that was rejected.
What happened
In November 2019, Ms C signed a letter of authority (LoA) that authorised WT to act on her 
behalf to pursue a mis-sold PBA claim with her bank, Ill call R. In January 2020 Ms C said 
she had a letter from R to say her claim had been rejected. But Ms C said she saw some 
inaccurate information, and she called R to discuss. During this discussion she said it came 
to light that one of the benefits of the PBA was a lower interest rate. And this hadnt been 
applied to a loan she had with R. Following the call, she received a refund for the additional 
interest shed paid on her loan.
Ms C said WT got in touch with her immediately afterwards and said that as shed received 
compensation their fee of 48% of the amount she received was payable.
Ms C complained to WT as theyd given R incorrect information and WT told her that their 
fee would be 35% not 48%. Ms C also said the fee wasnt justified as it was the work shed 
done that had brought about the refund.
WT referred Ms C to the call she had with one of their agents where the information was 
given by Ms C to make her claim. And confirmation of their fees was agreed. WT said R in 
making the refund had referred to the claim WT had submitted. So, WT asked Ms C to pay 
the fee as her claim was successful.
Ms C didnt agree and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the refund wasnt a result of the PBA being mis-sold. So, didnt agree 
that WT could charge their fee. And said WT should pay Ms C £75 for trouble and upset 
caused by poor service.
WT didnt agree and have asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
The agreement Ms C had with WT was on a No win No fee basis. This means WTcharged 
a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. So,any work 
DRN-1995718done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim wassuccessful, 
WTs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. Thisis the risk 
taken by all parties in this type of agreement.
I can see Ms C signed, in August 2019, WTs terms of engagement (ToE). The ToE says:
..We agree to provide our Claim Service to you. This consists of checking whether a PBA 
or PPI was sold to you and whether in the circumstances it appears that it was mis-sold
And in November 2019 Ms S signed a LoA giving WT the authority to submit a mis-sold PBA 
claim on her behalf with lender R. WT submitted the claim later the same month. Ms C also 
completed a PBA questionnaire. The claim was made that Ms C was mis-sold the PBA 
because:
she had to purchase the PBA to get a loan and
shed had to pay a higher premium for insurance because of a pre existing condition
if she didnt have the PBA
In January 2020 lender R responded saying that they didnt agree Ms C had been mis-sold 
her PBA as she had used the benefits of the packaged account. Lender R also said Ms C 
had taken out her loan before she purchased the PBA. And there werent any exclusions for 
pre-existing medical conditions.
During the call between Ms C and lender R it was recognised that Ms C wasnt getting one 
of the benefits of her PBA  a preferential interest rate. And in March 2020 lender R put 
this right by refunding Ms C the additional interest shed paid on a loan plus 8% 
compensatory interest.
The offer letter I think makes clear that R has made two distinct decisions about issue 
one, Ms Cs complaint submitted by WT, that has been rejected. And issue two  failure to 
apply the preferential interest rate which was considered only after Ms C had called them. 
WT has referred to their terms and conditions which say any redress paid as part of the 
complaint will be subject to their 48% inclusive of VAT fee. But Im satisfied that the payment 
made to Ms C wasnt for a mis-sold PBA claim. And wouldnt have been paid if Ms C hadnt 
had a PBA. 
As outlined above the agreement Ms C had with WT was based on whether the claim they 
submitted was successful or not. And their fee would only be charged on a successful claim. 
The claim WT submitted for Ms C was for mis-sold PBA. And this claim wasnt successful. 
So, I dont think WT can charge their fee.
I can see that after R sent the reject letter to Ms C is January 2020, WT looked to defend 
the complaint by escalating it to the ombudsman to consider whether Ms Cs PBA had been 
mis-sold. But the refund Ms C received is for non-payment of a preferential interest rate, and 
I think would be put in doubt if it was decided her PBA had been mis-sold. I cant see that 
they told Ms C theyd do this or updated her about her complaint from January 2020. WT 
only got in touch with Ms C to ask for payment of their fee. So, I agree with our investigator 
that WT should pay Ms C £75 trouble and upset for their poor service. And its for Ms C to 
decide whether she wants her claim escalated further.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Wilson Tarquin Limited to:
waive their fee of 48% inclusive of VAT; and
pay Ms C £75 for trouble and upset
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman