DRN-2618612
The complaint
Mr K complains Lloyds Bank PLC havent supported him when hes experienced financial 
difficulties with his credit cards and overdraft on his current account.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision, setting out whatd happened in the complaint, and what I 
thought should be done to resolve matters:
In April 2019 Mr K got in touch with Lloyds explaining he was struggling with his debts on his 
borrowing. After discussion, Lloyds agreed to put in place a consolidation loan but required 
Mr K to return the paperwork for this.
Mr K says he returned the paperwork but didnt hear back. So, he then tried to speak to 
Lloyds, but says he couldnt get through to speak to anyone about what was happening. 
Because of this, he raised a complaint to Lloyds, letting them know this situation was having 
a significant impact on his mental health.
Lloyds said they confirmed theyd agreed to the consolidation loan on 13 April 2019 and the 
documents for this were sent out a few days later  with a required return date of 
21 May 2019. Theyve said though they didnt receive the documentation until 12 June 2019. 
Lloyds said they tried to call Mr K, but couldnt get through to him on the phone number hed 
provided as it wasnt working. They reprocessed his loan offer, sending out further 
documents, but these havent ever been returned.
Lloyds went on to say as a result of the consolidation loan not being put in place in 
May 2019, defaults were applied to Mr Ks credit cards because the last payment to them 
was November 2018. They further explained the default would last six years, and for the 
lifetime of the balance no further interest or charges would be applied.
Unhappy with this, Mr K asked us to look into things  saying his debts had now been 
passed to a debt collection company, and he was struggling mentally every day with this.
One of our investigators began to look into things. During this time Lloyds explained when 
Mr K returned the paperwork on 12 June 2019 the initial loan agreement had expired  as 
theyre only valid for 30 days. They said a new loan was agreed, but as his credit cards were 
in the process of being passed over to their recoveries department they werent included in 
this new agreement. Lloyds said it wouldnt have been beneficial for Mr K to include them, 
because of the level of interest on the loan, but once transferred to their recoveries area no 
interest or charges would be applied any further. Mr K also explained hes asked Lloyds to 
reply to him by email, but they sent a letter instead which he was unhappy with.
Our investigator considered all of the issues. He didnt have enough to say Lloyds did 
anything wrong by contacting Mr K by email rather than post. But in relation to the debts 
thought it unlikely Mr K would approach Lloyds to explain hes having difficulties repaying his 
borrowing, spend time going through his circumstances, and agreeing a consolidation loan  
only to not return the paperwork within their deadline. He also felt it was Lloyds 
responsibility to treat Mr K positively and sympathetically  and before defaulting his credit 
card accounts should have contacted Mr K first to understand what was going on. Because 
of this, he said Lloyds should remove Mr Ks credit card accounts from recoveries 
department, remove the defaults thatd been applied and update his credit file to show this. 
He also said he thought Lloyds should allow Mr K to apply for the consolidation loan and pay 
him £250 compensation for the upset caused in a situation which if Lloyds had treated him 
positively and sympathetically could have been avoided. 
Mr K accepted most of the outcome our investigator reached  but didnt think £250 
compensation was fair. He felt £500 would be fairer because the default letters caused him 
and his family distress.
Lloyds didnt accept any part of the investigators outcome. They said it was clearly 
explained on the phone call the requirement to return the paperwork within 30 days and what 
would happen if Mr K didnt. Lloyds added that Mr K was told to make token payments to the 
credit cards  but failed to do so. They said theyd acted sympathetically by offering to 
consolidate the debts. In addition, they said Mr Ks salary was coming into his current 
account with them until July 2019 and being immediately transferred out to another account. 
Because no salary credits were then received, they didnt know Mr Ks financial 
circumstances. Due to all of this, they didnt think our investigators outcome was 
appropriate, as the consolidation loan would be at 9% interest, but because the accounts 
were now defaulted no interest or charges would ever be applied again.
Our investigator considered this  but still didnt think Lloyds had done enough. He said hed 
have expected Lloyds to try and proactively get in touch with Mr K given hed made steps to 
improve his financial situation before applying the defaults. He also didnt think Mr K not 
making token payments was likely to change things as Lloyds had already said they were 
going to default his accounts. Because of this, he maintained a fair outcome was to remove 
the defaults, update the credit reference agencies, allow Mr K to apply for a consolidation 
loan and provide £250 compensation.
Lloyds said they still didnt agree. They reiterated they werent asking for Mr Ks case to be 
passed to an ombudsman but were just asking for clarification on what more they could have 
done. They also asked how Mr K complied with the 30-day deadline  and said they had no 
clarity over Mr Ks financial situation so asked for information on this.
Our investigator still felt the outcome hed come to was fair. Lloyds said they werent able to 
confirm whether they accepted the outcome without further information though  they said 
they wanted to know when Mr K returned the loan agreement, that Mr K was well aware of 
his accounts being passed to recoveries, and hed not made a payment since 
November 2018. They also said theres no point in moving ahead with the outcome 
proposed if they dont understand Mr Ks current financial position  as he may not be able 
to sustain payments to the loan.
After further conversations Mr K confirmed his salary, which Lloyds reviewed. Lloyds said in 
response to this it seemed Mr Ks salary was now around half what it was before, so the 
consolidation loan wasnt appropriate.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain I first need to decide what, if anything, I think Lloyds did wrong. 
And, if I find they did do something wrong, the best way to put that right.
Lloyds have said as far as theyre concerned by offering Mr K a consolidation loan for his 
two credit cards and overdraft theyve treated him fairly. They said they were clear by when 
Mr K needed to return the loan consolidation form  and as it wasnt received then they were 
right to continue to default the credit card accounts at this time. They said they thought it 
possible the default notice sent on 29 May 2019 may have reminded Mr K about returning 
the loan form  which is why it wasnt received by them until June 2019. Lloyds also let us 
know the overdraft was defaulted in February 2020.
Having considered all the facts of the case though, I think Lloyds could have done more. 
Mr K proactively called up to discuss the financial difficulties he was having. He spent an 
hour on the phone talking about the consolidation loan and has said when asked he returned 
it within time.
Lloyds have said the forms werent received until 12 June 2019. But I dont think that can 
automatically mean Mr K didnt return them until after the deadline  its possible the forms 
were delayed in the post, or within Lloyds before being registered on their systems. So, in 
the absence of evidence to prove what happened I need to decide what I think is most likely. 
In this scenario, while I accept what Lloyds have said its possible, it seems more likely to me 
Mr K did return the forms in time  given he called up to discuss his situation and would be 
aware of the problems hed potentially be caused if he didnt. I think Lloyds could have made 
more efforts to contact Mr K to ask whatd happened - and potentially agreed a new 
timeframe for a consolidation loan  before applying the defaults on both his credit card 
accounts.
So, overall, I do think Lloyds could have done more which means I think they need to do 
something to put it right.
Ordinarily, wed try and put people back in to the position they would have been in, but for 
the error occurring  which is why our investigator recommended what he did. Here, Im 
saying the error is Lloyds not engaging with Mr K more which I think would more likely than 
not have led to the consolidation loan being put in place.
But, for reasons Ill go on to explain, putting the consolidation loan in place now isnt an 
option.This issue originally began in April 2019. At the time of Lloyds agreeing the consolidation 
loan they reviewed Mr Ks income and expenditure  to see how much he was earning, and 
whether he could afford the consolidation loan.
At this time Lloyds decided he could afford the consolidation loan. But, since then, Mr Ks 
income has dropped so Lloyds asked for an updated bank statement and income 
information. Mr K provided this and having done so Lloyds felt Mr K wouldnt be able to 
afford the consolidation loan now. Ive looked at bank statements and payslips Mr K has 
provided and am inclined to agree with Lloyds. Based on what Lloyds have said I think its 
likely if Mr K was given a new consolidation loan, as our investigator originally suggested 
before Mr Ks circumstances changed, then it doesnt look like hed be able to keep up the 
repayments on it.
So, given the consolidation loan now isnt an option, I need to work out the best way forward 
for this complaint. Due to the passage of time, and Mr Ks changing circumstances, I need to 
step back and decide what I think is fairest for Mr K and Lloyds going forward  factoring in 
that I do think Lloyds could have done more when this issue originally began.
The consolidation loan was going to repay two credit cards and an overdraft, so I think its 
appropriate to consider whats happened with each of these.
For the credit cards these were defaulted shortly after the expiry of the timescale to return 
the loan paperwork. This default process meant Mr Ks accounts were moved to Lloyds 
recoveries department, and no longer attracted any charges or interest. It does also mean 
Mr K had defaults placed on his credit file, for six years, in relation to these accounts.
Lloyds have said Mr K didnt make any payments to his credit card accounts between 
November 2018, and when the accounts were defaulted in May / June 2019. This includes 
not making token payments he was asked to make when applying for the consolidation loan.
Taking into account Mr Ks changing circumstances, it seems likely to me that telling Lloyds 
to take the accounts back from their recoveries department puts Mr K in a worse position. I 
say that because I cant see that hes in a position to repay the amounts owed now, so it 
seems possible these accounts would default at some point in the near future if I were to tell 
Lloyds to do this. Given defaults stay on someones record for six years, it seems to leave 
Mr K in a better position if I dont order them removed now. Nearly two years have passed, 
so theyll stay on his record for a further four years. But, if I tell Lloyds to take the accounts 
out of their recoveries department  and Mr K defaults again in the future, which as Ive said 
seems at least possible given his current circumstances, then theyd stay on his account for 
a further six years. And if Lloyds were to pull the accounts back it seems likely theyd begin 
to add charges and interest again  increasing Mr Ks debt further.
So, for those reasons I dont think its appropriate to tell Lloyds to bring the accounts out of 
recoveries or remove the defaults that have been applied.In relation to the overdraft Lloyds have said this defaulted in February 2020 and isnt part of 
this complaint. But I dont agree. The consolidation loan was also for the overdraft  so the 
consequences of what happened is very much part of this complaint.
Here, Lloyds have said they didnt default the account until February 2020. I understand at 
this time theyve referred the account to their recoveries department. So, no interest or 
charges have been applied since then, and a default was registered for this account also.
For similar reasons to the credit card accounts, I wont be telling Lloyds to remove the 
default for the overdraft. But I do think its likely theyll need to refund some interest / 
charges.
As Ive explained above, I think if Lloyds had done more, theyd have put a consolidation 
loan in place. This loan was at an interest rate of 9%, but overdraft interest is often more. So, 
I think between 21 May 2019 when the consolidation loan could have been put in place, to 
when the account was defaulted on or after February 2020, Lloyds need to refund any 
interest over and above the 9% Mr K had agreed to pay. Lloyds should also provide a 
calculation to Mr K so he can see what theyve done. I should explain to Mr K Id expect this 
interest to be returned to the account thereby reducing his debt, rather than it being refunded 
to him directly. This is because these interest and charges were applied to the account itself 
 and not money Mr K has had to pay out directly.
I also think compensation is appropriate. In essence I think Lloyds didnt do enough to 
support Mr K in getting the consolidation loan in place. Because of that, any consequences 
coming out of that are Lloyds responsibility. Mr K has said he was contacted by debt 
collectors which caused him a lot of distress. Hes also had a considerable period of time 
now where he didnt know what the correct financial situation was for him with these 
accounts. So taking everything into account, and considering the impact on Mr K, I think an 
award of £500 is a fairer reflection of the issues hes experienced.
The effect of my decision will leave Mr K with three accounts currently with Lloyds 
recoveries team. Mr K should work with Lloyds to agree an affordable way to begin repaying 
this debt  and Ill remind Lloyds theyre required to treat Mr K positively and sympathetically.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K replied and let us know he accepted my provisional decision.
Lloyds didnt reply before the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K accepted my provisional decision, and Lloyds didnt reply by the deadline  so I see no 
reason to change my original outcome.  
Putting things right
I order Lloyds to:
1. Calculate all charges and interest applied to Mr Ks current account between 
21 May 2019 to when the account was placed in default on or after February 20202. Calculate the amount of interest Mr K would have paid on his consolidation loan, for 
the amount of the overdraft he was consolidating
3. Subtract (2) from (1) and then apply the remaining figure to the outstanding balance 
of Mr Ks current account overdraft.
4. Pay Mr K, to an account of his choice, £500 compensation
5. Provide a breakdown to Mr K so he can see whats been applied and where
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint, and order Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the actions in the 
Putting things right section above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman