DRN-2220579
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs E in 1996, in connection with a 
mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr E if he couldnt work because of accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Halifax give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed to decide whether to take out 
the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es case and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E point out that when Halifax first replied to their complaint, it said the policy had 
been taken out in Mrs Es name. This was an error, as the policy covered Mr E. I can see 
why Halifaxs mistake would cause a lack of confidence in its investigation for Mr and Mrs E. 
But having considered Halifaxs letter in the context of all of the wider evidence, Im satisfied 
that it was a genuine error and that the correct sale was considered by Halifax in response to 
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs E say the PPI was presented as part of their overall mortgage package, and that 
they were put under pressure to buy it to get the mortgage they wanted. Ive noted 
everything Mr and Mrs E have said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs E and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events happened over twenty 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Halifax hasnt been able much evidence from the point of sale, which isnt surprising given 
the amount of time thats passed. I realise Mr and Mrs E consider the bank should be able to 
provide specific evidence of what happened. But we wouldnt expect a business to retain 
historic records indefinitely. Im not persuaded that lack of evidence from Halifax means that 
I should automatically conclude the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs E have helpfully provided copies of the paperwork they received from Halifax in 
connection with their mortgage. I can see that the mortgage offer included a special note 
about PPI. But Im not persuaded that this amounted to a condition of the mortgage, and Ive 
seen nothing else to suggest that Mr and Mrs E had to buy the PPI to get the loan they 
wanted. 
So without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs E have told me, I dont think I can fairly 
and reasonably say that Halifax didnt make them aware that the PPI was optional.
Halifax has accepted that it advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr E was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
- Mr E says he was entitled to employer sick pay if he couldnt work due to sickness or 
accident, and that he and Mrs E had other arrangements in place to protect them if things 
went wrong. 
But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Es employer benefits and would do so, it 
seems, for longer. In addition, the additional sickness cover Mr E has referred to wouldnt 
have been payable until hed been working for his employer for three years. So Mr E 
wouldnt have been entitled to that cover at the time he bought the PPI.
The life cover hes mentioned (through his employer and endowment policy) wouldve only 
paid out on death, whereas the PPI covered sickness and accident. 
So overall, I think Mr and Mrs E wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their existing 
arrangements. 
- Mr E wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As he 
could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely he and Mrs E needed 
better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs E before they agreed to buy 
it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for it. The policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr E wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman