DRN-3577305
The complaint
Mr S complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) has failed to deduct the correct 
recurring advisor charges from his pension savings. And he complains that ATS has failed to 
invest his regular contributions to his pension, leaving them instead on deposit and earning 
no interest.
What happened
Mr S has been assisted in making this complaint by his financial advisor. That advisor was 
also responsible for the original advice that Mr S received (that I noted in my provisional 
decision), for the management of his pension savings, and was the recipient of the advisor 
charges paid by ATS. But, for ease, in this decision I will generally refer to all communication 
about the complaint as having been with, and from, Mr S himself.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what ATS needed to do in order to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, I include some extracts from it 
below. In my decision I said;
In 2016 Mr S received some advice from the financial advisor about his pension 
savings. As a result of that advice he agreed to transfer his pension savings into a 
self-administered personal pension (SIPP) provided by ATS. He agreed to pay his 
financial advisor 1.5% of the transferred funds for the advice, and an ongoing charge 
of 0.6% per annum of his pension savings for the ongoing management of his funds. 
He agreed that the ongoing charges should be paid monthly by ATS by deduction 
from his pension savings. And following the advice Mr S agreed to make regular 
contributions of £200 per month to his pension savings.
When Mr Ss instructions were set up by ATS an error was made. The proportionate 
ongoing advisor fee should have been set at 0.05% per month (0.6% divided by 
12 months). But ATS incorrectly set up the fee at 0.5% per month (6% per annum). 
ATSs error wasnt noticed until Mr S was moved to a new processing system in 
2019. ATS calculated that Mr S had overpaid advisor charges amounting to just over 
£8,400.
 
Mr Ss original application form for the SIPP didnt include any investment 
instructions. The financial advisor later inputted a one-off instruction for the 
investment of the originally transferred pension savings. But ATS says no instructions 
were provided for the investment of Mr Ss regular monthly contributions. So those 
contributions were held as cash deposits and used, in part, to pay the monthly 
advisor charges. Mr Ss financial advisor provided ATS with new investment 
instructions in July 2020.
When Mr S made his complaint to ATS it accepted that the advisor charges it had 
deducted from his pension savings were incorrect. It offered Mr S £100 for the 
trouble and upset hed been caused. But it noted that the funds had been paid to 
Mr Ss advisor so it asked that firm to repay the overpayment to Mr S. The financial 
advisor firm declined that request noting that it had received the payments in good 
faith. And ATS said that it had been correct in the way it had not invested the regular 
monthly contributions  the advisor had not provided any directions for the 
investment on the SIPP application form.
I dont think there is much dispute that ATS has deducted an incorrect amount of 
advisor charges from Mr Ss pension savings. And I think it is similarly clear that 
those excess deductions have been paid to Mr Ss advisor. But, this complaint is 
dealing with the relationship between Mr S and ATS  not that between Mr S and his 
financial advisor, or any agreements between the financial advisor and ATS. So my 
powers are limited to looking at whether ATS has treated Mr S fairly, and if not, what 
ATS needs to do to put things right.
 
It seems that the charges instruction that Mr S provided to ATS was clear. As a result 
ATS should have deduct 0.05% of his pension savings each month, and paid that 
sum to his advisor. ATS has not complied with that instruction. Whilst it is 
disappointing that Mr Ss financial advisor didnt notice the mistake earlier, and that it 
has been reluctant to return the overpayment to ATS, those are not the fault of Mr S. 
I think that Mr S has a reasonable expectation that ATS will put right the mistake that 
it made. And if it needs to take any further action to recover those monies, say from 
the financial advisor, the success or otherwise of those actions should have no 
bearing on the compensation that is paid to Mr S.
ATSs own calculations suggest that it has taken excess charges from Mr S 
amounting to £8,403.63. I can see no reason why ATS should not return those funds 
to Mr Ss pension savings immediately.
I turn now to the investment instructions that were provided to ATS in relation to 
Mr Ss regular monthly contributions.
Mr S made his application to ATS via a paper application form  it seems likely that 
the form was completed on his behalf by his financial advisor. Section 12 of that form 
relates to Investment Instructions. That part of the form was not completed when it 
was sent in to ATS.
The explanatory text to that section of the application form reads;
If you have not yet decided which investments you would like to make you 
may leave this section blank and your cash will be placed on deposit. We do 
not currently pay interest on cash deposits within our platform product 
range.
So I think it is clear from that text that Mr Ss failure to complete the investment 
instructions would reasonably lead to ATS leaving his contributions on deposit, and 
earning no interest. And that is what happened.
I have no doubts that wasnt the intention of Mr S, or his financial advisor. They have 
pointed out that accompanying the application form was an illustration showing 
potential investment returns should the contributions be invested in certain assets. 
But I dont think the illustration gave any direction, or authority, for ATS to make 
those investments. So I dont think ATS has done anything wrong in relation to this 
part of the complaint.I have noted that Mr S has been encouraged by the financial advisor to make a 
complaint about its failure to provide investments instructions. Since there is a 
possibility that complaint might arrive with this Service for our consideration I am not 
making any finding that the advisor was at fault for the lack of investment 
instructions. But I am entirely sure that ATS doesnt bear that responsibility, and so 
doesnt need to compensate Mr S for the period of time, between 2016 and 2020 that 
his contributions were not correctly invested.
But, as I said earlier, on 21 July 2020 Mr Ss financial advisor did provide ATS with 
valid investment instructions. And so Mr Ss pension savings were moved off the 
cash deposit around that time. So that means that, had ATS not made a mistake in 
the level of charges that it deducted, the excess amount would have also benefitted 
from investment returns from that date. So those additional returns should also form 
part of the compensation that ATS pays to Mr S.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mr S said that he accepted my provisional decision. ATS raised some 
questions in relation to what I said needed to be done in order to put things right.
ATS no longer holds detailed information relating to the individual charges that were 
deducted from Mr Ss pension savings. It asked whether, should that information not be 
available, it would be reasonable to base the redress on the amount noted in my provisional 
decision (£8,403.63). And since it would also be unable to identify the exact date on which 
the charges were taken, it asked for guidance on how it could establish any investment 
losses that had arisen.
Mr S has since confirmed that he thinks it reasonable to consider the amount of charges 
deducted as £8,403.63 in the absence of any other confirmatory information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party has disagreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to alter 
those conclusions. But I will provide a little further discussion about the redress that is 
payable in light of the questions posed by ATS.
Both parties appear to agree that it would be reasonable to consider the amount of excess 
charges deducted by ATS as £8,403.63. I am content that is the best representation we 
have available of those excess charges and so think it reasonable for that amount to be 
used as the basis of the redress that is paid to Mr S.
As I noted in my provisional decision, an error appeared to have been made in failing to add 
investment instructions for Mr Ss pension savings  although I didnt think ATS was 
responsible for that error. So the excess charges that were deducted would not have 
benefitted from any investment returns until that error was corrected. And my understanding 
is that the excess charges had stopped being deducted before the investment instructions 
were corrected. So I dont think the exact timing of the charges deductions matters  they 
wouldnt have initially benefited from any investment returns even if theyd remained within 
Mr Ss pension savings. So it is entirely reasonable for ATS, when calculating the 
compensation due to Mr S, to treat the excess charge amount as having been added back 
into Mr Ss pension savings on the day before the investment instructions were corrected 
(21 July 2020).Putting things right
ATS acted incorrectly in deducting charges from Mr Ss pension savings at the rate of 0.5% 
per month. It should instead have deducted charges at the rate of 0.05% per month. So to 
put things right I direct ATS to; 
Refund the additional charges that have been deducted from Mr Ss pension savings 
as a result of its error. I agree that a reasonable estimation of those total additional 
charges is £8,403.63
Add investment returns to that sum, equivalent to the returns seen on Mr Ss 
remaining pension savings between 21 July 2020 and the date of my final decision.
The compensation should be paid into Mr S's SIPP. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If ATS is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. I think that its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely 
to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, Mr S would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, so the reduction should 
be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Should the compensation not be paid to Mr S within 28 days of his acceptance of my final 
decision, ATS should add further compensatory interest at a rate of 8% per annum to the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
ATS should also pay the sum of £100 that it has already offered to Mr S for the trouble and 
upset he has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Alliance Trust Savings Limited 
to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman