DRN-3423683
The complaint
Mr B and Ms B complain that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has turned down a 
cancellation claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr B and Ms B booked a holiday abroad. They were due to travel between 10 
and 24 September 2019. Alongside their holiday booking, they took out a single trip travel 
insurance policy to cover the trip.
Sadly, in late August 2019, Ms Bs mother passed away. And so Mr B and Ms B cancelled 
their trip in early September. They made a claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs 
associated with their booking.
URV turned down the claim. It obtained medical evidence from Ms Bs mothers GP, which 
showed that shed been diagnosed with lung cancer around two and a half months before 
the trip was booked and the policy was purchased. And it noted that the death certificate 
showed that lung cancer was a contributory cause of Ms Bs mothers death. URV said the 
policy specifically excluded claims which arose from the medical condition of a policyholders 
relative which existed before a policy was taken out. So it said the claim wasnt covered.
But URV accepted that thered been delays in its handling of the claim. Itd received all of the 
medical information it needed to make a claims decision in late March 2020, but it hadnt told 
Mr B and Ms B its claims decision until August 2020. It recognised that this was likely to 
have caused Mr B and Ms B some upset and so it paid them £250 compensation.
Mr B and Ms B were unhappy with URVs decision and so they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms made it 
clear that URV didnt cover claims which were caused by the pre-existing condition of a 
policyholders relative. And he considered the medical evidence showed that lung cancer 
was a contributory factor in Ms Bs mothers death. So he concluded itd been reasonable for 
URV to decide the claim wasnt covered. He did agree that URV hadnt handled the claim as 
well as it couldve done though and so he thought that the £250 compensation URV had paid 
was fair.
Mr B and Ms B disagreed. In summary, they felt it was unfair to rely on a link between 
pneumonia - which was Ms Bs mothers direct cause of death - and lung cancer. Theyd 
been told theyd get a claims decision within 10-15 days, but theyd had to wait months, 
which had taken a toll on Ms Bs mental health and life. Theyd made around 20 calls to URV 
to chase up the claim. Theyd believed that being insured meant everything would be 
covered.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B and Ms B, I think that it was fair for 
URV to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr B and Ms B for their sad loss. I 
appreciate that this has been a very distressing time for them both and Im sorry to hear 
about Ms Bs own ill-health. 
But, as the investigator explained, I need to decide whether URV met its regulatory 
obligations to handle this claim promptly and fairly. And not to turn down the claim 
unreasonably. So Ive looked carefully at, amongst other things, the policy terms and the 
available medical evidence, to decide whether URV handled the claim fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr B and Ms B and URV. Theres no doubt that Mr B and Ms Bs holiday had to be 
cancelled before they were due to travel. So I think it was reasonable for URV to consider 
the claim under Section 1  If you are unable to go on your trip. This section does provide 
cover for the cancellation of a policyholders holiday because of the illness or death of a 
close relative. However, this section of the policy also sets out a list of things which URV 
specifically excludes from cover. One of these says:
BE AWARE  No cover is provided under this section for:
a previously diagnosed condition of any close relatives, your travelling companion, the 
person you are intending to stay with, or a business associate.
Page six of the policy is titled: Disclosure of Your Medical Conditions and sets out a 
flowchart which explains potential cover for pre-existing medical conditions. One of the 
questions set out in the flowchart asks:
Do any close relatives, business associates or friends who are not travelling with you or who 
are not insured with us have an existing medical condition (even if considered as stable, 
under control or in remission)?
If a policyholder answers yes, then they are directed to a box which says:
BE AWARE!
We are unable to provide cover for any claim arising as a result of an existing medical 
condition of a non-travelling close relative, the person you are intending to stay with, or a 
business associate or friend, or any known or recognised complication of or caused by the 
existing medical condition.
In my view then, the terms of Mr B and Ms Bs contract with URV make it clear that URV 
wont cover claims which are caused by an existing medical condition of a policyholders 
close relative. URV considers that Mr B and Ms Bs trip had to be cancelled because of a 
pre-existing condition of Ms Bs mother. A policyholders parent or grandparent does fall 
within URVs definition of a close relative. So Ive gone on to explore whether it was fair for 
URV to conclude that the claim was specifically excluded by looking closely at the available 
medical evidence.Ive looked carefully at a copy of Ms Bs mothers death certificate. This states that the 
immediate cause of death (1(a)) was pneumonia. But it also states that cause 1(b) was lung 
cancer. This means that lung cancer was the condition which led to pneumonia. And it also 
means that the coroner who completed Ms Bs mothers death certificate believed that lung 
cancer was the cause of the pneumonia which led to her death. On this basis then, I find it 
was fair and reasonable for URV to conclude that Ms Bs mothers death did arise from lung 
cancer. That means I now need to consider whether I think Ms Bs mothers diagnosis of 
lung cancer existed before the policy was taken out and the trip was booked.
URV asked Ms Bs mothers doctor for information about her health so it could establish 
when she received a diagnosis. The doctor stated that Ms Bs mother had been diagnosed 
with lung cancer on 28 March 2019, following a CT scan which had taken place during a 
hospital admission a few weeks earlier. That scan had identified a mass. The holiday was 
booked in early June 2019  over two months after Ms Bs mother received the diagnosis. 
So I dont think it was unfair for URV to conclude that this condition was existing when the 
policy was taken out. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest that Ms B and 
Mr B didnt know about Ms Bs mothers illness at the time the trip was booked.
On this basis, whilst I sympathise with Mr B and Ms Bs position, as I appreciate theyve 
been left substantially out of pocket and werent able to enjoy a holiday theyd really been 
looking forward to. But based on the evidence Ive seen; I dont think it was unfair for URV to 
conclude that Mr B and Ms Bs claim was caused by the pre-existing medical condition of a 
close relative and that it was therefore excluded from cover.
However, what is clear is that URV didnt handle this claim as well as it shouldve done. 
While I appreciate URV couldnt make a claims decision until it received the doctors report, 
it received all of the information it needed to turn down Mr B and Ms Bs claim in late March 
2020. But it didnt let Mr B and Ms B know the outcome until August 2020  around five 
months later. I can see that Ms B had to chase up the claim during this period, in July 2020, 
and I dont doubt that such a long delay in assessing the claim and providing a claims 
decision caused Mr B and Ms B additional inconvenience and worry at an already very 
upsetting time. So I dont think URV met its regulatory obligation to handle the claim 
promptly and I think its appropriate for URV to pay compensation to reflect this.
I do need to bear in mind though that Ms B only called once between March and late July 
2020 to chase up progress. And that I appreciate Mr B and Ms B were already very 
distressed by the sad death of Ms Bs mother, rather than being additionally distressed 
because of anything more that URV did wrong. So in the round, Im satisfied that £250 is fair 
compensation for URVs delays and reasonably reflects the impact I think these delays had 
on Mr B and Ms B. 
Overall, I find that URV has treated Mr B and Ms B fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman