DRN-2559102
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy with the time taken to receive a store card from Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited (trading as Argos).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
I do understand Miss Ps frustration that she didnt receive the store card on a few 
occasions. Its difficult to know whos to blame for this  Argos or problems with the 
post. 
But, even if Argos was to blame, I dont think it needs to do anything to put things 
right. 
Miss P said that not having the card meant shed fewer months to repay the balance 
before the interest-free period came to an end. Thats because she needed the card 
to access the app, her preferred way to repay. 
But there were other ways Miss P couldve repaid her balance. Miss P said she 
wouldnt have done, as she didnt feel comfortable doing this when the card hadnt 
arrived. But this was to repay her account, not the individual card number. 
And if Miss P didnt feel comfortable with that, she couldve put money aside each 
month. She said she shouldnt have had to  but I dont think its an unreasonable or 
particularly inconvenient ask. 
So, Im not persuaded that the issue with the store card arriving was a significant 
cause in any struggles Miss P had in repaying the balance  because I think there 
were other ways around it.  
Miss P also said she didnt get a final letter from Argos in response to her complaint. 
But Ive seen a copy of the one it sent to her address. While Im not sure it was right 
to say her concerns had been resolved, it still gave her the option to come to our 
service if she was unhappy, which Miss P did. So, I dont think this has materially 
affected her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman