DRN-1984906
 
The complaint
Mrs I is unhappy that an international money transfer she made with Santander UK Plc has 
not reached the intended recipient.
What happened
Mrs I made an international money transfer at a branch of Santander to send money to her 
brother in the United States.
About a week later Mrs I contacted Santander as her brother had not received the money. It 
turns out that Mrs I had made a mistake with her brother's account number in the information 
she gave Santander. The correct account number was then given to Santander who took 
action to get the money to the right account.
Unfortunately the money still hasn't reached Mrs I's brother.
Santander tried to trace the money but wasn't successful in either getting the money back or 
finding out exactly where it was. Mrs I was unhappy with this so brought her complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. She thought Santander had done all 
they could to find the money. Mrs I disagreed saying Santander should be held responsible 
for the whereabouts of the money, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I wanted to send money to her brother's bank account in the United States. 
Because Santander doesn't have a direct relationship with the receiving bank, where Mrs I's 
brother has an account, the money is sent via another bank that passes the money on. This 
is known as a correspondent bank. It's this correspondent bank that Santander have been 
dealing with.
I'm sorry to hear that the money Mrs I sent hasn't reached her brother in the United States. 
It's not an insubstantial sum and what happened has clearly been a stressful time for her.
The terms and conditions of Mrs I's account say that Santander will not be liable for any loss 
in an international transfer where they're given incorrect payment details;which is what 
happened here. However, just relying on the terms and conditions isn't always enough.
When mistakes like this happen I expect Santander to take all reasonable steps to put things 
right. Looking at what Santander did I'm satisfied they've done all they can to help. But 
unfortunately the money is still missing.The transfer was done in a branch of Santander where Mrs I was given the opportunity to 
check the details before the money was sent. It's right for Santander to have consumers 
check this important information before making the transfer.
When Santander found out about the mistake in the account number they passed this 
information on to the correspondent bank on the same day. The correspondent bank 
acknowledged this information and sent it on the receiving bank.
Santander continued to chase the correspondent bank over the coming weeks as Mrs I's 
brother still hadn't received the money. They also sent a request for the funds to be recalled, 
but this was unsuccessful. I've seen copies of the many messages sent to the correspondent 
bank, as has Mrs I, and I'm happy that Santander acted timely and appropriately.
I can't say where the money is, and that's not a matter for me to decide. What I'm 
considering is the actions taken by Santander after Mrs I told them about the mistake with 
the account number. Ultimately this problem has come about due to a mistake with the 
account number which wasn't the fault of Santander.
In her complaint Mrs I says that she thinks Santander still has the money as it wasn't 
received by her brother. However looking at the evidence this isn't the case. Santander sent 
the money as instructed. It went to the correspondent bank who, from looking at the 
messages, sent it to the receiving bank, albeit with the incorrect account number. So I'm 
confident that Santander does not have the money.
Having looked at the evidence I'm satisfied Santander have taken all reasonable steps they 
could to help Mrs I locate the missing money. This clearly doesn't resolve the problem for 
Mrs I as her brother doesn't have the money, but I don't think there is any more that 
Santander can do.
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman