DRN-3710802
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) rejected his claim against
it under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr S bought solar panels for his home in 2015. The purchase was funded by a loan from
Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer
under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr S into
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the
documents provided by the installer had made it clear that the panels would not be self-
funding, so its unlikely that Mr S has been told the panels would be self-funding.
Mr S (through his representatives didnt agree) and pointed out that the sales document
actually shows that the panels would be self-funding from the outset and is consistent with
Mr Ss testimony.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
In my provisional decision of 2 September 2022, I set out why I was intending to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Shawbrook replied accepting my provisional findings and 
requested copies of Mr Ss utility bills and Feed in tariff (FIT) statements to enable it to carry 
out a redress calculation. Mr S nor his representatives made any further comments. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand that our adjudicator felt the sales document provided by the installer showed
the panels would not be self-funding from the start. However, I dont agree.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr S could expect to
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the table is clear, and that Mr S could expect to receive a total FIT income in year
one of £608.11. The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr S could expect from
the system. The expected year one electricity savings is £517.39 and, when taking into
account the optional extras chosen by Mr S the combined income and savings in year one is
shown as £1,561.50. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would be a monthly
loan repayment due of £127.15, and 12 months of payments equals £1,525.80 which is less
than the income and savings Mr S was told he could expect to achieve. The quote does,
therefore, indicate the total benefit Mr S was told he would likely achieve (in FIT payments
and savings on his energy bills), would cover his finance payments.
Additionally, theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments
over 60 months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this
is the length of the loan that Mr S entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £127.15. For each year of the 15-year loan it shows
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months,
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £127.15, to give an average difference
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year.
I think the table clearly sets out the benefit Mr S could expect to receive from the system, by
way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan
repayments. I think he was entitled to rely on it. The table does clearly set out that the overall
income he could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would
immediately be sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments, and actually make a profit
too. The table above shows that the system was expected to pay for itself from the first
month following installation, with an average monthly profit during the first year of £4.48.
Mr S has said he was verbally told that the benefit he would receive by way of FIT
payments and additional savings would cover his monthly finance costs, and this is why he
bought the system. Mr Ss testimony has been clear and consistent.
I think the quote is good evidence of the likely discussions Mr S would have had with the
installer. And it seems to corroborate Mr Ss testimony, that he was told the financial benefits
provided by the system would cover his monthly costs from the outset.
But it has since turned out that that did not happen. Based on the FIT statements and utility
bills provided by Mr S, Mr Ss yearly benefit has been around £1,014.23 (taken from his first-
year FIT payment of £598.72 and average first year electricity saving of £415.51).
So, having reviewed everything provided, I currently think the evidence supports the
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr S was not given clear information to
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Shawbrook didnt treat Mr S fairly and he lost out because of what
Shawbrook did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. With this in mind, I uphold this 
complaint. 
Fair compensation  what Shawbrook needs to do to put things right for Mr S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances of Mr Ss complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr S from the solar
panels over the 15-year term of the loan so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended.
In the event the calculation shows that Mr S is paying (or has paid) more than he should
have Shawbrook needs to reimburse Mr S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with
Mr S by way of explanation.
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require
Shawbrook to restructure Mr Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr S in a position
where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the 15-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mr Ss monthly repayments would reduce,
meaning that he wouldve paid more each month than he shouldve done resulting in an
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr S
have the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and hepays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he continues to make his current monthly
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mr S and he pays a new monthly payment until the
end of the loan term.
If Mr S accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept. 
If Mr S has settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay Mr S the difference between what he
paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8%
interest.
If Mr S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mr S should supply evidence of the refinance to
Shawbrook, and Shawbrook should:
1. Refund the extra Mr S paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr S paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr S receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr S first
contacted Shawbrook that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct
Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman