DRN-4274560
The complaint
Mr P complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly terminated his student loans.
What happened
Mr P had two student loans with Erudio that were taken out in 1997 and successfully applied 
for deferments from repayments. Mr P has explained that since 2015 Erudio sent him email 
reminders in advance of his deferment periods coming to an end, asking him to complete a 
new application. But in 2021, Erudio says it stopped sending emails of this nature. 
Erudio says it sent Mr P various letters and correspondence in respect of his student loan 
deferment. On 25 April 2021, Erudio sent Mr P a letter including a deferment application 
form (DAF). On 22 May 2021 Erudio sent Mr P a reminder and on 22 June 2021 Erudio 
issued a letter advising the deferment period had ended and that monthly payments of 
£94.02 would become due from 20 July 2021. 
In July 2021, when no deferment application was received and no payment made, Erudio 
issued an arrears letter. In August 2021 another arrears letter was issued. Mr P has told us 
he didnt receive any of the above letters sent by Erudio. 
In September 2021 Erudio issued an annual statement to Mr P, which hes confirmed was 
received. 
Erudio issued a default notice to Mr Ps address on 4 September 2021 and, when no contact 
was received, a termination letter on 22 October 2021. On 2 November 2021 Erudio issued 
a letter confirming the account had been terminated and closed. As a result, Mr P lost the 
ability to complete further deferments and his student loans were no longer eligible to be 
written off. 
A third party business Ill call C was appointed to collect the outstanding balance and 
contacted Mr P. Mr P went on to raise a complaint with Erudio and said he hadnt received 
an email as normal to advise he needed to complete a new deferment application. Mr P also 
explained he hadnt received any of Erudios letters, except the annual statement it sent that 
didnt make the status of his account clear. 
Erudio issued a final response on 15 November 2022 but didnt agree it had made mistakes 
with Mr Ps loans. Erudio said it had issued the relevant notices to let Mr P know the status 
of his account. Erudio said that once the account was terminated and no repayment plan 
was in existence it had the option of referring the debt to a third party business to collect 
which is why it had appointed C. Erudio also said that since the loans had been terminated, 
they were no longer eligible to be written off after 25 years or when Mr P reached 50. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ps complaint. They thought Erudio had dealt with 
Mr Ps case fairly and didnt uphold his case. Mr P asked to appeal and reiterated that Erudio 
had failed to send its normal email in advance of the end of his deferment in June 2021. Mr 
P also explained no post had been received and suggested Erudio hadnt sent the letters it 
claims to have issued. Mr P added that Erudios claim it had to send some letters by post 
was shown to be wrong on the basis it had issued its final response via email. As Mr P 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
Mr P has made various submissions concerning how hes previously corresponded with 
Erudio in relation to his deferment applications. Mr P says for six years Erudio emailed him 
in advance of the end of his deferment period to remind him to apply for another. But Erudio 
accepts that in 2021 it didnt email Mr P and says, instead, it wrote to him. 
I appreciate thats a change in practice. But Ive looked at the credit agreement and 
associated terms and conditions and theres no reference to the lender being obliged to send 
email reminders before the end of a deferment period. What the terms say is that deferment 
applications can be made annually on the basis of an applicants income. The credit 
agreement adds that a deferment will last for 12 months from the date advised, once 
approved. I also note that section 10 of the credit agreement says any notices, demands and 
statements will be sent to the last known address. So whilst I understand Erudio had 
previously sent emails before the end of the deferment period, the credit agreement didnt 
specifically require it to do so but did say letters would be issued. 
Ive considered whether it was fair for Erudio to stop sending the email without first telling Mr 
P. But I think Erudio makes a reasonable point when it says it issued the reminders (and 
follow up collections letters) to Mr P by post at his registered address. Whilst Erudio didnt 
send the email it had previously issued, it did take other steps that were in line with the loan 
agreements terms. 
Mr P has given us a number of scenarios in terms of whether the letters were sent by Erudio. 
But Ive seen copies of all the letters Erudio says it sent and Im satisfied they were issued 
as claimed. I appreciate Mr P may feel something underhand has occurred, but Ive not 
found evidence to support that. Im satisfied Erudio has provided the relevant copies and that 
theyre all correctly addressed, in line with the records we hold. 
Mr P has told us the letters Erudo says it issued both before and after the termination of his 
student loans werent received. But Erudio has provided copies of its correspondence and 
systems information that show they were sent. Where the circumstances of a complaint are 
disputed by the parties involved Ill make my decision based on the available evidence and 
balance of probabilities. That is what I consider to have most likely occurred based on all the 
available information. 
In this case, both parties dispute whether deferment and arrears correspondence was 
provided. I appreciate Mr Ps point that the letters werent received. But Im satisfied the 
information on file shows Erudio did send Mr P letters that asked him to complete a 
deferment application as well as information to let him know his account had fallen behind 
and was later terminated. Having reviewed the relevant correspondence, I think its more likely than not that correspondence was received by Mr P. I havent been persuaded that 
Erudio made errors in terms of the correspondence it issued to Mr P. 
I also think its fair to note that Mr P had completed the deferment process on various 
occasions and appears to have a good understanding of the process. I think Mr P wouldve 
been aware of the requirement to complete an annual deferment application, with his 
deferment period ending in June each year. So when no deferment email reminder was 
received, Mr P had the option of contacting Erudio directly to check whether his deferment 
arrangements remained in place. But despite the deferment ending in June 2021, theres no 
evidence of any contact from Mr P until his loan was passed to C to collect. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I havent been persuaded that Erudio made any errors in 
terms of the way it communicated with him prior to the end of his existing deferment period 
in 2021. And as no deferment was approved and no payments made, Im satisfied Erudio 
had reasonable grounds to terminate the loans, in line with the credit agreement. I 
appreciate Mr P was close to the point he wouldve been able to apply for a write off but as 
the loans were correctly terminated Im unable to say Erudio has acted unfairly. 
Erudio has explained its agent, C, was appointed to collect the outstanding balance. I can 
see that a firm of solicitors, D, has also been instructed to attempt collection from Mr P. I 
understand my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr P. But as Im satisfied 
Erudio followed the right process and Im not telling it to reinstate his loans, he now has the 
option of engaging with the third parties appointed. I would expect any repayment plan that 
is agreed to be affordable and suitable for Mr Ps circumstances. 
Id like to reiterate that Ive read and considered all the points raised by Mr P as well as all 
the information on file. Having done so, Im satisfied Erudio fairly took the decision to 
terminate Mr Ps loans after the deferment period ended in 2021. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr P but I havent been persuaded to uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman