DRN-4173859
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In August 2022 Mr W applied for a credit card with HSBC. HSBC approved the application 
and gave Mr W a card with an initial credit limit of £3000.
Mr W complained that HSBC had lent to him irresponsibly. HSBC didnt uphold the 
complaint, It said it had carried out proportionate checks before lending to Mr W.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that HSBC hadnt made a fair lending 
decision because Mr W hadnt been left with sufficient disposable income to sustainably 
repay the loan once all his other expenses and credit commitment had been paid.
HSBC accepted the investigators view and said it would refund interest and charges to Mr 
W.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he wanted HSBC to write off all or part of the balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ws complaint.
HSBC has agreed that it lent irresponsibly to Mr W. So, I wont be commenting further on 
whether reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out and whether the lending 
decision was fair.
Mr W has said that he disagrees with the investigators view because he wants the 
outstanding balance on the account written off, either in whole or in part. His rationale for 
requesting this is that the credit shouldnt have been approved in the first place.
I understand that Mr W feels that he shouldnt have been given the credit because he had 
significant other borrowings at the time. However, it isnt generally the approach of this 
service to ask a business to write off a balance in these circumstances. Mr W has had the 
benefit of the money and whilst its the case that the lending decision wasnt fair, the 
appropriate redress here is for HSBC to refund all interest and charges that Mr W has paid.
I appreciate that this leaves Mr W with an outstanding balance to repay. Id expect HSBC to 
agree an affordable payment plan with him going forwards.
Putting things right 
To put things right, HSBC should:
Refund all interest and charges paid by Mr W to date.
If the borrowing is still in place, HSBC should reduce the outstanding balance by the amount 
above
If an outstanding balance remains, HSBC should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or 
future interest or charges. If there is a positive balance, the amount should be given back to 
Mr W together with 8% interest*
If an outstanding balance remains HSBC should arrange an affordable repayment plan with 
Mr W. Once Mr W has cleared the balance any adverse information relating to the account 
should be removed from Mr Ws credit file.
*HMRC require the business to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman