DRN-2332573
The complaint
Mr B complains how Hippo Vehicle Solutions Limited trading as Hippo Motor Group, (Hippo) 
dealt with matters when he tried to enter into a hire agreement for a car. 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr B contacted Hippo to discuss entering into a finance agreement in order to 
hire a car. In this instance, Hippo was acting as the credit broker with a panel of several 
financial lenders. In order to check Mr Bs eligibility before a full finance application was 
made, Hippo carried out soft credit checks to see if any of the financial businesses would 
be willing to lend to but Mr B didnt meet the lenders criteria so no credit was offered. 
Mr B complained about a number of issues but in summary he felt his personal 
circumstances werent taken into account before the credit checks were carried out and 
instead the advisor was more interested in earning commission. He said he initially told them 
that he had a poor credit rating and he wanted to see if a guarantor would be an option but 
this was never considered by Hippo, nor was the process explained to him. He also 
complained the credit checks had affected his credit rating and as a result, it had caused him 
stress and upset. 
Hippo said before Mr B spoke to their advisor, they sent an initial disclosure document along 
with information about the financial products they offer and how they would use his personal 
information. They said soft credit checks were carried out to see what lenders may be 
prepared to lend but this had no impact on his credit file.  They said their panel of lenders do 
offer guarantor options in certain circumstances however as Mr B didnt meet the relevant 
criteria. Lastly, they said their products and processes were made clear to Mr B and as no 
agreement was set up, no commission was received by them.
Unhappy with their response, Mr B referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
recommended the case wasnt upheld. They believed Hippo had dealt with the matter fairly. 
Although they accepted the guarantor options werent discussed during the call with Hippos 
advisor, they felt this had no negative impact as a lender must first agree to lend to Mr B and 
in this case, they chose not to do so as he didnt meet their criteria. He felt Hippo had 
explained the overall process and it was fair for them to carry out the credit checks.
Mr B disagreed. He said he didnt receive Hippos initial disclosure document and as part of 
his initial query he had asked about guarantor options but this wasnt discussed with him 
until after the checks were carried out. He said he had raised the issue of his credit history 
on numerous times and the advisor didnt explain the process which prevented him from 
making an informed decision as to how to proceed before the credit checks were carried out. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint, let me explain why.
At this point, I would like to highlight Mr B has raised a number of complaint points which Ive 
taken into account. However Im not required to provide answers to everything. No 
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service. Instead, my 
decision will focus on what I consider to be the main issues in order to reach a fair outcome. 
Mr B complained he initially asked about guarantor options but this was never considered or 
discussed with him during the call with Hippo. His online enquiry said Hi Im looking at the 
lease on the 420d, Im unsure about the credit due to previous issues, can guarantors be 
named on these leases?. Therefore, I accept Mr B was asking Hippo a question about the 
options of guarantors for hire agreements however it doesnt appear Hippo sent a response 
to this question. However they sent him their initial disclosure document and a link to their 
privacy notice online. 
The following day, Mr B had a call with Hippo which Ive listened to. At the start, Mr B 
confirmed he had received the initial disclosure document so its clear he was in receipt of it. 
Throughout the call, I can hear the advisor talk about a number of different things which I 
would expect such as what type of car Mr Bs wants, his financial circumstances including 
his employment and how much he intends to pay monthly towards hiring the car, etc. On this 
basis, I dont think its fair for Mr B to say Hippo didnt take into account his personal 
circumstances and his needs. I believe the advisor asked these questions in order to find out 
more about his financial circumstances and what he wanted. In the circumstances, I believe 
it was reasonable for the advisor to do so.
After discussing a number of items, the advisor proceeded to explain to Mr B that in order to 
see what their panel of financial lenders would offer, a soft credit check would be carried out 
but this wouldnt have an adverse impact on his credit file. I can hear Mr B agreed to the 
same so I cant so the advisor did anything wrong as Mr B gave his authority for this to 
happen. I think its reasonable to expect when applying for finance, a number of checks may 
be carried out before agreeing to lend, this is to check a persons financial circumstances. In 
order to check the likelihood of a lending application being approved, its common for soft 
credit checks to be carried out. Both Hippo and the investigator have explained soft credit 
checks, the impact it has on a credit file and who will see it, so I wont repeat this again here 
but I agree that such checks dont have an adverse impact on an individuals credit score as 
it doesnt leave a visible footprint on the credit file which financial lenders can see. So in this 
instance, I believe it was fair for Hippo to carry out the soft credit checks.
Ive carefully considered Mr Bs comments about his initial enquiry about guarantor options 
and I accept this wasnt discussed during the call. It wasnt until afterward the credit checks 
Hippo provided further information about this. They said such an option is available in certain 
circumstances but its dependent on the financial lenders criteria based on Mr Bs 
circumstance.. Its worth noting the decision to lend is a commercial decision made by the 
financial lender, not by the credit broker, that is Hippo. As Mr B didnt meet the lending 
criteria, I think it was fair Hippo didnt discuss the guarantor options further. 
Mr B said had he been told this earlier he may have acted differently before agreeing to 
proceed with the credit checks. I cant say with any certainty what Mr B wouldve done had 
this been clear from the outset however on balance Im not persuaded it wouldve made a 
difference. I say this because guarantor options were available with Hippos panel of lenders 
but in order to see if he met the lenders criteria and what may be required to enhance the 
approval of any subsequent full lending application, a soft credit check would need to be carried out in the first instance which is what happened here. This means, Mr B would have 
to meet the lending criteria first before the options of a guarantor were explored further.
Had Hippo outlined this earlier in addition to making Mr B aware the soft credit check 
wouldnt adversely impact his credit file, I believe its most likely Mr B wouldve agreed to the 
same. So Im satisfied no financial detriment was caused. 
Mr B said during the call, he raised on numerous occasions about his credit history but 
having listened to the call, at no point can I hear this happened. At the end of the call, the 
advisor asked if he had any further questions to which he answered no. If Mr B wanted to 
find out more about the process, the guarantor options, discuss his credit history or anything 
else, I believe it wouldve been reasonable for him to raise it especially if it was of significant 
importance to him in order to make an informed choice but I cant hear that he did. So I think 
it was fair for Hippo to proceed with the credit checks as they said they would. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Hippo treated Mr B fairly and it was fair for them 
to carry out the soft credit checks to determine the likelihood of a financial business agreeing 
to lend.
While I accept Hippo couldve been more clear about the guarantor options before the credit 
checks were carried out, I dont believe them not doing so caused a financial detriment to Mr 
B, although I accept he wouldve been disappointed about the financial lenders decision. Im 
sorry to hear what Mr B has said about how this situation has impacted personally and the 
stress and upset caused but I cant reasonably conclude Hippo done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman