DRN-2129888
The complaint
Miss C complained because Santander UK Plc closed her account and registered a fraud 
marker against her name.
What happened
On 26 November 2018, Miss C paid a cheque for £37,287.12 into her account, at a 
Santander branch. The cheque had the payers name printed on the top of the cheque, and 
this was an educational establishment several hundred miles from Miss Cs address. On 28 
November, Santander was contacted by the bank on which the cheque had been drawn. 
That bank told Santander the cheque had been fraudulent.
Santander put a temporary block on Miss Cs account.  But by then, Miss C had already 
made three transfers out of the account: one to an account elsewhere in her own name for 
£9,000, and two other transfers to another person totalling £10,000. 
Santander wrote to Miss C the same day, asking her if she recognised a cheque for 
£37,287.12 paid into her account, and asking her to get in touch.
Miss C told Santander it came from an inheritance but she couldnt provide proof because 
she wasnt talking to the family members whod written the cheque. Santander investigated, 
and on 7 December it wrote to Miss C saying that it had decided it would no longer provide 
banking facilities to her.
Miss C rang Santander, and said that her ex-partner had the details of her bank accounts. 
She said he wouldnt give her cards back until shed agreed to make the transfers. 
Santander asked a number of questions, including how her ex-partner had obtained the 
cheque, how hed obtained her card, and why Miss C hadnt asked Santander to reissue her 
card and security details. Miss C didnt know the answers, but said shed been afraid of him. 
Santander told Miss C that in order to appeal, it would need proof shed reported this to the 
police. Miss C told the bank shed reported it, but hadnt been given a crime reference 
number. Santander refused to change its original decision about the account closure and the 
fraud marker.
Miss C complained. She said Santander hadnt taken into account her circumstances. She 
said shed previously been signed off work with depression and had medication which 
affected her judgment. Miss C said that shed previously been the victim of domestic 
violence from an earlier partner. She told Santander she hadnt been party to the fraud and 
wanted the marker removed.
In its final response letter, Santander said it had followed the correct process in closing Miss 
Cs account and recording the CIFAS marker. It said it could review it again if Miss C 
provided evidence of a successful police prosecution, though it wouldnt guarantee to 
change the decision.
Miss C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
The information Miss C gave to our investigator was complex. In summary, she said the 
person from whom shed suffered domestic abuse wasnt the person involved with the 
cheque, but had been a previous partner. She said she had quite a casual relationship with 
the person involved with the cheque. She thought shed dropped her purse, containing the 
card, in the ex-partners car, but she hadnt written down her PIN. Miss C told the 
investigator that her ex-partner had phoned up telling her to transfer money to account 
numbers hed give her. She said she agreed because she could hear people shouting in the 
background that they wanted the money.  Miss C also said that after that, her ex-partner had 
asked her to go to a city several hundred miles away to take money out of a foreign 
exchange place. Miss C also said her ex-partner and his associates had driven her into town 
to take out the rest of the money, but by then the account had been blocked.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. She noted inconsistencies in what Miss C 
had said. She considered the circumstances, including the fact that Miss C had suffered 
domestic violence from a previous partner, and the fact she was off work sick. But the 
investigator pointed out that Miss C had said shed transferred the money as her ex-partner 
had told her to. And shed benefited from the transactions. So the investigator considered 
that Santander had followed the correct procedures when closing Miss Cs account and 
recording the fraud marker against her name.
Miss C wasnt satisfied. She said she shouldnt be penalised because of the activities of 
people she had no involvement with. Miss C said she hadnt benefitted in any way, and she 
didnt accept that she should be prevented from getting on with her life because of the 
activities of others. And if the CIFAS marker had to stay, she asked that it should only be 
held with Santander not more widely, because she didnt want to use Santander any more 
anyway.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Closing Miss Cs account
Banks are entitled to close a customers account and refuse to provide banking services. 
Santanders terms and conditions also set out that it can close accounts with reduced, or no, 
notice in certain circumstances. These circumstances include acting in any way to give rise 
to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal activities.
Here, Santander was notified by another bank that the cheque paid into Miss Cs account 
was fraudulent. It put a temporary block on the account and asked Miss C to get in touch 
about the cheque. I consider this was fair, because it gave Miss C an opportunity to come up 
with an explanation. But Miss C didnt provide information which reassured Santander. She 
said it had been an inheritance, but she couldnt provide evidence of this because she wasnt 
on speaking terms with the people whod given her the cheque. This doesnt add up when 
the account name on the cheque wasnt, say, a solicitors or executors account, but an 
educational establishment in a different part of the country. So I find that it was fair and 
reasonable for Santander to have taken the decision to close Miss Cs account.
CIFAS markers  how they work
CIFAS is a fraud prevention agency. It maintains a large database, in order to protect 
financial organisations and their customers against fraud. Member organisations have a 
responsibility to record a marker against a customers name when they have reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or relevant conduct has been committed or attempted. The evidence the organisation has must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police or a relevant regulatory 
body. 
So Ive gone on to consider whether Santander had sufficient grounds to record a marker 
against Miss C.
CIFAS marker against Miss C
First, Im sorry to hear that Miss C suffered domestic violence from a previous partner, and 
that shed previously been signed off work with depression. But I have to focus on the 
circumstances of what happened, and in particular whether or not Santander was unfair 
when it recorded a fraud marker against Miss Cs name. Miss C told us that the ex-partner 
from whom she suffered domestic violence, wasnt the same person involved with the 
fraudulent cheque. That was a different ex-partner. Miss C told us the ex-partner involved 
with the fraudulent cheque hadnt abused her in any way. So, although I sympathise with 
Miss Cs previous experience, it doesnt affect my consideration of the circumstances around 
the fraud.
The details which Miss C has provided to Santander and to this service have varied over 
time. To give one example, she first said the cheque had been an inheritance, but she 
couldnt provide proof because she wasnt on speaking terms with the people whod given 
her the cheque; but later said her ex-partner had paid it into her account without her knowing 
anything about it.
Miss Cs versions of what happened have also been very elaborate and complex. To give a 
few examples, they included being told to travel several hundred miles away to take out 
money as foreign exchange; being told to transfer to account details given over the phone 
with people shouting in the background they must have the money; and her ex-partners 
associates phoning her saying they knew where she lived. But Miss C didnt initially report 
any of these to Santander or the police, and theyve varied over time.
I cant say for sure which of these may or may not have happened, but thats not whats 
important here. My job is to determine whether or not Santander acted fairly and reasonably 
when it recorded the fraud marker against Miss Cs name. To establish that, Ive looked at 
the known facts.
The £37,287.12 cheque was fraudulent. Thats not in dispute. Within a very short time, and 
before the sender bank had been able to notify Santander of the fraud, £19,000 had been 
withdrawn. Of this, £9,000 had been transferred to an account of Miss Cs with another bank. 
There were also two bank transfers to other accounts. Its common practice for fraudsters to 
withdraw fraudulent funds straightaway, before the fraud can be spotted and withdrawals 
blocked.
The transfers were completed using Miss Cs security details. She hadnt notified Santander 
that she had lost her card, or someone else had it; and she also hasnt said she wrote down 
or in any other way compromised her PIN or online security details. 
And finally, Miss Cs bank statements with the other bank show that, as well as the £9,000 
which credited her account from the fraudulent funds, she also received two payments from 
the person to whom shed paid the other £10,000. One of these was for £1,500 and another 
for £3,000. Both were received by Miss Cs other bank account on the same day as Miss C 
had carried out the Santander transfers to that person. Miss C wasnt able to explain this 
when our investigator asked her about it. So I consider its likely that Miss C benefitted from 
the fraud by at least £13,500.Taking all these factors into consideration, I consider that Santander met the CIFAS criteria 
for recording a marker against Miss Cs name.  I dont require Santander to remove the 
marker.
Finally, Miss C has asked that if the CIFAS marker has to stay, it should only be held with 
Santander and not more widely. But this isnt how CIFAS markers work. As the CIFAS 
website explains, the organisation exists to prevent fraud losses. This is done through 
sharing data. All member organisations, including Santander, are required to report 
information as part of this activity to prevent fraud, which is entered on the shared database. 
So its never an option for a CIFAS marker to be recorded only on the records of one 
organisation alone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman