DRN-3469652
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund money he lost to an investment 
scam. 
Mr K is represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill refer to 
him throughout this decision.
 
What happened
Mr K was cold called by a broker who offered him lucrative investments in Bitcoin. He hadnt 
previously been interested in investing in Bitcoin but after receiving further documentation, 
he decided to create an account with a company Ill call H. 
Mr K made an initial investment of $10,000 in April 2020 via another one of his banking 
providers and between April 2020 and June 2020, he received dividend payments. Mr K was 
persuaded to invest larger sums and H provided him with an investment opportunity with a 
company based in the USA. H sent him further documentation and in September 2020, he 
made a payment of £37,500 via an online banking transfer  using his Barclays current 
account. This payment was made to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange Ill call B. 
Around December 2020, Mr K reported the scam to Barclays and he subsequently raised a 
formal complaint. Barclays issued its final response letter in April 2021 and stated Mr K 
hadnt previously reported the matter to it. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this office. 
One of our Investigators reviewed the complaint and didnt think Barclays should refund any 
of Mr Ks loss. She felt that hed done extensive research and had seen warnings which 
didnt dissuade him from investing with H. She also noted that Barclays had provided an 
online warning at the time Mr K made his payment. She didnt think any intervention would 
have changed Mr Ks decision to invest. 
Mr K didnt agree. He said in summary that despite seeing warnings online, he questioned 
the scammer and they were able to provide articulate answers. Hed also been able to see 
his trading account increase in value with his own eyes before making the payment and the 
growth was in line with the current value of Bitcoin, so it seemed reasonable. Mr K believed 
Barclays had security measures in place and could have asked probing, open ended 
questions to uncover the scam and provide an effective warning. Mr K said Barclays were 
familiar with this type of fraud at the time and asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why. 
The payment Mr K made wasnt paid directly from his own account to the scammers. The 
payment was made via an account set up by Mr K in his name with B. So Im satisfied the 
CRM Code doesnt apply in this case. 
But Ive also considered Barclays other obligations in this case. Theres no dispute the 
payment Mr K made was authorised even though he was the victim of a scam. The 
payment was made by him and under the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs), and the 
terms and conditions of his account, hes presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays shouldve taken proactive steps to 
identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions 
 that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be 
struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their 
customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Ive first thought about whether Barclays could have identified that Mr K was paying a 
potential scammer but Ive noted that he didnt pay the scammers directly and instead paid B 
- a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. So, I dont think the payee on the face of it, should 
have caused Barclays any particular concern.  
Ive therefore thought about whether Barclays should have suspected Mr K could be falling 
victim to a potential fraud or scam, based on any significant change in the normal pattern of 
his spending. 
Ive noted Mr K sent a payment to B of £50 on 7 July 2020. He says this payment was for H 
to demonstrate how to transfer to his trading account with them. Mr K has not complained 
about this payment but in any event, I dont think it was unusual when considering the 
normal operation of his account. 
Im satisfied the payment of £37,500 to B was sufficiently unusual under the circumstances 
when considering Mr Ks previous account conduct. Barclays has provided evidence that Mr 
K was provided a warning when he set up B as a new beneficiary, it said amongst other 
things, 
Check the FCA register and warning list to confirm the investment company is certified and 
regulated before proceeding. Scammers often clone genuine companies, creating 
documents and websites that look real  check the spelling. 
Fraudsters often provide an initial return on an investment to encourage you to provide 
larger amounts of money, so get a second opinion from a qualified advisor. If the offer 
sounds too good to be true, it probably is. 
I think this warning is meaningful when considering the scam Mr K fell victim to. 
But I still think Barclays should have made contact with Mr K to ask suitably probing 
questions at the time of his payment. And I have no reason to doubt that Mr K would have 
explained what he was doing and that the purpose of the payments were to invest. 
In such circumstances, whilst Barclays had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give 
investment advice, it should have asked Mr K some further questions to ascertain whether 
he was likely to be at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
However, even if Barclays had asked Mr K some suitably probing questions, I dont think it 
could have dissuaded him from investing. I say this because hed already built a relationship 
with the scammers over six months and had invested with them. Hed also received dividend payments from them. Ive noted that several months prior to the payment in dispute, hed 
carried out extensive research into H. Mr K sent an email to his account manager at H on 5 
July 2020 and asked a long list of questions. He highlighted a very high number of bad 
independent reviews. He queried scam claims, Hs registration, inaccuracies on Hs website, 
information on Companies House and explained to H that he was getting his solicitor to look 
over the contract. 
Ive noted the scammers provided responses to each of Mr Ks questions which he said was 
convincing. I think if Barclays had asked probing questions, Mr K would have explained he 
had a pre-existing relationship with H and had paid them before. He would have also 
explained he received dividend payments, had carried out his own independent research 
and was having his solicitor look over his contract. I think this would have satisfied Barclays 
that Mr K had thought very carefully about his decision to invest and was comfortable with 
that decision. 
Mr K was under no immediate pressure to pay and waited a few months after questioning H 
before sending his payment. I think this would have given him time to carry out the further 
checks he said he intended to carry out and so I dont think Barclays could fairly and 
reasonably have prevented his loss. 
I appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mr K and he will understandably feel aggrieved 
about her loss. But for the reasons set out above, I dont consider it fair to hold Barclays 
liable for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that, despite my natural sympathies for Mr Hs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman