DRN-3043936
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the service provided by Vitality Corporate Services Limited (VCS 
Limited) after taking out a life insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2015 Mrs C took out a life insurance policy provided by VCS Limited. At the time, VCS 
Limited was known as Prudential Health Services Limited (PHS Limited), and its trading 
name was PruProtect. 
Mrs C was sent a welcome pack, including a policy schedule, and confirmation of her direct 
debit instruction on 29 April 2015. The direct debit instruction confirmed the monthly 
payment of £35, and account details that this premium would be taken from. 
In 2018 a further copy of the same documents were sent to Mrs C, to the same address as 
they were previously sent to. This time, the documents were sent recorded delivery.
In 2020 Mrs C contacted VCS Limited to question the direct debit payments, as she hadnt 
received any paperwork. Mrs C said she was unhappy that the direct debits had continued to 
be taken. VCS Limited responded to Mrs Cs complaint on 7 July saying that the documents 
had been sent in both 2015 and 2018, and so it wouldnt be offering Mrs C any 
compensation in resolution of her complaint.
Mrs C was unhappy with this response, and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that although Mrs C had experienced a lot of upset by what had 
happened, the evidence didnt support asking VCS Limited to refund the premiums Mrs C 
was asking for. Mrs C disagreed, saying that VCS Limited hadnt done enough to prove that 
documents had been sent, and received by her. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same 
reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs C but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs C has provided a very detailed account of why she believes VCS Limited have acted 
unfairly, and why her premiums should be refunded. The crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that 
she did not receive the documents VCS Limited say were sent in 2015 and 2018. Because 
of this, Mrs C feels strongly that there was no insurance in place, and so the premiums paid 
by direct debit should be refunded. 
I dont doubt that what Mrs C has told this service about not receiving the documents VCS 
Limited say were sent in 2015 and 2018. But it wouldnt be fair to hold VCS Limited 
responsible for this, and ask it to pay compensation, unless there was evidence to support 
that it had done something wrong. 
VCS Limited have provided screenshots showing documents being sent to Mrs C in 2015, 
and 2018. They have also provided Royal Mail tracking numbers for three documents that 
were sent via recorded delivery in 2018. Its not been possible to verify the safe delivery of 
these because of the amount of time that has passed. But I wouldnt expect VCS Limited to 
provide evidence of the documents being safely delivered. I would expect it to show that it 
took all reasonable steps to ensure the documents were sent when it has said they were. 
While Mrs C says she didnt receive these documents, Im unable to ask VCS Limited to 
refund Mrs C her insurance premiums because of this. The evidence Ive seen shows that 
its more likely than not that VCS Limited sent documents to Mrs C in 2015 and 2018. So the 
service provided by VCS Limited is in line with what wed expect. 
Im satisfied Mrs C took out a contract of insurance with VCS Limited in 2015. If a claim had 
been made under the policy during the time it was in force, its likely that the policy wouldve 
paid out in line with the terms and conditions, as the insurance premium was successfully 
being debited each month. So I dont think it would be fair to ask VCS Limited to refund the 
premiums because Mrs C says she wasnt in receipt of any paperwork.   
I appreciate this has been a very upsetting experience for Mrs C. But based on the evidence 
Ive seen VCS Limiteds actions have been reasonable. So I wont be asking it to do anything 
in settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman