DRN-2064058
The complaint
Mr D complains about the settlement offered by Amtrust Europe Limited on an insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mr D purchased a sofa from a well-known retailer. At the same time, he purchased 
insurance for the sofa. The policy is provided by Amtrust. Where I refer in this decision to 
Amtrust, this includes its representatives who administer claims made on this policy.
Mr D claimed on the insurance policy, and Amtrust agreed cover for the claim. As the sofa 
couldnt be repaired (the required parts were unavailable) it offered Mr D a mandate 
(essentially a voucher) so that he could purchase a new sofa from the original retailer. The 
amount offered was less than originally paid by Mr D. Or, in the alternative, it offered a cash 
settlement. The cash settlement offer was 50% of the mandate amount.
Mr D rejected this and complained to Amtrust. He said that the amount offered in settlement 
should be for the full value of what hed paid for the sofa. Amtrust rejected the complaint. But 
it did acknowledge there had been delays to the claim and offered £25 in compensation.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Amtrusts actions and 
response to his complaint were appropriate. As he didnt agree, Mr Ds asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has made two offers to Mr D by way of settlement of the claim. Ive looked at how 
these have been calculated, and whether theyre fair.
The amounts offered are linked, in that the cash offer is 50% of the mandate offer. Ill deal 
with the mandate offer first.
In correspondence with Mr D, Amtrust has outlined how the mandate offer amount has been 
calculated. This was made up of the cost of the sofa, 50% of the cost of undamaged 
matching items, less the value of repairs already carried out.
Ill cover the deduction which has been made for previous repairs. The policy terms and 
conditions say that The most we will pay under this protection plan is the original price you 
paid for the product. Its important to say here that this isnt the maximum that will be paid 
for any one claim. Instead the maximum payable (the original cost) is across the life of the 
policy. In this case, as Mr D had previously had a repair carried out on the sofa under the 
policy, the cost of that repair has been deducted from the settlement. This is in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr D also says that the full cost of the matching items should be included, as the same sofa 
isnt available as a replacement. But the policy terms and conditions say that Any 
replacement will be of a similar standard specification and style as your original product. 
These terms and conditions dont say that the policy covers for an exact replacement, or that 
undamaged matching items will also be replaced in the event of a claim. I think the offer to 
pay 50% of the matching items is fair in the circumstances.
I conclude that the mandate offer amount was reasonable in the circumstances.
The cash settlement is calculated as being 50% of the mandate offer. This is because 
Amtrust has the advantage of beneficial rates with the retailer when a claim is settled by way 
of a mandate, and the 50% offered is what it would pay to the retailer in that situation. Our 
services position on this is well established. Where the insurer has made an offer to settle 
the claim by way of a mandate (ie by offering to pay for a replacement item directly with the 
retailer), we think its fair for the insurer to be able to limit any cash settlement to what it 
would have paid the retailer. Thats what Amtrust has done here.
I conclude that the cash settlement offer made to Mr D was reasonable.
Amtrust has acknowledged that there were delays and a missed appointment during the 
claims process. When the repairer did attend Mr Ds property to attempt to fix the sofa, they 
were unable to do so as they had the wrong equipment. I understand this would have 
caused inconvenience to Mr D, but Im aware that the damage to the sofa was such that it 
didnt prevent its ongoing use. I think that, in the circumstances, the £25 offered as 
compensation by Amtrust was adequate.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman