DRN-3593588
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) 
closed their accounts, which led to difficulty and stress to the directors. Theyd like an 
admission of guilt and compensation.
What happened
R held accounts with Danske Bank. 
In March 2019 Danske Bank wrote to the directors of R to let them know they needed to 
know more about how the account was operated. In July 2019 they spoke to one of the 
directors who answered a number of questions, and it was agreed for accounts to be sent to 
the bank. These were received in September 2019.
In January 2020 Danske Bank completed its review. In March 2020 the bank wrote to R to 
say that theyd taken a commercial decision to stop providing banking facilities. The letter 
stated the accounts would be closed in May 2020. 
Rs directors raised a complaint to Danske Bank asking for the decision to be reconsidered. 
The bank responded to say that they were not going to reverse this decision, but they did 
agree to extend the date the accounts would be closed to July 2020.
Unhappy with this the directors of R raised further issues with Danske Bank  they said they 
had been told in branch the accounts they had sent were lost, and that Danske Bank hadnt 
understood Rs business model. They also highlighted the impact of the closure on the 
health and reputation of the directors. The bank issued a more detailed response, which 
apologised for the difficulties caused to the directors.
R referred the complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into what happened 
but didnt think Danske Bank needed to do anything further. She said under their legal and 
regulatory obligations the bank needed to understand more about Rs business. Having 
reviewed the evidence provided they were entitled to take the commercial decision to close 
Rs accounts in line with the terms of the account. They said the bank didnt need to provide 
a reason for doing this. The investigator was satisfied that Danske Bank gave R the correct 
notice as outlined in the terms. But they felt it was fair for this date to be extended.
The investigator felt there were failings in the communication between Danske Bank and R  
and this had led to a director making an unnecessary trip to the branch. But they felt 
weighing this up with the other actions by the bank  such as extending the closure date  
meant the bank didnt need to do anything further.
R disagreed  so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the submissions by R they had highlighted what they feel is the impact and 
frustration caused to the directors personally, as well as issues with the handling of personal 
data. I should explain that this decision solely covers Danske Banks actions in relation to R. 
As a limited company it is legally distinct from the directors. The eligible complainant here is 
R, as this is the entity that held the account with Danske Bank. As such, I can only consider 
the impact of any errors or unfairness on R rather than the individual directors personally. 
The investigator was right to say Danske Bank have legal and regulatory obligations to fulfil 
when holding accounts for their customers. For business accounts, such as Rs, this means 
needing to understand more about the business. To fulfil these obligations, they may need to 
ask for further information about how the account is operated. This can happen at any point 
in the lifespan of the account. Its not unreasonable for Danske Bank to ask R for further 
information  such as for the accounts.
I can see that the directors of R were responsive to these requests. So, Ive no doubt it was 
a surprise to them when Danske Bank wrote to them to say they would be closing Rs 
accounts. However, the bank is free to choose who they do business with and can reach a 
commercial decision that they no longer wish to provide accounts to customers. There is 
provision made for this in Rs terms with Danske Bank. So, I cant say the bank did anything 
wrong in deciding to close Rs account.
R has suggested that Danske Bank have misunderstood their business, so the decision to 
close was based on this misunderstanding. Danske Bank arent obliged to give detailed 
reasons for closing accounts and havent done so here. From what Ive seen the decision to 
close Rs account was a legitimate commercial decision that they were entitled to make. 
Danske Bank have also had the opportunity to review their decision, and ask further 
questions of R. But they havent changed their position. This indicates to me the decision 
wasnt down to a misunderstanding or mistake.
I can see that Danske Bank wrote to R giving at least 60 days notice of the closure  which 
is whats required from the terms of the account, and inline with industry regulations. This is 
a reasonable time for R to make other banking arrangements. I think it was more than 
reasonable for Danske Bank to extend this deadline beyond this. 
There were clearly some failures in communication from Danske Bank  and they have 
accepted as such and I can see they have apologised for this. I can see how the 
miscommunication around whether the accounts had been received would have caused the 
directors frustration, but Ive not seen anything to suggest this caused any significant 
disruption to the running of Rs business. I cant say that these failings ultimately impacted 
Danske Banks decision to close Rs account, as this was made for separate reasons.
I can see that Danske Bank agreed to a meeting with Rs directors and subsequently issued 
a letter apologising for the communication failings and confusion caused. Im satisfied this is 
an appropriate response, and as such Im not asking Danske Bank to do anything further in 
relation to Rs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Northern Bank Limited dont need to do anything further to resolve 
Rs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman