DRN-4207004
The complaint
Miss J complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly declined her pet insurance claim.
What happened
In August 2021, Miss J got a rescue cat, Ill call R. The initial medical check at the time 
Miss J got R showed her cat had a grade 3 heart murmur, but a ProBNP blood test was 
negative for signs of cardiomyopathy. 
In July 2022 another ProBNP test was done by Miss Js new vets and this came back 
positive. Her vet recommended a heart ultrasound and a treatment plan. In discussing this 
with her vet Miss J said she was reassured that it was a new development and wouldnt be 
considered as a pre-existing condition. This persuaded Miss J to agree to Rs treatment 
going ahead. But when Miss J made a claim for the costs of the treatment to Red Sands 
they declined her claim as they said the condition was pre-existing. Miss J complained to 
Red Sands.
Red Sands said  the grade 3 heart murmur R had in August 2021 had progressed to a 
grade 4 heart murmur and her ProBNP level was now high. They said that although Rs 
heart murmur was noted in August 2021 as ongoing but unlikely to recur, and significantly 
unlikely to be cardiomyopathy, this was not definite. They said the grade 3 heart murmur had  
progressed to a grade 4 heart murmur within a year with clinically significant heart disease 
(suspected to be cardiomyopathy). Red Sands sought the advice of another vet whod said 
that while in August 2021 the murmur wasnt significant, it didnt mean cardiac disease 
wasnt present. 
Miss J wasnt happy with Red Sands response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said he placed weight on Miss Js vet who said this wasnt a pre-existing 
condition. And asked Red Sands to re consider Miss Js claim.
Red Sands didnt agree they said a normal ProBNP test didnt rule out cardiac disease. And 
given the short time, a year in which Rs condition went from a grade 3 to a grade 4 heart 
murmur strongly suggests that the grade 3 heart murmur was a strong indication that the 
heart condition was there and developing. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2023 that said:
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly and
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. Red Sands policy excludes the cost of any 
treatment for a pre-existing condition which the policy defines as:
Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any injury or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or where R showed observable changes to her 
normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour that could be 
observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within 14 days of your policy's 
original start date. You don't have to declare your existing conditions upfront.
The policy definition of pre-existing condition includes undiagnosed conditions where there
were symptoms or clinical signs of the condition or related condition. And goes on to say:
You dont have to declare your existing conditions upfront. Upon your first claim we will 
request all of Rubys medical records and will let you know what conditions will be excluded. 
You can see a list of your existing exclusions.
I understand why Red Sands thought the conditions might be related. But there are two 
issues that I must also consider.
First, Ive evidence from a qualified vet that says the heart murmur noted in 2021 wasnt 
linked to the cardiomyopathy diagnosis made in July 2022. The evidence from the vet at the 
time was that it was significantly unlikely to be cardiomyopathy. I think this is strong 
evidence that in August 2021 Miss Js cat wasnt showing clinical signs of cardiomyopathy. I 
havent seen any evidence that suggested further tests or investigations should be done. 
And secondly theres no indication Miss J was told of any concern about Rs heart murmur. 
And was reassured being told it was unlikely to recur.
So, while Miss J would have known her cat had a heart murmur, Ive no reason to believe 
Mrs J considered R had any progressive heart disease that she should be concerned 
about.  The grade of murmur heard didnt necessarily mean heart disease is more or less 
severe, or even present. And a cat can have an innocent or physiologic heart murmur that 
has no impact on the cat's health. So I dont think Mrs J knew about the possibility that her 
cats heart murmur could develop into cardiomyopathy when she bought the policy.
But Red Sands has given me their underwriting criteria that applies to every policy. It says 
that if an animal is diagnosed with a heart murmur then it will exclude cover on all claims 
with respect to heart conditions. And I think this could have been better explained to Miss J
when she made her claim.
The medical notes say that Miss Js cat had a heart murmur detected in August 2021 so the 
cover for any heart conditions under the policy would be excluded from this date. And it 
would be considered a pre-existing condition based on the policy definitions. As Red Sands 
has applied its underwriting criteria to Miss Js policy in the way it would any other policy I 
cant say they have acted unfairly in these circumstances. So, I think Red Sands declined 
Miss Js claim in line with the terms of her policy. And it was reasonable to apply the 
exclusion based on Rs medical history. 
I understand that this will be disappointing for Miss J but Ive not seen anything to suggest
that her claim was declined unfairly. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Red Sands havent responded and so they havent asked for any further comments or 
representations to be considered.Miss J commented about the clarity of the policy wording, marketing of the insurance policy, 
poor communication and speculation. 
In summary Miss J says that anything that precludes the condition from the policy should be 
clearly displayed and identified in a way that is clear to understand. She said that Red Sands 
in explaining their reasoning for the decline had referred to R suffering from 
cardiomyopathy and not that any heart condition would constitute an exclusion as a pre-
existing condition. She said it was unfair for an undiagnosed condition to fall into the 
category of a pre-existing condition as this would be unknown to the consumer when 
considering the purchase of an insurance policy. Miss J was of the belief that this made 
taking out an insurance policy as much of a risk as by not having a policy and it would be 
better to simply put aside the premium each month for potential future outlay.
Miss J also said shed made her decision to take out the policy based on the clinical opinion 
of two veterinarians. She said as this showed R didnt have any clinical indication of 
cardiomyopathy the condition shouldnt be considered as pre-existing.
I can assure Miss J that Ive read and considered everything shes sent. However, I wont be
commenting on every point shes raised here, just the ones that I think are necessary to
consider the fundamental elements of this complaint. No discourtesy is intended.
My role here is to determine whether Red Sands has acted fairly in declining Miss Js claim. I 
understand that this will be disappointing for Miss J but Ive not seen anything to suggest
that her claim was declined unfairly.
Virtually every pet insurance policy will say theres no cover for pre-existing conditions. This 
isnt unreasonable  insurers are entitled to decide what risks they want to cover, and they 
wont normally want to cover something thats already present. 
When Red Sands first declined Miss Js claim for Rs treatment I can see they said it was 
because the symptoms (the heart murmur) of  Rs  heart condition began before the policy 
start date. And its not in dispute that Miss J was aware before she took out the policy that 
R had a heart murmur.
I can see in the policy document under a bolded heading: Pre-existing conditions it says:
Any claim or costs for existing conditions, which means any injury or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or where Ruby showed observable changes to her 
normal healthy state, condition, appearance, bodily functions or behaviour that could be 
observed visually, diagnostically or otherwise before or within 14 days of your policy's 
original start date.
So, Im satisfied the information provided by Red Sands explained clearly that a pre-existing 
condition wouldnt be covered. And Miss J knew R had a heart murmur, so a pre-existing 
condition. What Miss J disputes is the connection to the heart murmur and the tests that 
showed R had now developed cardiomyopathy and why this new diagnosis is being 
considered as a pre-existing condition. 
But I can see that Red Sands in declining the claim first explained that the declinature was 
based on Rs heart murmur. They explained that the policy had been incepted in early 
September 2021, and Rs medical history showed a heart murmur was detected in August 
2021, before the policys inception. 
Red Sands go on to say that the heart murmur would be considered a pre-existing condition 
and so excluded under the policy for any heart conditions. They later expand on their reasoning as their veterinarian said the heart murmur had developed into cardiomyopathy 
and was probably present at the time of the policys inception. As I explained in my 
provisional decision when Miss J took out the policy R may not have had cardiomyopathy 
when the policy was incepted but R did have a heart condition (heart murmur). Red Sands 
have applied the exclusion reason  heart conditions in line with their underwriting criteria. 
So, I dont think theyve acted unfairly in applying these terms.
I can understand Miss Js comments that this information should be made known before a 
policy is incepted. The policy says:
You don't have to declare your existing conditions upfront. Upon your first claim we will 
request all of R's medical records and will let you know what conditions will be excluded.
If Red Sands been aware of Rs heart murmur before the claim was made or at the time of 
inception I think the same exclusion would have been added to Miss Js policy so, the claim 
would still have been unsuccessful. 
Miss J has questioned the value of an insurance policy but the exclusion for R is made for 
heart conditions, so the other benefits of the policy still remain.
As Red Sands has applied their underwriting criteria to Miss Js policy in the way it would to 
any other policy I cant say theyve treated Miss J unfairly in these circumstances. I think 
they declined Miss Js claim in line with the terms of her policy. And it was reasonable to 
apply the exclusion based on Rs medical notes.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman