DRN-4279121
The complaint
Mr W complains that Phoenix Life Limited calculated the value of his pension incorrectly. He
also complains that it deliberately delayed the transfer of his pension funds to another
provider.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 13 July 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold it were set 
out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below, and it forms part of this final 
decision.
Copy
In brief, Mr W joined his employers Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) in the 1980s. He
was invested in a with-profits fund. In 1998 the scheme was made paid up. The OPS was
subsequently wound up, and the OPS Trustees secured members benefits with a type
of pension buy-out arrangement. The deed of assignment was dated 21 May 1999. This said
the OPS Trustees assigned all their legal and beneficial interests to the individual members.
The new policy schedule (dated 5 January 2000) said, amongst other things, that Mr Ws
annuity at vesting date was £13,667 per annum with profits. It said the cash sum in lieu of
retirement benefits was £123,004 with profits.
In 2008 Mr W complained to Phoenix Life and subsequently to us because he was receiving
statements for his pension showing valuations that were inconsistent with previous values.
Phoenix Life said that this was due to an error with its systems, which had inflated the value
by around £10,000. Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who was
satisfied with Phoenix Lifes explanation for the discrepancy, albeit considered it had caused
distress and inconvenience to Mr W.
Mr W was approaching the retirement date for the plan (in 2020) but still had reservations
that Phoenix Life was calculating its value incorrectly. He was considering transferring the
pensions value to another pension provider. He had numerous exchanges with Phoenix Life
about the pensions correct value over a several month period. Mr W says the transfer was
delayed by 375 days and he suffered a significant financial loss as a result.
Mr W referred a complaint to us and it was considered by one of our investigators. The
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said that
Phoenix Life had explained its calculations to Mr W and had both its pension technicians and
actuaries check its calculations. He said he thought on the balance of probabilities it was
more likely that Phoenix Lifes actuarys calculations were accurate.
In respect of the transfer, the investigator said that Mr W could have transferred his pension
when it reached maturity date and it wasnt reasonable to hold Phoenix Life responsible for
delays because Mr W was in correspondence with it disputing its correct value. And he didnt
think Phoenix Life was responsible for any material delays in the processing of the transfer.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings. He subsequently obtained evidence from
an independent actuary which he provided to us. His complaint was considered by another
investigator as the original investigator had left this service. However the second investigator
also didnt think that that the complaint should be upheld. In his view the independent
actuarys report was inconclusive.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigators findings and his complaint was passed to me to
consider.
I issued a jurisdiction decision dated 26 May 2023 explaining the reasons why I was only
able to consider the parts of Mr Ws complaint relating to the pension as from May 1999,
when the OPS Trustees assigned all their legal and beneficial interest to Mr W. Ive now
gone onto consider the merits of Mr Ws complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Incorrect pension value
As I explained in my jurisdiction decision dated 26 May 2023, I only have powers to make a
determination on Mr Ws complaint relating to the pension as from May 1999. Mr W has
provided significant amounts of evidence/arguments and calculations that include
information and/or figures relating to before May 1999. I have read it all in full, but have only
commented where I think it is appropriate in determining the post-May 1999 issues.
I do understand Mr Ws suspicions. With-profits funds have attracted criticism for their
lack of transparency, and I accept that it is very difficult for policyholders to satisfy
themselves that they have received what they are entitled to under the terms of their
investments. And here Phoenix Life did also provide statements showing incorrect values
(which was the subject of Mr Ws previous complaint). It explained the values had been
over-inflated and the reasons for it, and it subsequently reduced them. Mr W considers it has
provided inconsistent explanations for the error and in how it has calculated the value of his
pension, which I appreciate all adds to his suspicions.
However its also clear that Mr Ws understanding of the operation of the pension has
developed over time. My understanding is that there is only one bonus rate declared, but
how that is actually applied to the different benefits will vary and over time, in the particular
circumstances here. I accept that Phoenix Lifes explanation may have lacked detail for Mr
Ws purposes, which was to recreate the values himself. But I dont think it was trying to
retrospectively provide an explanation that would fit with the values it was paying  in effect
cover up incorrect calculations.
Mr W has alleged, amongst other things, that Phoenix Life has not used the correct bonus
rates in calculating the value of his fund  he thinks it has used its own rates for a time when
it wasnt the pension provider. Phoenix Life provided a copy of the applicable reversionary
bonus rates in a letter to Mr W dated 3 July 2020. It appears the examples of its own
calculations Phoenix Life has provided use these rates (of particular relevance here is after
May 1999). However I checked with Phoenix Life that the bonus rates provided were the
historical rates for this particular policy. And it confirmed that they were  The Bonuses 
used were those relevant to this product type whilst owned by [the previous provider] and 
since Phoenix took over the book of business, ie those published by [the previous provider] 
up to the point Phoenix took over and those published by Phoenix since.As Ive said, Mr W has provided a number of calculations that he considers shows that
Phoenix Life valued his benefits incorrectly. Those calculations were considered by an
independent actuary on behalf of Mr W. The actuary himself said that Mr Ws calculations
effectively worked for the single contribution elements. And for the regular contribution
elements from the time they were made paid up. He said these elements were in line with
what Phoenix Life had provided. As Ive explained, I can only consider whether there is an
error from May 1999  prior to that the pension was an OPS. So on the face of it the actuary
didnt identify any problems with the post May 1999 figures Phoenix Life calculated. 
Phoenix Life has also said that its calculations have been checked numerous times by its
pension technicians and its actuaries. Whilst I accept that mistakes can be made, Phoenix
Life has gone into the basis of its calculations in much greater detail and provided
significantly more information than is usual in my experience of these types of complaint.
The calculations have been subject to a lot of scrutiny, by a number of different people and a
number of times.
Ive considered Mr Ws calculations and it seems to me, like the actuary instructed by Mr W,
that the calculations for the single premium benefits and post paid-up regular premium
benefits are largely consistent with the example calculations that Phoenix Life has provided.
Mr W has calculated that the paid-up value using the bonus rates provided by Phoenix Life
for the regular premium benefits is less than the value quoted and the adjustment doesnt
make sense, as it increases the benefits. The paid-up values were clearly calculated before
Phoenix Life took over the policy or had any involvement with it. Phoenix Life couldnt have
manipulated the paid-up values  however they were calculated  there is a
contemporaneous record of those benefits. So I think Mr W is effectively saying that both the
previous provider and Phoenix Life have calculated values incorrectly. As Ive said
previously, securing the paid-up benefits was a matter for the OPS Trustees. However I
think its worth saying that, if anything, that adjustment works in Mr Ws favour  it doesnt
show there has been an error or that it has resulted in Mr W receiving a lower fund value.
Mr W has referred to the letter from the previous provider dated 24 March 2004 which shows
that the reversionary bonuses to that date were £138,803. This was consistent with the
higher values subsequently quoted by Phoenix Life in statements up to and including 2008
which it later said were incorrect because of a system error, and it was revised downwards
(the subject of Mr Ws previous complaint). I asked Phoenix Life why the value from the
previous provider was consistent with its own value if the overvaluation was a result of a
Phoenix Life system error? Phoenix Life said it not only took over the book of business from
the previous provider but also the operating systems and the staff which administered these
products. It said any valuations were provided by the same systems and staff.
Ive also considered the example calculations that Phoenix Life provided for certain regular
and single premium benefits, and they appear consistent with the other information its
provided and the explanation for how the values are calculated.
Mr W has provided a number of calculations showing different comparative values for his
pension using different benchmarks - for example using FTSE returns and the Bank of
England base rate. However a with-profits fund can be made up of a number of asset
classes, including equities, bonds, other fixed interest securities and property related assets.
The proportion invested in each changes over time. A with-profits fund also provides certain
guarantees. For example the first single premium paid of £1,708 provided a guaranteed sum
at age 65 of £9,325. In effect it was guaranteeing to provide a rate of return of at least 5%
irrespective of subsequent performance. That has an intrinsic value in itself.
In my opinion neither the FSTE All Share or the Bank of England Base rate provideappropriate comparators to with-profits returns. I realise that the FTSE ALL share index was
referred to by the independent actuary. But I think he was using it in very broad terms to
provide some form of context for Mr W. In my view what the value of Mr Ws fund would
have been using either a FTSE Index or the Bank of England base rate is of very little help in
deciding if Phoenix Life has calculated the value of Mr Ws plan correctly.
In my provisional jurisdiction decision I said that Mr W had provided calculations showing the
overall investment returns on his plan. But that for comparative purposes he needed to
calculate the value using the actual contributions. In response Mr W said hed done that and
went onto mention his SCB (Super Compound Bonus) calculations.
I was actually referring to the calculations that Mr W had provided in his letter to the
investigator dated 9 October 2022. From what I could see almost all of them had been based
on a guaranteed sum or similar  rather than the actual premiums paid. Mr W had referred to
a number of different ways to measure the rate of return. But, as I say, I dont think these are
relevant as its the return on the actual contributions that is material - not on the guaranteed
sums which just form part of the structure of the plan.
As I have said, I can only consider the issues raised post May 1999. But I think it might be
helpful in considering those issues to look back at examples prior to that date to see the
overall return. The first single premium paid in 1986 was for £1,708. This provided a
guaranteed basic fund value of £9,325. The verification spreadsheet shows the amount paid
out at maturity corresponding to that benefit was over £36,000, which would be around a
9.5% investment return over the period. Similarly for the single premium payment of £103.4
made on 1 January 1997, a return of just over 7% compound per year would have been
made to provide the maturity sum on that slice of £504. The regular contributions started
near the end of the plan will drag back those returns (likely due to the high charges that
applied in the first years of starting regular contributions at that time). But on the face of it the
figures are similar to the 7.5% return calculated by the actuary  albeit he was using a very
broadbrush approach. Ultimately approximately £36,000 was paid into the plan over time up
to 1998 and its value in 2020 was over £257,000.
As I say, Mr W may wish to carry out his own calculations to calculate the total return made
by inputting all the contributions and at the dates they were paid. It will be below the figures
Ive referred to above taking all premiums into account, but above the lower figures that Mr
W has calculated. However in my experience the value paid doesnt appear suspiciously
low.
Mr W has said:
The value of my policy at any particular time, up to terminal bonus being added, is the sum
of the guaranteed amount plus attaching reversionary bonuses.
Its important to remember here that the terminal bonus is not part of the fund growth. It
comes from the schemes retained profits and shared fairly amongst faithful clients.
Ultimately a with-profits fund aims to pay policyholders their fair share of the profits (net of
expenses) that the fund has earned over the time they have held their policy. Thats in the
form of the basic guaranteed amount, annual and final bonuses in totality.
I realise that Mr W feels strongly that his benefits have been calculated incorrectly. However
Phoenix Life has checked its calculations a number of times, by a number of different people
and over a period of time; the actuary Mr W engaged didnt find any errors on the evidence
that was available to him; and Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Phoenix Life calculated
the value of Mr Ws pension incorrectly.Accordingly, Im not intending to uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Transfer delay
Mr W has referred to the transfer taking just over a year to complete from his normal
retirement date. However this time included a period where Mr W was disputing that Phoenix
Life had correctly calculated the value of his pension. Its clear that Mr W had a strongly
held belief that Phoenix Life had calculated its value incorrectly. Although Mr W had asked
Phoenix Life for a valuation in February 2020, he was then corresponding with it for a
number of months as he didnt agree with its figures.
Mr W has said it wasnt possible for him to transfer until he had received all the information
that he could get from Phoenix Life up to 5 August 2020. However Mr W could have started
the transfer process at any time and still complained about the figures. I accept that he
probably wasnt aware of that at the time, and didnt check it until a later date when he
referred the matter to us. But he could also have asked Phoenix Life about that position if
transferring as soon as possible was his main objective.
I think it was always likely that Mr W was ultimately going to refer the matter to us given his
long-held suspicions about the value. For the reasons Ive given, I havent seen any
persuasive evidence that Mr W wasnt paid the amount he was rightly entitled to. I dont think
its reasonable to hold Phoenix Life responsible for Mr W not transferring during this period
as he was disputing the value of his plan.
Mr W has said that after checking with our service that he could transfer but still complain
about the value, he confirmed to his IFA to start the transfer process on 17 August 2020. Ive
considered the exchanges from this point and appreciate there were a number. However Ive
only commented where I think its relevant in that it potentially caused a delay to the transfer.
Phoenix Life wrote to Mr W on 3 September 2020 saying it had received his authorisation to
provide information to his IFA. It provided information to his IFA in a letter dated 4
September 2020. This letter contained some incorrect details and only about one part of the
plan. However its not currently clear to me that this caused a delay, as it doesnt appear that
Mr Ws IFA requested further information until it contacted Phoenix Life on 15 October 2020.
And this was about tax-free cash. It received a response on 27 October 2020. Mr W has
referred to a letter he received from Phoenix Life dated 16 November 2020. He said it was
sent in response to a request he never made. I accept this will have further caused Mr W to
question Phoenix Lifes competence, but again I dont think it delayed the transfer in a
material way.
Mr Ws IFA requested policy values from Phoenix Life on 14 December 2020 which Phoenix
Life sent by letter dated 22 December 2020. My understanding is that Mr Ws IFA made its
formal recommendation to transfer on 4 March 2021. Mr W signed and returned the new
SIPP providers forms to transfer on 9 March 2021. Mr W was in correspondence with
Phoenix Life to clarify how the plan had been invested since hed reached his retirement
date.
Ultimately however, Phoenix Life then received a request to transfer on 9 April 2022. Mr W
has provided copies of his correspondence with the SIPP provider where it says it had sent
the transfer request on 30 March, 31 March and 8 and 9 April 2022. However irrespective of
the date first sent, on 9 April 2022 Phoenix Life checked back with the SIPP provider that Mr
W still wanted to transfer given he was disputing the value of the plan. Even if Phoenix Life
had received the request a few working days earlier, there wasnt a significant delay in it
acting on it. And like the investigator, I dont think it was unreasonable for Phoenix Life tocheck Mr W still wanted to transfer in the circumstances. The SIPP provider confirmed that
Mr W wanted to proceed on 22 April 2021. Phoenix Life issued its transfer quote and forms
on 4 May 2021 and received the advice declaration form on 10 May 2021. The transfer value
was sent on 19 May 2021.
I accept that in some instances from when Phoenix Life wrote to Mr W on 3 September 2020
saying it had received his authorisation to provide information to his IFA, it provided incorrect
information. However in considering the part of Mr Ws complaint about delays, whats
material is the impact that any errors made by Phoenix Life had on the timing of the transfer
 not just the fact it got something wrong. I dont think the incorrect information materially
delayed the transfer. I also accept that there were times it could have acted in a slightly
timelier manner. But I think this was a matter of a few working days, and didnt delay the
transfer date in a significant way.
As Ive said before, I appreciate that this is a long running dispute. Mr W has spent a
considerable amount of time and money in presenting his case. I realise he will be very
disappointed with my findings. However ultimately, for the reasons Ive set out above, I
havent been persuaded that it should succeed.
Taking all the above into account, I said my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr 
Ws complaint.
I asked Mr W and Phoenix Life to send me any further evidence or arguments that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr W provided further evidence and arguments to support his case which I have taken into 
account in making my final decision.
Phoenix Life said it accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Incorrect pension value
In responding to my provisional decision, Mr W has provided a number of comments and 
further calculations that relate to the plan pre-May 1999. As I explained in my jurisdiction 
decision dated 26 May 2023, I cant consider complaints about the pension prior to May 
1999. I recognise that is very frustrating for Mr W and leaves a lot of his questions 
unanswered. But that position isnt a matter of discretion  the rules Im bound by dont 
provide me with powers to make a determination on those pre-May 1999 issues. So I havent 
generally commented on the points Mr W has raised or his calculations relating to the plan 
prior to May 1999, unless I think it might be helpful to provide wider context.
Mr W also made a number of comments about what Phoenix Life and our 
investigators/adjudicator said and did or didnt do over the course of the investigations of 
both this complaint and his previous complaint.
As Mr W didnt agree with the firms explanation or the investigators findings the complaint 
was passed to me to make a final decision. Once a complaint is passed to an ombudsman it 
is for the ombudsman to decide what is/isnt relevant to deciding the fair outcome of the 
complaint. And what further evidence is/isnt required from either party to assist in making 
that decision. That can change through the course of the investigation and as understandings develop or change.  So although Ive taken into account whats been said 
and done or not done before by Phoenix Life and the adjudicators/investigators during the 
course of the investigation, I have to decide what evidence is or isnt relevant and what 
weight to put on it for myself.
Mr W has said that his SCB analysis shows differences in the values calculated by Phoenix 
Life, and that although they were small errors they were errors non-the-less. Mr W had 
correctly pointed out some errors but they were, as hes said, small, which Phoenix Life 
subsequently recognised and didnt materially affect the amount paid. However I do 
appreciate that these small errors, after Phoenix Life had said it had checked its calculations, 
add to Mr Ws doubts.
However, as Ive said, I can only consider any issues with the calculations post-May 1999. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mr Ws calculations were considered by an independent 
actuary who said Mr Ws calculations effectively worked for the single contribution elements 
throughout. And for the regular contribution from the time they were made paid up. Phoenix 
Life has said that its calculations have been checked numerous times by its pension 
technicians and its actuaries. And Ive also considered the calculations which I think are 
materially consistent with the example calculations that Phoenix Life provided from May 
1999. Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Phoenix Lifes calculations from May 1999 are 
incorrect. 
Mr W referred to the part of my provisional decision where Id said although one bonus rate 
was declared how that was actually applied to the different benefits varied over time. He said 
that was incorrect, and although bonus values change their application remained the same. 
My understanding is that the annual bonus rates applied to the pre-May 1999 regular 
premiums were adjusted when the plan was made paid up. But that the single premiums 
werent. 
Mr W said Phoenix Life was only prepared to provide three calculation examples whereas 
his SCB calculations showed all twenty-two.  In my opinion Phoenix Life provided a lot of 
information to Mr W and went into the basis of its calculations in a great deal of depth. I think 
its responses were reasonable and proportionate, and the information it has provided to Mr 
W has allowed him to form a good understanding of the operation of the plan. As Ive said, 
Mr Ws calculations are materially consistent with Phoenix Lifes calculations post May 1999. 
And I think the examples that Phoenix provided were sufficient to identify if there was likely 
to be a wider problem. 
Mr W has again questioned whether Phoenix Life used the correct bonus rates in its 
calculations. He said that the bonus rates used for the period he was with the previous 
provider are the ones Phoenix Life uses for all its inherited executive policies from other 
companies as shown on its website. He said that he doubted all companies used the same 
list.
Ive looked at the with-profits bonuses part of Phoenix Lifes website and it provides details 
of the differing types of plans its acquired over time and from different companies. It provides 
a number of different bonus rates for different inherited plans. Phoenix Life has confirmed 
that bonuses from previous companies are ring-fenced, and the historic figures remain in 
force after any changes in ownership. It provided details of different bonuses added to a 
different executive plan. Im not persuaded it uses the same historical bonus rates for all 
plans or that it used incorrect rates in calculating the value of Mr Ws pension.
Mr W has said that that the values hes calculated using alternative benchmarks werent 
meant to be precise or to calculate the correct values. But rather he was using them to 
illustrate how Phoenix Life had used the wrong values. Mr W made some further comparisons. But I dont think these assist; I dont think the figures based on alternative 
measures are helpful in determining the value of this plan for the reasons Ive previously set 
out.
The return on an investment is determined by the amount paid into the plan and when, and 
what is paid out and when. Mr W has said he agrees the best way to calculate the value is 
from the actual contributions and that he tried to do that, but couldnt as he didnt have the 
correct bonus values or the correct method. But Mr W doesnt need any information about 
sums assured or bonuses or methodology to calculate the actual return made on the 
premiums paid. As Ive said, its calculated by using the amounts paid in and when, and the 
amount paid out and when. 
However I think that is only part of the story. The plan provided a guaranteed pension at 
retirement date. My understanding is that Mr W could have taken a guaranteed pension from 
Phoenix Life of £28,605 a year. The cost of buying that income was significantly higher than 
the £257,452 Mr W decided to transfer. The value and effectively return measured on the 
cost to buy the guaranteed pension was significantly higher.
As I said in my provisional decision, a with-profits plan aims to pay policyholders their fair 
share of the profits (net of expenses) that the fund has earned over the time they have held 
their policy. That includes all of the basic guaranteed amount, annual and final bonuses. The 
return on investment includes all the above.
Mr W said I referred to an incorrect figure in my provisional decision  Id said the letter from 
the previous provider dated 24 March 2004 referred to a figure for reversionary bonuses of 
£138,803. That figure should have been £138,303. I apologise for that error. However I dont 
think it takes away anything from the point I was making.
Transfer delay
Mr W has said both the investigator and I have only quoted a few reasons for the delays in 
the transfer whilst he had detailed every one. And that a series of many small delays adds 
up to a great delay. 
Whilst Ive considered all the available evidence an arguments, I dont necessarily need to 
refer to or address each and every point made by the parties when giving reasons for my 
decision. Ill focus on what is, in my opinion, material to deciding the fair outcome of the 
complaint. 
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Phoenix Life was responsible for the 
delay in the transfer during the period that Mr W was questioning the veracity of its 
calculations. I appreciate that Mr W may consider his queries should have been relatively 
straightforward to answer when hes asking the firm that provides the product  i.e his 
pension. But the information that Mr W required wasnt something that Phoenix could 
provide off the shelf - Mr W required a lot of detail, and I dont think its unreasonable to take 
that into account. Mr W was perfectly entitled to dispute that the value of his plan had been 
calculated incorrectly. But as Ive said, Ive not been persuaded that Phoenix Life wasnt 
offering what Mr W was rightly entitled to. And I dont think its reasonable to hold Phoenix 
Life responsible for Mr W not transferring during the period he was disputing the value of his 
plan.
Mr W has said that he confirmed to his IFA to start the transfer process on 17 August 2020. I 
accept what Mr W has said that a number of small delays can add up to a bid delay. But I 
dont think they added up to a material delay from when Mr W confirmed he wanted to 
transfer.As Ive said before, I do recognise that Mr Ws complaint has been ongoing for a long time. 
Mr W has invested a lot of time, effort and money into providing evidence to support his 
case. But as Ive explained, I can only consider the matter from May 1999. So although Ive 
looked at the calculations as a whole, in terms of deciding the fair outcome of this complaint 
Ive focused on whether they identify there were likely to be any errors in the calculations 
from May 1999. And for the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that either the 
SCB calculations or the other evidence and arguments that have been presented suggest 
that there were.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman