DRN-4204856
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his consequent losses. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an incident and called Advantages recovery agent for assistance. He 
was unhappy that he had to wait for four hours for assistance until he was told to go home, 
and a keyless recovery would be made. Mr C said he wasnt told to retain his taxi receipt to 
reclaim his expenses. The recovery driver wasnt told the recovery was keyless and Mr C 
was caused inconvenience by having to contact Advantage again. Advantage told him the 
car would be recovered to its repairer.
But, unfortunately, this didnt happen, and Advantage couldnt locate the car. Mr C said he 
was pressed to declare the car stolen. But he declined to do this as he thought it was 
fraudulent. Mr C had to spend long periods on the phone to Advantage, his finance company 
and the police. He borrowed a car until he was provided with a courtesy car, but he was 
unhappy that it wasnt like for like. 
It took three months for Advantage to locate the car and it was then taken for repairs. Mr C 
wanted compensation for his months without the use of his car and for the stress and 
inconvenience caused him. 
Advantage initially upheld Mr Cs complaint about the delay in recovery and it offered to pay 
him £50 compensation and reimburse his £25 taxi fare, without a receipt. Advantage said it 
hadnt progressed the claim for a month in error. It closed the theft claim and it reopened his 
initial claim for the damage caused to his car. A week later, the car was located and 
recovered. Advantage offered Mr C £170 for 17 days loss of use until he was provided with 
a courtesy car. And it offered him £200 compensation for his trouble and upset. But Mr C 
was unhappy with this. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Advantage 
should also compensate Mr C for the stress caused by it telling him his car had been stolen. 
She thought it should waive the £345 policy excess and pay Mr C £250 further 
compensation.
Advantage replied that it disagreed that the excess should be waived as this was required by 
the policys terms and conditions and would always have been payable. Mr C replied that he 
had to pay his finance and other costs for a car that he was without for over three months. 
He thought the courtesy car should have been like for like. He wanted reimbursement for 
this, the claim removed and more compensation for the stress caused him by Advantages 
level of service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mr Cs experience. I can understand that the handling of his claim 
and Advantages level of service must have been very frustrating and stressful for him. Mr C 
has helpfully provided a detailed timeline of his experience. And Ive considered this 
alongside Advantages file. 
Advantage accepts that it has provided a poor level of service for Mr C:
There was an initial delay in his recovery, and he wasnt given information about his 
entitlement for onward travel.
The recovery agent wasnt told the recovery was keyless and so the instruction had to be 
repeated and Mr C had the inconvenience of contacting it and Advantage to sort matters. 
The car wasnt collected from its roadside location for over two months. Advantages 
agent couldnt locate the car, despite an earlier recovery agent attending the car at the 
site and Mr C providing evidence of this to Advantage.
Advantage incorrectly opened a theft claim and caused Mr C much stress and 
inconvenience by pressing him to make the theft claim against his wishes.
Advantage incorrectly halted progressing the claim, and looking for the car, for a month, 
causing an avoidable delay. 
When a business makes a mistake, as Advantage accepts it has done here, we expect it to 
restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact 
the error had on the consumer.
I can see that when Mr C first raised his complaint about the recovery and information 
provided, Advantage offered him £25 reimbursement for his taxi fare without a receipt as a 
gesture of goodwill and £50 compensation. Mr C said he received just £50. And I think 
Advantage should honour its offer and pay him a further £25 unless it has already done so. 
Mr C thought he was entitled to a like for like courtesy car whilst his car was being repaired. 
But I disagree. On page 10 of the policy document under Replacement car, Advantage 
states:
The replacement car will be provided by your Insurers Nominated Repairer
The service is only available while your Car is being repaired
The replacement car will usually be a group A vehicle
Mr C was provided with a three door, small car. I can understand that this was dissimilar to 
his own car. But this was his entitlement under the policy. And I cant say that Advantage 
was wrong in providing this. 
The car should have been provided from the date the car had been recovered and assessed 
for repairs, usually a week after recovery. But it took 17 days after the date of the incident for 
Advantage to provide a courtesy car. Mr C was able to borrow a family car and incurred 
costs in adding himself to the insurance. 
Advantage offered to pay Mr C £170 for 17 days loss of use when it said he was only 
entitled to £100 for 10 days. I would usually consider this fairly compensated Mr C in keeping 
with our approach. But Ill consider this below under the overall compensation I think 
Advantage should pay Mr C. 
Mr Cs car was eventually recovered and taken for repairs. Mr C was concerned about the 
effect on the car whilst it was on the roadside. But I can see that his car is usually kept on a 
driveway, and so outside. If Mr C is unhappy with the repairs made to his car following his 
claim, then he can complain to Advantage about this. And, if he remains unhappy, he can 
bring his complaint to us. 
Mr C said he should be compensated for having to pay his car finance in the meantime. But 
this isnt something covered by his policys terms and conditions. And Ill consider the impact 
of being without his own car when I look at the overall compensation payment. Mr C also said he wanted the claim removed from his record. But I dont think that would be 
fair or reasonable as he has made a claim on his policy and Advantage is obliged to keep an 
accurate record of his driving history. 
So, I think the recovery and repair of the car, the provision of a courtesy car, and the offer for 
loss of use restores Mr Cs position. So Ill now consider the impact the handling of the claim 
had on Mr C. 
Mr C has explained that he spent about 40 hours on calls to Advantage and its agents. He 
had a month when no contact was made. He was caused stress and upset by being pressed 
to make a theft claim that Advantage now agrees was incorrect. He didnt know where his 
car was. He was without the use of his own car and had to use a courtesy car that was 
smaller for months when his own car should have been recovered and repaired. 
Advantage offered Mr C £370 in total compensation for this. But I dont think that is sufficient 
for the months of stress and worry caused by its level of service. Our Investigator 
recommended that Advantage should waive the £345 policy excess and pay Mr C £250 
further compensation. 
Advantage said the policy excess is payable as its part of the insurance contract. And I 
would usually agree with this. But in Mr Cs particular circumstances I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Advantage to waive or refund it to compensate Mr C for the impact of its 
service failings. 
I think the total compensation would then be in keeping with our published guidance for the 
impact caused to Mr C. And so I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr C £25 further compensation (£75 in total) for its initial handling of his claim 
unless its already done so. 
2. Waive or refund Mr Cs policy excess for this claim and pay him £250 further 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman