The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) allowed a cheque to be debited 
from his account  despite it being dated for a point in the future. 
What happened
Mr J has explained he wrote out a cheque and put this in the post in December 2019. When 
filling out the cheque he had written the date of it as mid-January. Mr J has said he did this 
because he didnt get paid until later in the month and didnt want the funds to be cashed 
before that point.
However, Mr J said someone intercepted the cheque he sent, and altered the date on it. The 
alteration was still for a date in the future  but had been altered to a date a couple of weeks 
earlier then Mr J had originally detailed. Mr J said this meant the cheque was cashed earlier 
than it should have been. And his account went into its overdraft  incurring a charge.
Mr J said Nationwide shouldnt have allowed the cheque to have been debited from his 
account. He noted that alteration of the cheque was illegal, and he felt Nationwide had 
therefore benefited from allowing the cheque to be cashed, because of the overdraft fees 
this incurred.
Nationwide considered Mr Js complaint and felt it had acted fairly in allowing the funds to be 
released from his account. It said the terms and conditions of his account told him not to 
future date a cheque, and that it may still allow the money to be taken in these cases. It also 
noted that the bank that received the cheque, which was not Nationwide, should have looked 
at the cheque and made sure it was un-altered. Because Mr J didnt agree, he referred his 
complaint to this service for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She thought Nationwide had 
acted within its terms and conditions. And she felt the £25 compensation offered to Mr J, for 
a delay in it providing a copy of the altered cheque to Mr J, was reasonable.
Because Mr J didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When deciding whether Nationwide acted correctly by releasing the funds requested on the 
cheque, I need to consider the terms and conditions of Mr Js account. And whether 
Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably, in line with these terms. On looking at those terms, I 
think it did.
DRN-1602239The terms and conditions of Mr Js account do say that a future date must not be written on 
a cheque. And it notes that if a cheque is future dated, it can still pay the cheque when its 
received by it. 
In this instance Mr J had future dated the cheque. And when it was processed Nationwide 
allowed the funds to be released. Given Nationwide acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Js account when doing this, Im satisfied it acted fairly in processing the 
cheque  even though Mr J didnt want this processed until the future date he had detailed.
Mr J has explained the date on the cheque was altered, from a date in mid-January, to a 
date earlier in that month. He has provided a photo of the cheque when he wrote it, and a 
copy of the cheque after the date detailed on it had been changed. Looking at this, I accept 
the date on it was altered to one a few weeks earlier than Mr J had written it. 
But I dont think this changes the outcome of this complaint. Either date on the cheque was 
one in the future. And as above, the terms do highlight Nationwide can pay the cheque in 
these circumstances. 
Mr J has said the police are dealing with the person who altered the date on the cheque  for 
this and other issues. And Nationwide should have acted to stop the cheque on seeing it 
was altered. 
But I dont agree. It wasnt Nationwide that the cheque was cashed through. It was cashed at 
an alternative bank. So, it wouldnt have reviewed the cheque when it was deposited. And I 
havent seen any evidence to show the funds Nationwide released were to the wrong 
recipient. Mr J hasnt said the money was sent to the wrong person either. Just that it was 
sent earlier than it should have been. So, given this, and the above information on future 
dated cheques, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong.
From looking at the information sent to me, I can see Nationwide has accepted there was a 
delay between Mr J asking for a copy of the cashed cheque, and the time Nationwide 
provided this to him. It has accepted this took too long.
So, I do think it is reasonable to compensate Mr J for this. Mr J would have been 
inconvenienced by having to wait for this cheque  particularly given his concerns about its 
alteration. Nationwide has acknowledged this and offered an amount of £25 compensation 
by way of an apology. I do think this amount is reasonable to acknowledge the upset and 
inconvenience this issue would have caused. Its my understanding Nationwide has already 
paid this amount to Mr Js account. So, Im not asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
Given the above, Im satisfied the £25 compensation offered by Nationwide Building Society 
in respect of this complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I understand this 
amount has already been paid to Mr J. So, I dont require Nationwide Building Society to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2020.Rachel Woods
Ombudsman