DRN-4253500
The complaint
Miss H complains that Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter is holding her liable for a loan 
which she says she took out under duress, and which is unaffordable for her.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss H entered into a credit agreement with RateSetter. The loan was 
for £14,000. Miss H was due to repay £448.55 per month over a period of 36 months.
Miss H has explained that she was coerced into taking out this loan. She went on a date with 
someone but decided she wasnt interested in pursuing a relationship with him. She says the 
man became abusive and threatened her and her child, forcing her into taking out this loan 
and transferring on the funds.
According to her bank statements, she received the £14,000 loan on 3 December 2021  
alongside another £10,000 loan taken with another lender. That same day, £10,000 and then 
£7,000 were transferred to a new payee. Followed by a further £7,000 to that same payee a 
few days later. I understand the first two payments were made in branch and the final 
payment was made via mobile banking.
Within a week or so, Miss H reached out to RateSetter about what had happened. She said 
she wasnt aware of the loan and had been forced to sign the documents. RateSetter said it 
had sent her a text about the loan, meaning she would have been aware, and that it was a 
civil matter. She complained, but RateSetter maintained she was liable for the loan. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss H referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. They didnt think RateSetter ought to have been concerned about the 
application. They noted that Miss Hs income had been substantially inflated on the 
application. But overall, they thought it was reasonable for RateSetter to grant the lending 
based on the application and the results of its checks.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2023 explaining why I was minded to uphold this 
complaint. Both parties have since responded to confirm they have nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there are no further points or arguments to consider in response to my provisional 
findings, I see no reason to depart from these. Im therefore upholding this complaint for the 
same reasons as I did in my provisional decision, as set out below: 
Did Miss H take out the loan?
From the records Ive seen, it appears Miss H initially told RateSetter she wasnt aware that 
the loan was being taken out. But its not in dispute that she signed the agreement; she 
admits to doing so, albeit under duress. She also received a text about the application. 
Whilst she initially told RateSetter she didnt see this, she now accepts that she did. And she 
also emailed RateSetter shortly after signing the agreement.
I therefore consider it clear that, although I think the application was likely filled in by another 
party, Miss H was the one to sign it. And I think she ought to have understood that, by doing 
so, she was taking out lending and agreeing to the terms of the contract. So the starting 
position is that Miss H is bound by the terms of the loan agreement.
Was the money lent responsibly?
Part of Miss Hs complaint is that it was irresponsible for RateSetter to have granted this 
lending. She says she cant afford to repay it. And the income reported on the application 
(£60,000) was significantly higher than her actual income.
I would have expected RateSetter to complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself Miss H could afford to repay the lending in a sustainable way. Theres no set list 
of checks that it ought to have carried out, but Id expect it to consider factors such as the 
size and term in the lending when determining what level of checks were reasonable.
Under the terms of the agreement, Miss H was expected to repay a total of £16,147.80 over 
three years. That is a significant amount to repay. So I would have expected RateSetter to 
complete fairly thorough checks to reassure itself it had adequately considered Miss Hs 
circumstances.
Looking at the checks RateSetter completed, Im not persuaded they were proportionate. It 
seems RateSetter largely relied on Miss Hs credit file to verify her details. But the 
information it has provided about those credit checks appears to be inaccurate. For example, 
it doesnt show an ongoing hire purchase Ive seen evidence Miss H was (and is) repaying  
meaning it didnt adequately consider her other financial commitments.
Additionally, the application lists Miss Hs yearly income as £60,000  with a monthly income 
of £3,414.59. Whereas her statements show her monthly income was far less than this, 
seemingly around £1,500 per month in the months leading up to the lending.
RateSetter says it did assess Miss Hs income and it passed its confidence threshold. But I 
dont consider that reasonable. Her actual income appears to be less than half the income 
recorded on her application. In my view, Miss Hs level of her income compared to the 
amount of lending, as well as the fact there were such a big discrepancy in the information 
provided in the application, ought to have led RateSetter to have completed further checks.
If RateSetter had looked into Miss Hs circumstances further, Im not persuaded it would 
have been satisfied she could sustainably repay the lending. The monthly repayments 
utilised around a third of her total income. And when accounting for her expenses (such as 
rent, bills, hire purchase repayments, travel costs, groceries and childcare), it doesnt appear 
to leave much, if any, disposable income. In fact, Miss H says her outgoings are higher than 
her income.
And so Im not persuaded the money was lent responsibly. I therefore consider it unfair for 
RateSetter to charge Miss H interest and fees on top of the lump sum it gave her. Miss H still received a payment of £14,000 from RateSetter. So my starting position is that 
RateSetter can seek to recover this. But Ill go on to consider whether thats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances  given the way in which the loan was taken out, how 
the funds were used, and Miss Hs circumstances.
Is it fair and reasonable for RateSetter to expect Miss H to repay the capital?
Im not persuaded RateSetter ought to have realised Miss H might be acting under duress at 
the point of granting the lending. The application was done online and was verified using 
Miss Hs genuine phone number and email address. So I dont think it had grounds to be 
concerned about the circumstances under which shed signed the agreement.
Miss H says that, only minutes after being forced to sign the agreement, she sent RateSetter 
an email saying: I do not wish to take this loan, please can you cancel thank you. But Ive 
found that, around half an hour later, she sent a further email saying: sorry please ignore 
that.
I therefore dont agree that RateSetter ought to have cancelled the loan (which in any event 
had already been released upon the agreement being signed) or followed up further. 
Miss H didnt do anything further to return the funds or notify RateSetter of the situation until 
after the funds had been transferred on.
But Ive also thought about what RateSetter ought to have done when Miss H notified it of 
the circumstances in which the loan was taken. I can see she transferred the funds on to a 
third party within a few days of receiving them. She didnt spend the funds herself and 
theres no indication she benefitted from them in any way. I also think her personal 
circumstances, which RateSetter are aware of, made her more vulnerable to being coerced 
in this way.
I am mindful that, despite initially telling RateSetter the transfers were completed by the 
person threatening her and/or his associate, Miss H did go into branch to complete some of 
these payments after they were blocked. So while I accept the payments may have been 
initiated by someone other than Miss H, she did complete steps to enable some of them to 
go through.
RateSetter has expressed concern about some discrepancies in Miss Hs account of what 
happened. Such as about who transferred the funds. Additionally, she initially said she 
wasnt aware of the loan. Yet she received a text about it, signed the application, and then 
emailed RateSetter about it.
I therefore understand some of RateSetters concerns. That said, I am persuaded Miss H 
was likely coerced/pressured into agreeing to the loan and then transferring on the funds. 
Although she initially only reported the incident to Action Fraud, I can see why she did that  
as the situation does feel somewhat akin to a scam. And she has since also reported the 
threats made to the police, which I dont think she would be likely to do if she was complicit 
in the set up.
I also dont consider all the discrepancies to be that suspicious. Miss H has explained that 
the individual threatened her and her child, so she was understandably scared and unsure of 
what to do. And so that has to be borne in mind when considering why Miss H took the 
action she did (such as going to branch to complete the payments).I also think that, once the incident was over, she may have been wary of how it might be 
perceived and so have sought to minimise what she knew. That doesnt mean she hasnt 
been the victim. Ive not seen anything to suggest shes in any way benefitted from the loan 
funds.
Im also conscious of the large financial impact this situation has had on Miss H. She 
recently tried to set up a repayment plan with RateSetter. And it told her it couldnt do so as 
the repayments would be unaffordable for her. Miss H has been seeking support from a debt 
charity, but it looks like any options available to her in order to repay or release her from this 
debt would have a very large impact on her.
And so given the circumstances under which this loan was taken; the fact Miss H hasnt 
benefitted from it; and the large impact it would have on her if she were to be expected to 
repay the loan, I dont consider it fair and reasonable for RateSetter to pursue her for this 
amount. Id also point out to RateSetter that, even if it tried to do so, it appears unlikely to me 
that it would be able to recover much of the borrowing within a reasonable time.
Putting things right
I understand Miss H hasnt made any repayments towards this loan. But if she has, 
Metro Bank PLC trading as RateSetter should refund these amounts and pay 8% simple 
interest per year on them, from the dates of payment to the date of settlement.
RateSetter should also write-off this lending  i.e. stop pursuing Miss H for the debt  and 
update her credit file to reflect this. It should also remove any adverse information recorded 
on her credit file in relation to the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank 
PLC trading as RateSetter to put things right as set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman