DRN-3520651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S are represented in bringing this complaint but for clarity Ill refer to 
Mr and Mrs S in relation to comments made on their behalf.
Mr and Mrs S bought a timeshare trial membership from a business, Business X, in 
July 2003. The cost of the timeshare was £2,996 and that was paid in part using a loan with 
GE Money trading as First National Consumer Finance Limited. The loan was in joint names.
A further loan was taken out in June 2004, also to fund a timeshare purchase. Only limited 
documentation is available and so we dont know the amount of this loan or the total cost of 
the product, but this loan was settled in July 2005.
Mr and Mrs S say that when they took out the timeshare, they were sold it as an investment. 
They are also unhappy that the product was misrepresented, and the maintenance fees kept 
increasing. They also said they were pressured and that there was an unfair relationship in 
place. Mr and Mrs S say that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, they would 
not have taken out the membership in the first place.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs S, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It responded to say 
it didnt have any information on its systems about the 2003 loan due to the time that had 
passed. So any information about the loan would have been destroyed around six years 
after it was settled. It said the 2004 loan was paid off in 2005.
As the sales took place many years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the 
complaint about both loans had been brought too late under the relevant provisions 
contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA).
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too late, so 
they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They also looked 
at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan predated the 
enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs S requested the case be referred to an ombudsman and I issued my provisional 
decision on 28 April 2022. I explained why I wasnt intending on upholding the complaint 
based on the information available. Neither party responded to this decision by the deadline 
and so I am now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. And 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs S if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not 
because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to 
us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to 
reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs S said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the 
timeshare agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if 
GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it 
would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it 
clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs S may have to bring these 
claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im 
considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 1887 
that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action brought for 
a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a claimant has a 
period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs S brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was 
brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs S had 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ss case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in 
July 2003 and June 2004. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, 
they say, on the misrepresentations of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations 
not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they 
suffered a loss, as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in July 2003 and June 2004 
respectively, so Mr and Mrs S had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to 
contact GE Money about their claim until 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in 
the LA. So I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our investigator considered whether Mr and Mrs S could have made a claim under s.140A 
CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their credit agreement.S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act sets 
out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement had 
completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in respect of 
that credit agreement.
GE Money has shown that Mr and Mrs Ss June 2004 agreement was settled in 2005. 
GE Money hasnt been able to provide evidence of when Mr and Mrs Ss July 2003 loan 
ended as it says it was closed some time ago and it doesnt have records that go that far 
back. Im not surprised by that as there is no requirement for GE Money to keep records 
indefinitely.
But I note that the loan was taken out in July 2003 and the Payment Protection Insurance set 
up at the same time was for 34 months. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs Ss agreement ended in 2006 at the latest, so I dont think 
they are able to make a claim under s.140A.
However, The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel 
[2009] EWHC 3264 (QB) that when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes 
ran from the date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the 
claim was made. As with an action under s.75 CCA, the limitation period is six years, so  
even if Mr and Mrs Ss July 2003 loan was settled after 6 April 2008, they would still need to 
have brought an action within six years of when it was settled. As GE Money has no record 
of this loan I think its likely it was settled at least six years before they raised their claim.
Commission
I have also considered what Mr and Mrs S say about the amount of commission that might 
have been paid by GE Money to Business X for arranging the loan  they think GE Money 
should have told them about that. GE Money says it doesnt have details of what, if anything, 
was paid in Mr and Mrs Ss case due to the passage of time.
From what Ive seen across the industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to be low 
and of less than 10%. Im satisfied GE Money didnt breach any duty in making such a 
payment  nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in 
these circumstances. And I dont think the levels of commission that are normally paid in this 
situation were sufficiently high to mean that GE Money should have appreciated not 
disclosing commission to Mr and Mrs S risked the relationship being unfair under 
section 140A.
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim was 
brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr and 
Mrs S may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I 
can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs S might have against the 
supplier and/or GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think 
it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded 
that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr and Mrs S say it was irresponsible of GE Money to provide this loan and proper credit 
checks were not carried out. This assertion was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-
creditor relationship under Section 140A. As Ive already explained, I think Mr and Mrs S 
have brought their claim under s.140A LA too late in the circumstances  and this includes 
whether a proper affordability assessment was carried out at the time of lending in so far as 
it would affect the fairness of their relationship.But Ive also looked at whether our service can consider a complaint about unaffordable 
lending in its own right and I dont think we can. This is because lending money under a 
regulated credit agreement of the kind in question here wasnt an activity covered by our 
jurisdiction in July 2003. So, I cant consider GE Moneys decision to lend any further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman