DRN-3429537
The complaint
In May 2018, Strategic Solutions Financial Services (Strategic) advised Mr S to transfer his 
final salary pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He followed this 
recommendation and the transfer was concluded in August 2018. He also appointed a 
Discretionary Manager (DM) to manage the SIPP. He says, since the transfer, Strategic has 
not delivered the level of service to him that he was entitled to, that adds value to the DMs 
role and that justifies the fees it has charged him. He seeks a refund of those fees.
What happened
Mr S terminated Strategics service on 15 November 2020. In his complaint, he highlighted 
the following  lack of professionalism and on-going advice in Strategics service; Strategics 
lack of interest in him as a client and basic customer service; lack of contact from his 
Strategic adviser; its failure to provide professional and documented annual reviews (which 
were due in September 2019 and September 2020); its failure to contact him from March 
2020 and until he terminated its service in November that year, despite the serious and 
turbulent effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the financial markets during this period; and 
its failure to provide, as promised, follow up discussions on the DMs quarterly statements for 
his SIPP.
Strategic disputes the complaint. It highlighted the following  that, between August 2018 
and his complaint in November 2020, it exceeded its service obligation to him; it was always 
attentive to him and to his requests for meetings and information (requests that it met), and it 
has found no record/evidence of him having to chase for responses from the adviser; it 
completed an interim review with him in March 2020 but it accepts that the adviser did not 
contact him in June that year as he promised; the Wealth Development Service(WDS) plan 
was what Mr S selected and it provided for one annual review, however the adviser 
conducted two reviews in 2019 and an interim review in 2020; follow up to the DMs quarterly 
SIPP statement was neither offered/promised by the adviser nor was it a part of the WDS 
plan; prior to selecting and signing the agreement for the WDS plan he was given full 
disclosure and documentation on its services and related costs/charges, and he signed 
agreements in 2018 and 2019 committing to the relevant terms and charges; for these 
reasons it disputes Mr S complaint allegations, but it acknowledges the advisers failed 
promise to contact him in June 2020 and, without prejudice and as a gesture of goodwill, it 
has offered him an ex-gratia payment of £100.
In response, and further to his core assertions (which he maintains), Mr S mainly says:
Notable periods of no contact from the adviser include  August 2018 to April 2019 
(the first eight months of him being a new client); May to September 2019; and March 
to November 2020. This amounts to a total of 20 months of no contact from the 
adviser. In the context of his 26 months relationship with Strategic, this was a service 
failure.
Strategic says his meetings with the adviser in May 2019 (in person) and in March 
2020 (telephone) were interim review meetings, they were not and, to the best of his 
knowledge, he never received minutes, agreed actions or an outcome letter after 
each meeting.
Strategic says his meeting with the adviser on 8 October 2019 was a full annual 
review meeting, it was not and, to the best of his knowledge, he never received 
minutes, agreed actions or the annual review letter that it claims to have sent him 
thereafter. 
Strategic concedes that the adviser did not contact him after March 2020 and did not 
contact him in June 2020 as promised.
The above points show why he retains his core assertions. He initiated the meetings 
held with the adviser. The adviser did not exceed the level of service he was entitled 
to, in fact the adviser did not meet that level of service, hence his complaint. The 
adviser confirmed to him that Strategic received a copy of the DMs quarterly SIPP 
statements and he undertook to follow up each statement with a discussion, which 
never happened.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She mainly said as follows:
Evidence of the WDS plan shows that it provided Mr S with an annual meeting (in 
person or by telephone); a review of his financial goals and objectives; an annual risk 
assessment; up-to-date valuation of his investments and a review of those 
investments (and of impacts of key events); implementation of agreed changes; a 
review report; and access to Strategics client support team for ad hoc enquiries.
This information was in the services information disclosure Strategic gave Mr S in 
June 2018. In addition, the client agreements he signed in June 2018, May 2019 and 
October 2019 confirmed his agreement with an annual charge of 0.5% (of his 
investments value) for the WDS plan, after application of a 0.25% discount that was 
given to him. There was a higher level of service in the Wealth Optimisation Plan 
(WOP) at the higher annual charge of 1% (of investment value), or 0.75% if the 
same discount was applied. The WOP provided for a minimum of two reviews per 
year and unlimited adviser access.
Based on the WDS plan he selected (in each of the three client agreements he 
signed), it was/is not reasonable for Mr S to have expected contact beyond the 
annual review. In his relationship with Strategic, he received the initial 
recommendation in August 2018, two reviews in 2019 and a telephone review in 
March 2020. In the context of the components of the WDS plan, the servicing he 
received exceeded what he was entitled to under that plan.
The service agreement was specific on what the review would cover and 
documentary evidence of the 2019 reviews that happened in Mr S case shows that 
they covered the relevant areas and that Strategic delivered on its obligation in this 
respect. There is nothing in the signed agreements or in evidence of communications 
with the adviser that provided for the quarterly SIPP statement discussion/review that 
Mr S says he was promised. 
Overall, Mr S received the service he paid for, and more, so he has no grounds for 
the fee refund he seeks.
Mr S disagreed with this outcome and the case was referred to an ombudsman.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons she gave. The terms agreed by Mr S and the service information 
disclosed (and agreed) for the WDS plan are reasonable starting points. Where, as in his 
case, a claim is made for the refund of service fees, relevant considerations can reasonably 
begin with evidence of the service agreed. The next consideration could then turn to 
evidence of whether (or not) the agreed service was delivered.
We have a copy of the initial client agreement signed by Mr S on 1 June 2018. The service 
basis described in it is the provision of financial/investment advice, split between the initial 
advisory component and the optional ongoing advisory component. His complaint is about 
the latter, not the former. In this respect, the concluding part of the agreement confirms three 
different service levels  an ad hoc/transactional level, the WDS level and the WOP level.  
Mr S selected the WDS level of service at the agreed annual fee of 0.5% (of the investments 
value). He agreed and signed what appears to be an identical version of the client 
agreement on 8 October 2019, and he selected the same service level at the same annual 
percentage fee.
At the outset, Mr S was given Strategics What we do and how we charge document. This 
is the service information disclosure I referred to above. It is expressly drafted as a part of 
the overall terms of agreement between Strategic and its client, and it is the document that 
appears to have informed Mr S selection of the WDS ongoing service level, amongst the 
other two, from the outset. It defines each service level. The differences between the WDS 
and the WOP levels are like the investigator summarised. In simple terms, the former 
entitled the client to one overall annual review service (including an investor profile review, a 
review of investments, a review report and implementation of changes) based on one 
meeting (in person or by telephone) with the clients adviser, plus access to Strategics client 
team for ad hoc enquiries; whereas the latter entitled the client to more  the components of 
the WDS plus a minimum of one additional annual meeting/review with the adviser, unlimited 
access to the adviser (distinct from access to the client team), Capital Gains Tax 
assessment, a waiver of charges for top-up investments and use of the Bed & ISA facility.
As the investigator said, and in terms of Strategics ongoing advisory service, Mr S was 
essentially entitled to one review (with associated elements) per year. He also had access to 
the client team but that was not the same as access to the adviser. Access to the adviser, 
other than for the purpose of the annual review, was not a part of the WDS service he 
selected and paid for  instead it was a part of the WOP service that he did not select. For 
this and the above reasons, I do not consider that there is a reasonable basis upon which he 
can claim an expectation, from the adviser, of anything other than the annual review. There 
is no evidence that he was entitled to more, from the adviser, than that. This finding extends 
to his claim about a service from the adviser to review the SIPPs quarterly statements. As 
the investigator said, there is nothing in the agreements or in evidence of correspondence 
with the adviser to show that Strategic committed to such a service.
Mr S argument about no contact from the adviser for 20 of his 26 months relationship with 
Strategic should be considered in the above context, and in the full facts of the relationship. 
The first three months of the relationship, between May and August 2018, related to the 
initial advice component of Strategics service. Mr S complaint is not about that, it is about 
the ongoing advice component that occupied during the following 23 months. In three of 
those 23 months, he had three meetings (twice in person and one by telephone) with the 
adviser. The first happened in May 2019, nine months after the SIPP transfer; the second happened five months thereafter in October 2019; and the third happened another five 
months thereafter in March 2020 and was held over the telephone due to the onset of the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
It is not disputed that the adviser promised to make follow up contact in June 2020 but did 
not do so. It also does not appear to be disputed that that a full review meeting for 2020 did 
not happen  the meeting in March 2020 has been acknowledged by Strategic as an interim 
meeting. However, the fact that Mr S terminated the service in November 2020 cannot 
reasonably be ignored. This, plus the fact that an interim review happened in March plus the 
possibility that a follow up/full review meeting could have been held before or by the end of 
2020 (but for Mr S termination of service) means I am not persuaded to conclude that 
Strategic failed to discharge its review obligation to Mr S in 2020  I give further reasoning 
for this below. He says the review was due in September that year. The obligation was to 
provide an annual review for 2020, so I consider it fair to take the entire year into account, 
hence my consideration that the full review could have been held before or by the end of the 
year, but for the service termination in November.
Mr S says none of the three meetings served as reviews and that, to the best of his 
knowledge, he received no review report or correspondence after each was held. I have 
seen a letter from the adviser to Mr S dated 7 May 2019. It is correctly addressed and, whilst 
he says he did not receive it, I am persuaded by Strategics record that it was sent to him. It 
refers to the meeting held in the previous week and to matters discussed in relation to the 
SIPP. It presents what appears to be an interim review of his personal circumstances, his 
objectives and his financial arrangements. On balance, I am persuaded that this stands as 
evidence of the interim review conducted for Mr S/his SIPP, in person, in May 2019.
A copy of the advisers Annual Review letter to Mr S dated 24 October 2019 has been 
shared with us. It is correctly addressed and, whilst he says he did not receive it, I am 
persuaded by Strategics record that it was sent to him. It is more detailed than the April 
2019 letter. It refers to a review meeting held with Mr S and it is divided into sections that 
include a summary of the overall review of the SIPPs suitability, a review of Mr S personal 
circumstances, a review of his objectives, a review of his risk profile and capacity for loss 
and a review of costs, charges and of the ongoing advisory service itself. On balance, I 
consider that this stands as evidence of the full annual review conducted (and reported) for 
Mr S/his SIPP, in person, in October 2019. Mr S says there is no evidence that he signed the 
section at the bottom of the letter acknowledging its receipt. This is true, I have not seen a 
version of the letter with his acknowledgement signature. However, that does not mean the 
letter was not sent to him and, for the reason I stated earlier, I consider that it was.
I have seen an exchange of emails between the adviser and Mr S on 20 March 2020, before 
and after the telephone meeting they held on this date. Evidence of correspondence prior to 
this date show that the meeting was planned for the purpose of reviewing Mr S pension 
arrangement and that it was held over the telephone because of the COVID-19 pandemic 
outbreak at the time. In an email from Mr S to the adviser on 23 March, after the meeting, he 
enquired about a matter he omitted to raise during the meeting on 20 March. He sought 
advice about either taking a lump sum from other pensions he had or transferring those 
pensions into the SIPP. The adviser provided a reasonably detailed response the following 
day, and invited him to return if he needed further help, clarification or a chat about the 
matter. Overall, on balance and in light of this evidence, I am satisfied that an interim review 
was conducted for Mr S in March 2020. I also note the extent of correspondence between 
him and the adviser before and after the telephone meeting on 20 March. The adviser 
appears to have given him the benefit of an elevated contact service akin to the unlimited 
adviser access under the WOP, even though he had not paid for such a service. I consider 
this body of correspondence around the 2020 interim review meeting as a further reason 
why I do not consider that there was a service failure simply because the full review later in the year did not happen before Mr S terminated the service.
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that Mr S has 
grounds for the fees refund that he seeks; he received the service from Strategic that he was 
entitled to and, in some respects, he appears to have received more than the service he was 
entitled to.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman