DRN-4199509
The complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave him incorrect advice which has resulted 
in an old address being recorded on his credit file.
What happened
Mr D opened a bank account with Lloyds in 2020. Upon opening the account, he benefited 
from a free annual magazine subscription. Mr D didnt want the free magazines, but his 
father did. In order for the free magazines to be sent directly to his father, Mr D says he was 
advised by Lloyds to change the address on the account to his fathers.
In 2023 Mr D noticed that his fathers address was showing on his credit file. He thought this 
was having an adverse effect on his credit report. Unhappy, he contacted Lloyds. He said 
Lloyds had given him incorrect advice by telling him to change the address to his fathers. He 
wanted the address to be updated to his own, and he wanted compensation for the trouble 
this had caused him.
Lloyds checked its records and could see that it previously held Mr Ds fathers address, but 
that it also had his address linked to the account (which was now closed). It recommended 
that Mr D contact the credit reference agencies if he wanted the address to be removed from 
his file. Mr D did this but was told that only Lloyds could update the address.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to us. An investigator looked into the 
matter and concluded that Lloyds had done nothing wrong. The investigator asked Lloyds for 
call recordings and system notes to see whether it had incorrectly advised Mr D to change 
the address on the account to his fathers  but he couldnt find any evidence of this. The 
investigator also thought that having Mr Ds fathers address associated with the closed 
account wasnt have any impact on Mr Ds credit file. As a result, he didnt think Lloyds 
needed to do anything further.
Mr D disagreed. He said he only wouldve changed the address on the account (so his father 
could benefit from the free magazine subscription) if Lloyds had advised him to do so. He 
maintained that he wanted compensation for the trouble this has caused and the impact on 
his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain my findings below.
I understand Mr D feels strongly about his complaint, but when looking at cases like this I 
have to consider whether Lloyds has acted unfairly and if so, whether theyve done enough 
to put things right.
In this case, I dont think theres enough evidence to suggest Lloyds has acted unfairly here. 
Ive reviewed Lloyds system notes for the account and listened to several telephone calls 
between Lloyds and Mr D throughout the time the account was open. None of these suggest 
Lloyds advised Mr D to change the address on the account. I think it is more likely than not, 
Mr D asked Lloyds how he could arrange for the magazine subscription to be posted directly 
to his fathers address and Lloyds said the only way that could be done is if the address on 
the account was his fathers. At that point it was down to Mr D to decide whether he 
registered the account to his own address or his fathers. I dont think its likely, based on the 
evidence Ive seen, that Lloyds advised him to do this, or made him do this. I think its more 
likely that it was suggested as an option for Mr D to consider.
The information Lloyds provides to credit reference agencies has to be an accurate reflection 
of the information they hold about a customer. So, if the address associated with the account 
at the time was Mr Ds fathers, then this is the information Lloyds wouldve provided to the 
credit reference agencies. Ive not seen any evidence to show that the address is impacting 
Mr Ds credit score or his ability to obtain credit. There are many contributing factors to a 
credit score and if Mr D has concerns about his, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies and they will be able to provide more information about his score and what he can 
do to improve it.
Lloyds has provided reassurance that the address it now holds on record is Mr Ds, not his 
fathers. So, I dont think there is anything further for it to update or do.
Given what Ive said above, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly and as a result I dont 
think it needs to do anything further or pay Mr D any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Rachel Killian
Ombudsman