DRN-4365095
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) rejected a 
claim on their home insurance policy and voided the policy, saying there had been a 
misrepresentation. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a buildings and contents insurance policy through their bank in 
February 2013 and renewed the policy each year. The insurance was initially provided by a 
different insurer but from February 2018 was provided by RSA.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on the policy in September 2021 after they noticed cracks in 
some of the internal walls, particularly one of the walls on the first floor.
RSA arranged for a loss adjuster to inspect the property. They provided a report in October 
2021. This noted that there had been cracks previously  Mr M said he had first noticed 
some cracks around 20 years earlier and hed had repairs done twice, the last time around 
six years earlier.
 
The report said there were a number of issues at the property, including damp, and further 
investigation was needed as the cause of the damage wasnt clear.
RSA carried out some further investigations including an interview with Mr M. In May 2022 a 
letter was sent to Mr M saying that, following the interview, RSA had decided to void his 
policy as from February 2018. The letter referred to a fraud condition in the policy terms and 
said 
the policy had been voided due to a breach of that condition;
because the claim was deliberately misrepresented, it would not give any refund of 
premium;
where fraud is identified, it may share that information with fraud prevention 
agencies.
Mr and Mrs M complained but RSA didnt change its decision. In its final response to the 
complaint RSA said there had been ongoing subsidence damage before the policy was 
taken out and the policy was to be voided from the start due to misrepresentation.
When Mr and Mrs M referred the complaint to this Service our investigator said the 
information RSA had provided was inconsistent, it had not provided evidence showing the 
damage was caused by subsidence rather than anything else, and there was evidence of 
other problems. She did not think there had been a qualifying misrepresentation at the start 
of the policy or that Mr and Mrs M should have made RSA aware of damage during the 
policy. 
The investigator said RSA should reinstate the policy, deal with the claim, remove any 
records of misrepresentation or policy voidance and pay compensation for all the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M.
RSA disagrees with the investigator and has requested an ombudsmans decision but hasnt 
provided any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In making my decision I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case, taking into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to take reasonable care, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have either offered the policy on different 
terms or not offered insurance at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including how clear and specific the questions asked were. 
RSA didnt ask any questions, but provided a list of statements about the property and asked 
them to confirm they were correct. The relevant statement for this case was:
The home isnt showing any sign of, or has ever had any damage caused to it by 
subsidence, landslip or heave.
This statement is not a general one about the condition of the property  its specifically 
about subsidence. There had been some cracks in the property at different times over the 
previous 20 years but these had been repaired. I dont think Mr and Mrs M needed to report 
all the maintenance they had done at the property. They needed to say if the property had 
had subsidence. 
Looking at the reports on the condition of the house, RSA hasnt shown Mr and Mrs M were 
aware the cracks were caused by subsidence rather than something else. The report from 
October 2021 said not all of the damage was caused by subsidence; there were some signs 
of subsidence but also damage caused by water ingress, thermal movement and routine 
maintenance repairs. Indeed the report said the cause of the damage was not clear and 
further investigation was needed. Mr and Mrs M may have know there had been some 
problems with their property but that doesnt mean they knew they were caused by 
subsidence.
For this to be a misrepresentation RSA would need to show Mr and Mrs M should have told 
it there had been subsidence but I dont think it has shown they knew the problems were due 
to subsidence.
The reasons given by RSA for its decision have been inconsistent, for example saying at 
one point Mr and Mrs M didnt disclose the subsidence in order to get a lower premium 
(without producing evidence showing this) and at other points that they didnt think the 
damage was significant and had repaired it themselves. It also said Mr and Mrs M should have made it aware of the damage during the policy term. Before this claim in 2021, the last 
time this damage had appeared was in 2015 and at that point RSA wasnt the insurer. So, I 
dont agree that Mr and Mrs M needed to make RSA aware of the damage.
RSA also referred to a condition in the policy relating to fraud rather than misrepresentation 
and didnt refer to the relevant law or set out how it had met the requirements in CIDRA that 
would allow it void the policy. It doesnt seem clear what the basis of its decision was. 
For these reasons, I dont think RSA has shown Mr and Mrs M failed to take reasonable care 
or that there was a misrepresentation. So it wasnt fair to void the policy.
All of this has been very difficult for Mr and Mrs M. They have been very upset trying
to handle the claim and this has affected their health. Mr M has been in hospital twice during 
the claim and says the distress caused by this claim has contributed to his ill health. They 
were very upset at being accused of fraud. Taking this into account I agree its fair they 
should be compensated for the distress caused to them.
Putting things right
To put things right RSA needs to
reinstate the policy from 2018 onwards;
remove any record of misrepresentation or fraud and of the policy being voided from 
all internal and external databases;
consider the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy; and
pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs M.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to take the steps 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman