DRN-3693978
The complaint
Mr S complains about the settlement payment provided by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) 
after he was involved in a car accident that wasnt his fault, under his motor insurance policy.
Mr S is represented by Miss S in his complaint. For ease I will refer to Mr S throughout my 
decision. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr S was involved in a car accident. He made a claim to Aviva. He was 
offered a settlement payment for £3,350 as it thought his car was beyond economical repair. 
Mr S didnt think this was enough. He says he bought the car for £5,000 and from looking 
online cant see a similar car for the amount Aviva offered. Mr S says he recently had two 
new tyres fitted and the car had been MOTd. 
Mr S says he has been without a car since November 2021, which has caused 
inconvenience and difficulties taking his daughter to school. He wants Aviva to provide a 
higher offer and to return the premium payments from the time of the accident to date. In 
addition, he doesnt think he should have to pay the excess fee. 
Aviva told Mr S its engineer valued his car using the industry trade guides from the time of 
his loss. It says it also looked at similar vehicles available in the market to confirm its 
valuation was realistic. In its complaint response to Mr S, Aviva says it acted correctly and in 
line with its policy terms. 
Mr S didnt think Aviva had treated him fairly and referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She thought Avivas offer was fair based on the 
valuations it had obtained. She also checked with another trade guide, which gave a 
valuation within the range Aviva obtained.
Our investigator says Mr S hadnt complained to Aviva about his excess payment or 
premiums. She says an excess is payable when making a claim irrespective of who was at 
fault. And that Mr S can contact Aviva to discuss a return of premiums. If he isnt satisfied 
with the response he receives, he can raise a complaint and has the option to refer to our 
service.   
Mr S didnt think this was a fair outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but 
I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
I can understand that Mr S wants to get the best settlement offer he can from Aviva so he 
can buy a like-for-like replacement car. Ive looked at his policy terms to understand what is 
expected in these circumstances. I note Mr Ss remarks that he paid more than Aviva is 
offering for his car and he cant buy a replacement for this amount. But his policy provides 
the market value in the case of a total loss of his vehicle. 
The policy terms, under section one, say:
If your vehicle is lost, stolen, or damaged, we will:
-Repair your vehicle unless you notify us that you want us to pay someone else to 
repair it; or
-Pay you a cash amount equal to the loss or damage.
The most we will pay is the market value of your vehicle 
The terms dont explain how the market value is established. But our Investigator explained 
the approach we think is fair. We dont provide a valuation when considering these disputes 
but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. To understand whether a 
reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from the motor trade guides. These 
guides are used by the industry for valuing second-hand vehicles, which is the approach 
taken by Aviva here. 
We find these guides persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations.
Our investigator thought the valuation Aviva proposed was fair, based on the range of values 
it provided from the time of Mr Ss loss in November 2021. She obtained a valuation from 
another of the trade guides, which gave a figure that fell within the range of values confirmed 
by Aviva. Ive checked to see what information was used. I can see that she included the 
correct make, model, age, and mileage of the car, using the correct date of loss. 
The valuation we obtained was for £3,232. Aviva obtained trade guide valuations for £3,190, 
£3,295, and £3,375. Our valuation is within this range of values and is less than the 
settlement payment Aviva offered. Based on this I cant say Avivas offer was unfair.
I note Mr Ss comments that his car had recently had an MOT and some new tyres. 
However, this is considered general maintenance and not something that impacts on its 
market value. 
Mr S is unhappy that hes required to pay an excess fee when he wasnt at fault for the 
accident. I cant see that he raised this point in his complaint to Aviva. He should contact the 
business to discuss this. However, from his policy terms its clear Mr S is responsible for 
paying an excess fee in the event of a claim. This is irrespective of whether he is at fault for 
the accident. 
I note Mr S has asked that Aviva refunds the premiums hes paid since the date of the 
accident. Again, I cant see this is something Mr S raised with Aviva. He can discuss this 
with the business in order to pursue this point. If he isnt satisfied with its response he can 
complain and escalate to our service. But I cant consider this point here as Mr S hasnt yet 
complained to Aviva about it.   
In summary, having considered all of this, I think Aviva treated Mr S fairly in offering a 
settlement payment based on the industry trade guides. Because of this I cant reasonably 
require it to pay him a higher amount.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman