DRN-4036261
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given advice by an Appointed Representative of the Tavistock 
Partners Limited to transfer his two Aegon Personal Pensions (PP) into a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP) plan. Mr S believes the advice was unsuitable due to the nature of 
the investments that followed, many of which are now illiquid. He says hes lost out 
financially because of them and, he would like to be put back into the same position as if the 
transfer had not taken place.
What happened
In February 2016, Mr S met with an adviser from Tavistock to discuss his retirement 
planning needs. He held two PPs with Aegon totalling £210,216 along with a final salary 
pension scheme. In April 2016, Tavistock issued a suitability report (SR) to Mr S 
recommending he move the two Aegon plans to a Beaufort Securities SIPP. The SIPP was 
administered by Gaudi. Tavistock recommended Mr S invest in Beauforts Absolute Return 
medium risk Discretionary Fund Manager (DFM) portfolio to match his Balanced attitude to 
risk. The adviser recommended Mr S leave his final salary scheme unchanged.
Mr S signed the Beaufort SIPP application form on 6 May 2016 and on 7 June 2016, the 
plan received £204,313 from the two Aegon policies. In October 2016, Beaufort informed 
Tavistock the Portfolio Manager had been changed. Its understood that it was at that point, 
Tavistock learned the Portfolio Manager had been investing in illiquid investments. In 
December 2016, Mr S was then advised some of the funds within the Beaufort SIPP had 
become illiquid.
In January 2017, Mr S was advised the Financial Conduct Authority had identified a number 
of concerns with Beaufort Securities resulting in them stopping taking further new monies 
from consumers. Consequently, in February 2017, Mr S met with Tavistock to discuss the 
issues at Beaufort. Following that meeting, Tavistock issued a SR advising Mr S to switch 
his SIPP to Novia and invest in the Vanguard Lifestrategy 60% fund.
In March 2017, Mr S signed the application form to switch the Beaufort SIPP to Novia. In 
September 2017, Novia received a total of £117,008 from Beaufort. Around £83,000 of Mr 
Ss monies remained with Beaufort as a consequence of being invested in illiquid assets. 
The illiquid investments were subsequently transferred to The Share Centre.
In June 2021, Mr S complained to Tavistock. He was unhappy because Tavistock had 
advised him to invest in Beauforts model portfolio. He went on to say that Beaufort didnt 
invest his funds appropriately, investing monies into investments that were higher risk than 
the mandate allowed. Those investments subsequently became illiquid and it transpires, 
they now have zero value.
Tavistock issued its final response letter in July 2021, declining Mr Ss complaint. They 
stated they were satisfied the recommendation was suitable for him. They also went on to 
say, in summary:
They didnt believe Mr S was complaining about the original advice to transfer his Aegon 
pensions. However, after reviewing the records from the time, Tavistock concluded they 
were of the view the portfolio their adviser recommended, and also the advice to transfer 
into the Beaufort SIPP, was appropriate. 
They felt the investment decisions taken by Beaufort acting as Mr Ss DFM were their 
decisions, and not that of Tavistock. Tavistock went on to say they couldnt have 
foreseen the investments made by Beaufort would become illiquid. They explained 
Tavistock understood Mr Ss monies would be placed into a wide range of assets and 
geographical locations as opposed to single asset classes.
Tavistock said they undertook due diligence on Beaufort before deciding to invest client 
monies with them. They accepted their DFM fund didnt have a long track record but 
were attracted by their low-cost proposition. They explained their decision to use 
Beaufort at the time of the advice was suitable.
Dissatisfied, Mr S brought his complaint to this service in July 2021.
Tavistock told this service they believed Mr Ss case was without merit and reiterated the 
points they made in their complaint resolution letter.
The complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that Tavistock 
hadnt treated Mr S fairly. He also said, in summary:
That hed looked at Beauforts fund fact sheet to understand what Mr Ss monies 
shouldve been invested in. He felt the fund matched Mr Ss stated ATR and capacity for 
loss.
That this service wasnt able to obtain any evidence of how Mr Ss monies were originally 
invested in 2016. However, he concluded given only such a short space of time had 
elapsed between Mr S investing in June 2016 and the issue being identified in October 
2016, it was more likely than not, the monies were originally invested in investments that 
were illiquid and outside of the stated mandate.
The Investigator concluded Tavistock should have checked Mr Ss funds were allocated 
to the correct asset classes that were aligned to Beauforts fund fact sheet at the outset. 
He also felt that Tavistock shouldve retained records of the checks it undertook.
Tavistock however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. They said they stood by their 
original advice. They also said, in summary, the following:
They explained their adviser recalls checking Mr Ss original asset allocation on 
Beauforts online portal at the time. Tavistock went on to explain the adviser was 
satisfied it looked correct. Tavistock said that just because they dont have evidence of 
the check, it doesnt mean it wasnt completed.
Tavistock also said the fund fact sheet doesnt provide a breakdown of the individual 
funds the manager invests in and as such, a comprehensive cross check couldnt have 
been completed anyway. In addition, the whole point of a DFM is to allow the manager 
the freedom to invest in a range of instruments that he believes is appropriate for the 
fund.
They went on to state that it was not unreasonable to assume the fund was appropriate 
in June 2016 and it was only after this date the fund manager switched into illiquid 
investments. They said they only became aware of just how serious matters were at Beaufort in January 2017 when they received a letter from Beaufort explaining the fact 
they were working with the FCA to resolve a number of control issues.
Tavistock referred the Investigator to a decision this service had made on a similar case 
where a different view had been reached. They said that showed Tavistock shouldnt be 
held to account for Beauforts failings.
Tavisock reiterated its position that investment decisions are those of the fund manager 
and as such, it was Beaufort who is responsible for Mr Ss losses. They said as Beaufort 
committed fraud and misappropriated client monies, it wasnt fair they should be 
accountable for the money Mr S had lost.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view. He felt hed already considered and, 
where appropriate, addressed the points Tavistock had raised and the additional information 
wasnt enough to alter his opinion. 
Tavistock asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to uphold Mr Ss complaint. For completeness, Ive set out the findings I made in full 
below.
My provisional decision
I have considered all the evidence provided and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the respective parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved and no discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here; Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome here.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements:
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Tavistock's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deals with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. 
In addition, the regulators checklist (published in 2009) for pension switching, which 
highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed on: 
 Charges (has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?); 
 Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?); 
 Risk (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded ATR 
and personal circumstances?); 
 Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?) 
The regulators pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013 which included the following: 
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages or 
disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within the new pension. 
 The regulators further alert in April 2014 which included the following; Where a financial 
adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or switch from a current 
pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying 
investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
The regulators guidance above was all issued prior to Tavistock providing advice in 2016.
Before considering whether Beaufort mis-managed Mr Ss monies and Tavistock failed in 
their oversight of them, Ive looked at Tavistocks initial advice to transfer his two Aegon 
plans to the Beaufort SIPP. Whilst I appreciate the focus of Mr Ss complaint as well as 
Tavistock and our Investigators response has been anchored around the actions of the fund 
manager investing outside of the permitted mandate and Tavistocks actions linked to that at 
the time, I believe its important to go back a stage and consider the original pension transfer 
advice. The inquisitorial remit of our service allows me to do this. In addition, I also believe 
its appropriate to do so because in their complaint response to Mr S, Tavistock noted theyd 
also considered the original transfer advice, and they deemed it as being suitable. However, 
after carefully considering Tavistocks pension switch advice, Ive reached a different 
conclusion to them and, I dont think they treated Mr S fairly and failed in their obligations 
under COBs 9. Ill explain why below.
So, when thinking carefully about the guidance the regulator provided, it meant that 
Tavistock needed to obtain relevant information about Mr Ss overall profile and, given that it 
considered a pension switch for him, it was also obliged to address the 2009 checklist 
related to his profile, circumstances and objectives at the time. The switch had to be in his 
best interests. It had to be worth the movement away from the two PPs and it should have 
had meaningful prospects of being better for him than the existing Aegon plans, otherwise 
there would arguably have been no point in switching and no justification in incurring the 
costs associated with the switching process. It follows from this that a comparison should also have been made between Mr Ss Aegon plans and the proposed SIPP in order to 
illustrate whether or not the latter was in his best interest. Tavistocks SR did this, but, I 
believe their analysis actually demonstrated the resulting recommendation questionable.
Tavistock provided Mr S with a SR that set out the main themes of their discussions along 
with their recommendation. His main objectives were noted in the SR, in summary, as: 
Making sure that the funds are somewhere that they are not underperforming and that 
they are being managed on an active basis.
Wanting an investment that would give a steady level of growth in an investment that 
would not be too volatile.
The ability to access his monies on a flexible basis.
Look at a proposition that will lower the cost of the current arrangement.
Having thought about this carefully, Im not convinced the objectives above when considered 
against the wider evidence within the file, are strong enough catalysts to support the 
recommendation to switch away from the two Aegon PPs. Ill explain why.
Costs and performance
The SR explained that Mr S was concerned around cost and if there is a proposition that will 
lower the cost of your current proposition and still give you active management of your funds 
you would be interested in exploring it. Tavistocks own analysis on the impact of charges 
on performance, demonstrated that at the high growth rate of 4.4%, the Aegon plans were 
projected to yield a return of £364,888 at age 65. The Beaufort plan when taking account of 
the new costs, would yield a return over the same period of £307,000 resulting in the 
consumer being worse off by approximately £57,888 at age 65. Consequently, I think 
Tavistocks letter was misleading as it stated Based on a projected performance 
comparison conducted between your existing pension investments and those recommended, 
there is a good indication that you could receive a greater net return, when that clearly 
according to Tavistocks own illustrations at least, showed not to be the case. Whilst I should 
acknowledge the service Mr S was switching to would result in regular reviews with an 
adviser, something he wasnt getting with his existing Aegon plans, it meant his costs were 
more than doubling from 0.72% p.a. to 1.75% p.a. Tavistock stated the new scheme will 
lower your investment and product fees. Whilst the investment management fees may have 
been lower in the Beaufort wrapper, it ignored the wider unavoidable costs that Mr S would 
be faced with such as adviser fees. To make the switch, Tavistock charged Mr S an initial 
fee of £6,306 representing 3% of the transfer amount and then an ongoing adviser charge of 
1%, representing around £2,102 p.a. That meant his new SIPP would need to deliver an 
outperformance over his old Aegon plans just to stand still with the existing two PPs.
The adviser justified the recommendation by stating the new solution provided a higher 
growth opportunity. The two existing Aegon PPs were invested in the Scottish Equitable 
Universal Lifestyle Collection fund. The SR stated the fund had delivered -2.4%, 16.3% and 
27.3% over one, three and five years respectively. A review of the Aegon fund fact sheet 
suggests its suitable for medium risk investors and is invested in both passive and actively 
managed funds with an equity content of 40 to 85% shares. Tavistock recommended 
Beauforts Absolute Return medium risk portfolio with their factsheet suggesting the equity 
content would range from 0% to 60%. As it had been running for less than a year, no 
comparative performance figures were available. With a broadly similar equity content range 
and no past performance figures (and higher overall costs), I fail to see how Tavistock could 
conclude the new Beaufort solution would increase Mr Ss chances of yielding a higher return than his existing Aegon funds. In addition, whilst the Beaufort fund factsheet states 
the Manager can invest up to 60% in equities, it does go on to say a typical equity allocation 
would be in the range of approximately 19%, with the majority of the portfolio invested in 
debt and bonds. As Tavistock will be aware, theres a direct correlation between the level of 
risk a consumer takes versus the potential upside they could expect to see. With a fund 
invested so heavily in Gilts and Corporate bonds, I fail to see how Tavistock determined it 
would provide the potential for greater returns than the existing portfolio which already 
appeared to meet Mr Ss stated ATR of medium. I also fail to understand how they 
determined the transfer would result in Mr Ss assets being more actively managed as it 
seems to me, both the Aegon and Beaufort funds invested in a range of active and passive 
investments, alternatives, fixed interest securities and cash.
Future needs
The SR stated Mr S wanted a pension that offered the option of being able to access his 
monies on a flexible basis as he wished to use the monies to repay some or all of his 
mortgage at around age 65. With around 15 years until retirement, Mr S was still in the 
accumulation phase of pension planning. Just because a consumer wishes to access their 
monies at a future date in a flexible format, isnt sufficient justification for moving their 
monies now. The switch to a suitable drawdown solution couldve been made nearer the 
time if necessary to accommodate Mr Ss needs at that particular point.
In addition, the SR suggests that by moving to the new fund, Mr Ss shortfall need of 
£25,000 p.a. (after the existing DB scheme pension of £25,000 p.a.) at age 65 would be met. 
However, given the anticipated return at age 65 was £307,000, I fail to see how that level of 
fund would yield a sustainable income of £25,000 p.a. to meet the consumers shortfall. 
Whilst Mr Ss State Pension entitlement may have gone some way to absorb a portion of 
that shortfall, given Tavistock failed to obtain a BR19 certificate, nor collect the details of any 
pensions accrued by Mr Ss spouse, I fail to be convinced theyve drawn a safe conclusion. 
Given the switch would result in no meaningful prospect of better performance over the 
existing Aegon plans, that made the Beaufort transfer unsuitable. 
Wider considerations
In their submissions to our Investigator, Tavistock highlighted a separate complaint for 
another consumer which they felt was similar in nature to Mr Ss. They felt that was relevant 
because in that particular case, the Ombudsman reached a different outcome to that of the 
Investigator on Mr Ss complaint despite the issues being similar. Tavistock felt given that 
decision, the same approach should be applied to Mr Ss complaint and the fault for Mr Ss 
failed investments placed with Beaufort. Whilst each case is viewed entirely on its individual 
merits, Ive looked closely at the complaint Tavistock says is the same. In that instance, the 
consumer complained because Beaufort had made a number of investments outside of their 
agreed mandate. The Ombudsman in that case found Beaufort to be at fault rather than 
Tavistock. However, Im satisfied Mr Ss case is different because, in this instance, the 
original advice to transfer was unsuitable and as such, had it not been for Tavistocks advice 
to move his two Aegon PPs Mr S wouldnt have found himself in the situation he was. In the 
other complaint that Tavistock said was the same as Mr Ss case, the original advice to 
transfer the consumers SIPP was not deemed to be unsuitable.
Had Mr S been unhappy with the existing level of risk within his Aegon plan, he couldve 
switched funds. I dont think the adviser properly explored this option because within the SR, 
Tavistock discounted that route because it is not possible to access the recommended 
investment strategy which of course, is not a reason why thats an unsuitable option. Allied 
to this, when the adviser met with Mr S in December following the announcement some of 
his Beaufort funds had become illiquid, Tavistock recommended he switch the liquid funds to a simple Vanguard fund as he wasnt bothered about passive or active management. I think 
that further undermined the original recommendation to switch from the Aegon funds to the 
DFM arrangement because had Mr S not been concerned with having his funds actively 
managed, that wouldve further pointed to his existing plan remaining appropriate for his 
needs.
Ordinarily, I would go on to consider whether or not the underlying investments Beaufort 
made, and the due diligence Tavistock completed was appropriate. In the present case, I am 
satisfied the unsuitability of the SIPP switch is enough to uphold Mr Ss complaint. In simple 
terms, he never should have been advised to switch out of the Aegon plans that appear to 
have been serving him well. 
Summary
Its possible that Mr S was attracted by the idea of transferring and having his monies 
managed in a bespoke style. I dont doubt the flexibility, control and potential for greater 
returns sounded like attractive features. But Tavistock wasnt there just to transact what Mr S 
might have thought he wanted. The Advisers role was to really understand what Mr S 
needed and recommend what was in his best interest. I think Mr S couldve met his 
objectives by not transferring and just altering funds within his existing wrappers if he wished 
to take a slightly different level of risk. He wouldve then benefited from a low cost solution.  
With the reasonable performance track record of the existing Scottish Equitable fund, the 
two Aegon PPs matched the aim of Mr Ss retirement planning objectives. In contrast, the 
recommended SIPP compared less favourably in terms of costs and potential for 
performance. With regard to the latter, there was a lack of logic in Tavistock recommending 
Beauforts Absolute Return fund as a better way to achieve Mr Ss objective but doing so 
without any performance information in support. Furthermore, the comparison was even 
much less favourable when the overall total charges in the new recommendation were taken 
into consideration, which made the SIPP switch even more expensive for Mr S than the PP 
arrangements he had. The new SIPP would have needed to outperform the two PPs just to 
match the future benefits the Aegon plans would have provided; and the prospect of doing 
this would have been hindered by the fact the new SIPP DFM had a ceiling of only 60% 
equity in the Beaufort fund compared to the existing Aegon plans which had a ceiling of 85% 
equities.
Tavistock have said they shouldnt be accountable for the losses Mr S suffered because of 
the actions of Beaufort. However, had the transfer not taken place, he wouldnt have been 
vulnerable to unsuitable investments being made on his behalf. So, I dont think Mr S 
wouldve been susceptible to the investment losses but for Tavistocks unsuitable advice to 
transfer out of the two Aegon schemes. It follows that I think it is fair to hold Tavistock fully 
responsible for the entirety of Mr Ss loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
After reviewing my provisional decision Mr S contacted this service and explained he had 
nothing further to add. However, Tavistock explained they didnt agree with the provisional 
decision. They said in summary, they believed the original pension switch advice provided to 
Mr S was suitable. Tavistock said that meant we could therefore consider the 
appropriateness of the investment element of Mr Ss complaint. Tavistock felt the pension 
switch advice was appropriate for Mr S because it met his four stated needs:
Making sure that the funds are somewhere that they are not underperforming and that 
they are being managed on an active basis.Tavistock said in summary, that a DFM arrangement added an extra layer of active 
management and therefore was a potential reason to transfer.
Wanting an investment that would give a steady level of growth in an investment that 
would not be too volatile.
In summary, Tavistock felt the asset allocation of the DFM recommendation was likely to be 
less volatile than the existing Aegon fund breakdown. In their response, Tavistock agreed 
this could have been met by a fund switch within the existing pension so it didnt represent a 
reason to transfer.
The ability to access his monies on a flexible basis.
Tavistock said in summary, they were in agreement that whilst this does represent a benefit 
to the consumer, it wasnt one that necessitated an immediate switch. They therefore 
classified this as a complimentary benefit.
Look at a proposition that will lower the cost of the current arrangement.
In summary, Tavistock said they felt the provisional decision took a selective approach to 
how costs had been interpreted. They said the SR set out the charges clearly and proved 
the new proposition was cheaper than the existing arrangement. They also didnt believe 
proper consideration had been taken of the value that paying for quality advice could add.
Meeting shortfall in income.
Tavistock explained that whilst this wasnt noted as a primary objective in the SR, they 
conceded there was no evidence to demonstrate the new plan was more likely to meet the 
consumers retirement shortfall than the existing pension and as such, shouldnt be 
considered a reason to transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about Tavistocks subsequent submissions. And, having 
comprehensively reviewed the file again, I fail to be persuaded the pension switch was in Mr 
Ss best interests.
Tavistock have agreed the advice file failed to demonstrate how the new plan was more 
likely to meet the consumers retirement shortfall than the Aegon pensions. Theyve also 
conceded having access to flexible drawdown features, isnt a compelling reason to 
demonstrate a switch whilst the consumer is in the accumulation phase of their retirement 
planning journey. And, in their response, Tavistock also agreed Mr Ss needs could have 
been met by a fund switch.
In their response to my provisional decision, Tavistock felt the asset allocation of the DFM 
recommendation was likely to be less volatile than the existing Aegon fund breakdown. And, 
whilst I dont disagree investing a greater proportion of the consumers funds in gilts and 
fixed interest would lessen the volatility, it would at the same time limit its growth prospects 
too. But, one of Tavistocks foundations for justifying the switch was the potential for better 
performance that a DFM arrangement provided. Tavistock also said in their response, that a DFM arrangement added an extra layer of active management and therefore was a potential 
reason to transfer. However, as Ive already explained in my provisional decision, that 
justification was undermined when less than a year later, Tavistock switched Mr S out of the 
DFM arrangement and into a low-cost passive tracker fund as he was unconcerned about 
active management. Allied to this, Tavistocks own illustrations demonstrated Mr S would be 
better off staying where he was. Particularly given Aegon had a proven performance track 
record and the DFM arrangement didnt, and, by Tavistocks own admission they couldve 
arranged a fund switch for him.
Finally, Tavistock said the SR set out the charges clearly and proved the new proposition 
was cheaper than the existing arrangement. They also didnt believe proper consideration 
had been taken of the value that paying for quality advice could add. I dont believe the 
provisional decision took anything away from the benefit good quality financial advice can 
have on a consumers plans. I acknowledged the service Mr S was switching to would result 
in regular reviews with an adviser, something he wasnt getting with his existing Aegon 
plans. And, Im sure he wouldve found discussing his pensions plans with an adviser as he 
neared retirement helpful. However, I think Tavistocks letter was misleading because it 
stated to the consumer their costs would decrease but the performance would likely improve. 
And, as Ive already explained, their illustrations demonstrated that not to be the case 
because when the full cost of servicing was included, it resulted in the consumer being 
worse off by approximately £57,888 at age 65. In any event, just because the consumer was 
advised of what the charges would be, doesnt then make the recommendation suitable.
In summary, the weight of evidence points towards the switch not being in Mr Ss best 
interests. And as Tavistock has not presented any new arguments that Ive not already 
considered, it therefore follows that I uphold his complaint for the reasons set out above.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had he not switched to a DFM portfolio.
I think Mr S would have remained in his previous investments, however I cannot be certain 
that a value will be obtainable for what the previous funds would have been worth. I am 
satisfied what I have set out below is fair and reasonable, taking this into account and given 
Mr S's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Tavistock do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, Tavistock must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with the notional value if it had 
remained within the same funds. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, 
no compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there 
is a loss and compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Tavistock should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Tavistock is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr S 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If theres a problem closing the Share Centre SIPP, as can happen, it will be necessary 
for Tavistock to cover five years of the SIPPs fees, dependent on whether (or not) Mr S 
chooses to keep it operating. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Tavistock deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Tavistock should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Beaufort 
Absolute 
Return 
Medium 
Risk 
portfolioMixed Notional value 
of previous 
Aegon fundsDate of 
switch to 
DFM  7 
June 2016date of 
switch to 
Novia SIPP 
 March 
20178% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If at the end 
date the investment (or any part(s) of it) is illiquid the actual value of the investment (or its 
illiquid part(s)) should be assumed to be zero. This is provided Mr S agrees to Tavistock 
taking ownership of the investment (or its illiquid part(s)), if it wishes to. If that is not possible 
then Tavistock may request an undertaking from Mr S  to be drawn up at Tavistocks 
expense  that he repays to Tavistock any amount he may receive from the investment (or 
its illiquid part(s)) in future. 
Notional value
This is the value of Mr S's investment had it remained within the original Aegon funds until 
the end date. Tavistock should calculate this value.
Any withdrawal from the Beaufort SIPP should be deducted from the notional value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Tavistock totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the notional value instead of deducting periodically.If Tavistock is unable to calculate a notional value, they will need to determine a fair value 
for Mr S's investment instead, using this benchmark: FTSE UK Private Investors Income 
Total Return Index. The adjustments above also apply to the calculation of a fair value 
using the benchmark, which is then used instead of the notional value in the calculation of 
compensation.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint for the reasons set out above. My decision is that the Tavistock 
Partners Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman