DRN-3901132
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Covea Insurance plc (Covea) when he 
made a claim under his policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr H made a claim under his policy with Covea, after a storm hit his property in February 
2022 and caused damage to the garage. Covea sent a surveyor to assess the damage and 
to determine a likely cause. After receiving information back from its surveyor, Covea 
declined Mr Hs claim. It said the damage wasnt consistent with the damage typically 
caused by a one-off storm event and was more likely a result of gradual wear and tear. 
Mr H complained. He said hed maintained his property to a good standard and that hed 
been advised by the surveyor who attended that the damage would be covered. He also said 
the service hed received from Covea had been generally poor, because it didnt initially 
respond to his claim, and delayed addressing a data subject access request he made. 
Covea responded to Mr Hs complaint, saying it was sorry it didnt register the claim initially 
due to information not pulling through on its systems, and it also apologised for the delay in 
addressing the data subject access request. But it maintained that based on the information 
it had, its decision to decline the claim was correct.
As Mr H didnt agree with Covea, he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the issues and recommended that the complaint be partially upheld. She said 
Covea had provided poor service at the outset and should pay Mr H £100 in compensation 
for the inconvenience caused.
Neither Mr H, nor Covea, agreed with our investigators recommendation, so the complaint 
has now come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and Im partially upholding this complaint. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, as he believes his claim should have been 
paid by Covea  but Ill explain my reasons.
When our service looks at a complaint about a storm claim, there are three questions to 
consider: 
1. Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage is said to have happened?
2. Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage? 
Were likely to uphold a complaint if the answers to all three questions is yes and were 
unlikely to uphold a complaint if the answer to any of the questions is no. Ill deal with each 
of the questions in turn. 
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred? 
Using the resources this service has access to, Ive checked the weather conditions around 
the time the damage occurred in the vicinity of the insured property. And Im persuaded that 
there were storm conditions present. Covea hasnt disputed this. 
Do I agree that the damage claimed for is consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? 
The damage claimed for is the type of damage a storm would usually cause. High winds of 
the force that were present during the storms in February 2022 could cause a wall to 
collapse for example. However, Covea has said that whilst the weather highlighted the 
condition of the structure, the damage in this case was not due to a one-off storm event but 
mainly caused due to ongoing wear and tear and poor construction. So Ive considered this 
further in the next question. 
Do I agree that the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage? 
Covea didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. Its surveyors notes say 
there was evidence of poor construction, as the wall was built with single breeze block only. 
Covea has explained that breeze block soaks up moisture over time and this can result in a 
freeze-thaw action, causing the render on the outside to fail. And the fact the render came 
away in the storm shows that it was affected by wear and tear over time, as render wouldnt 
ordinarily break away due to a storm. Mr Hs policy says, We wont be able to pay a claim 
for any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, wet or dry rot or anything which happens 
slowly over time.
Im satisfied therefore, that the policy makes clear that wear or tear or gradually occurring 
damage isnt covered. So the issue in question is whether the damage that occurred was 
caused mainly by the storm, or whether the storm highlighted an existing issue with the 
construction of the garage. Ive reviewed the photographs that the surveyor provided to 
support his conclusions. I think the commentary given is consistent with what I can see in the 
photos. So I do think its more likely that the damage was a result of gradual deterioration of 
the render over time and the poor construction of the wall, rather than by the one-off storm 
event. That doesnt mean I think the storm couldnt have caused the wall to collapse. Rather, 
that the wall showed signs of wear and tear and poor construction, which would make it 
more likely that it wouldnt be able to withstand storm conditions.
Ive considered the letter from Mr Hs acquaintance who has an engineering background. 
Whilst he comments that he inspected the garage visually in 2021 and found it to be of 
sound construction, this comment was made in relation to the security of the garage and its 
contents, not its ability to withstand a storm. And when he comments on the damage being 
consistent with the storms in February 2022, he doesnt support his opinion with reasons. So 
Ive not found the letter to be as persuasive as the report from the surveyor who attended in 
March 2022 and the insurers subsequent comments and reasoning.
The surveyors report comments on the single breeze block construction of the garage and 
refers the claim back to the insurer due to concerns that the wall was very weak. Im also 
persuaded by what the surveyor said regarding any rebuild of the wall, which he says should 
involve either the single blockwork being laid flat to make the wall wider and stronger, or a 
double leaf wall with cavity ties holding both walls together for adequate strength.So taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Covea hasnt declined the claim unfairly. 
And I wont be requiring it to do anything differently in that respect.
However, I agree with our investigator that the service provided to Mr H shouldve been 
better. Covea took too long to register Mr Hs claim at a time when Mr H wouldve been 
worried about the damage and the cover available for it. The claim was registered over four 
weeks after Mr H says he made Covea aware of it, and Covea also didnt deal in a timely 
manner with the data subject access request Mr H made. 
I also sympathise with what Mr H has said about the surveyors repeated suggestions that 
the claim would be paid. I dont have enough evidence of these conversations taking place, 
but I dont doubt that Mr H has relayed his genuine recollection of the content of those 
conversations. As the surveyor was acting on behalf of the insurer, I consider this a further 
indication that the service provided to Mr H couldve been better from the outset. 
Covea says it wants an opportunity to investigate and respond to Mr Hs dissatisfaction with 
the lack of updates and communication at the start of the claim journey, as these werent 
mentioned in the initial complaint. But Im satisfied Covea has had ample opportunity to 
address these complaint points, as Mr H mentions in his complaint form to this service that 
he had to phone and chase Covea on at least four occasions when he failed to hear back 
within a promised timeframe. This complaint form was sent to Covea in August 2022, so Im 
satisfied it has seen a copy of it. 
As a result of the poor communication, Im persuaded that Mr H has been caused distress 
and inconvenience for which he should be compensated. And I consider the £100 
recommended by our investigator to be fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Covea Insurance plc must now pay Mr H £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Covea Insurance plc to put things 
right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2023.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman