DRN-2960934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy about the way that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) 
has handled the collection of various outstanding debts in their name.
What happened
Between 2005 and 2016, three separate businesses sold two debts they held in the name of 
Mr N and one debt in the name of Mrs N. The debt purchasers then appointed Link to 
manage the accounts on their behalf.
Mr and Mrs N made payments to Link through a debt management plan (DMP). In 2020, 
Mr and Mrs N became unhappy with their DMP provider, so they asked Link to give them 
original credit agreements and statements.   
Mr and Mrs N said that Link initially failed to give them copies of the credit agreements. And 
that when Link did provide copies, they were fraudulent. Mr and Mrs N said the debts were 
unenforceable so Link should stop harassing them for payment. 
Link explained to Mr and Mrs N that it didnt agree that it had made a mistake. It said that as 
it had given Mr and Mrs N copies of the credit agreements, the accounts were enforceable. 
Link agreed to close the accounts in the name of Mr N but not Mrs N. Link didnt agree that it 
had harassed Mr and Mrs N.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs Ns complaint be upheld. She noted that 
Link had closed the accounts in Mr Ns name. The investigator explained to Mrs N that this 
service couldnt declare a credit agreement to be unenforceable. She thought it was 
reasonable of Link to try and collect the debt. 
Mr and Mrs N raised several concerns about the investigators recommendation. They didnt 
accept the credit agreements were genuine and confirmed theyd reported them to Action 
Fraud.  
The investigator said that she couldnt consider whether Mrs Ns credit account had been 
opened fraudulently as this would involve the original creditor not Link. The investigator 
explained that shed only considered the actions of Link and that she thought it had acted 
fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that I have summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by the parties 
involved. I dont intend any discourtesy by this. Instead Ive concentrated on what I consider 
to be the key issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do this.
Its not a matter for this service to decide whether a debt is legally enforceable. That is for 
the courts to decide. But I can still consider whether Link acted unreasonably when pursuing 
the debts from Mr and Mrs N.
As far as I can see, Mr and Mrs N didnt request credit agreements from Link until late 2020. 
Im satisfied that Link followed these requests up and provided copies of what it was given 
by the original creditors. 
Until such time as Link was able to give Mr N copies of one the credit agreements, it 
confirmed that the debt would be unenforceable but that it was still allowed to ask for 
repayment. I cant reasonably find that Link misled Mr N or Mrs N. And I cant say that the 
nature of Links contact with Mr N or Mrs N has been unreasonable or excessive. 
Mr and Mrs N have raised concerns about the credit agreements saying one wasnt dated, 
another was completed by an unknown person and that the signature on one doesnt belong 
to Mrs N. Link decided to close the two accounts in Mr Ns name  meaning its just 
managing a credit card debt in Mrs Ns name. So, I will focus on the account in Mrs Ns 
name.
I appreciate that Mrs N doesnt think its her signature on the credit card agreement.  But as 
the investigator explained  that is something she would need to raise with the original 
creditor. 
The debt in Mrs Ns name was included as part of the DMP. And shes been making regular 
payments for many years. I understand that Mr and Mrs N have made a separate complaint 
about the DMP provider so dont think the fact Mrs N made the payments is relevant. But I 
cant find that Link had reason to believe that Mrs N didnt owe the debt. Or that it should be 
prevented from asking Mrs N to repay the debt.
Im sorry that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr and Mrs N who feel very strongly about 
their complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman