DRN-3194893
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss P says MBNA Limited mis-sold her PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Miss Ps 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Miss Ps representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ps. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Miss Ps 
complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think MBNA made it clear that Miss P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I say this because Miss P applied for the credit card by filling out a form in 
January 2000 and she did not buy PPI at that time. It was in February 2000 that Miss P 
was sold PPI over the phone. As the credit card had already been agreed at that point, 
Miss P cannot have thought that she needed to take out PPI as a condition of having the 
card.
MBNA didnt recommend PPI during its phone sales - so it didnt have to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give Miss P enough clear and timely 
information so she could decide for herself if it was right for her.
Although Miss P says she wasnt eligible for the PPI because she had only been working 
in her job for three months, the policy only states that you have to be working at the point 
that you take it out and doesnt stipulate a minimum period that you have to have been 
working for.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Miss P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss P  for 
example she wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it 
wasnt too dissimilar to what she reasonably thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss P 
would have declined the  cover had MBNA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Miss Ps circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. So I think she 
would have still thought she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Miss P would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently 
close to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Miss Ps representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant MBNA should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ps representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ps individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ps particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means MBNA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold Miss Ps complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman