DRN-3492511
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to refund transactions that she didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mrs S noticed two payments had been taken from her account which she didnt recognise 
and notified Lloyds about them. Mrs S explained that she hadnt made these transactions 
and Lloyds used the Chargeback system to challenge the payments. Lloyds temporarily 
refunded the payments to Mrs S while they investigated.
Chargebacks are part of the payment processors system and can be used to contact the 
merchant and ask for evidence about the transaction. In this case the merchant provided 
evidence that Mrs S had agreed to joining two clubs with an initial trial period that then 
resulted in recurring payments being taken from her account.
Lloyds accepted the evidence from the merchants and advised Mrs S by email that they 
were removing the temporary refund. Mrs S later complained that she didnt see the notice 
about the removal of the credit because she didnt use email. Lloyds explained that Mrs S 
had an email address registered on their systems which is why the notice went out using this 
method. 
Lloyds confirmed they wouldnt refund the original transactions so Mrs S brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into 
by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Mrs 
S explained what had happened and thought the payments were using the internet which 
she didnt use. 
Lloyds provided evidence from the merchants as well as details about the transactions from 
their own systems. Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold Mrs S liable 
for the payments and didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the outcome an 
asked for a further review, which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mrs S liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that she made them or authorised them. 
Lloyds can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mrs S authorised the 
transactions, but Lloyds cannot say that the use of the card details conclusively proves that 
the payments were authorised. 
Unless Lloyds can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mrs Ss account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the Lloydss technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mrs S. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mrs S responsible for the disputed 
transaction or not.
The evidence provided by Lloyds from the merchant who took the payment shows that Mrs S 
had been approached after making a purchase at a partner business. The approach was to 
offer membership of two different clubs and started with a trial period. 
These offers typically require the customer (here Mrs S) to cancel the agreement otherwise 
charges are applied after the trial period has elapsed. Thats what appears to have 
happened here. The merchants stated that theyd contacted Mrs S by phone and obtained 
her agreement to join these two clubs. They took payment using Mrs S card details over the 
phone (rather than the internet which Mrs S believes) and sent out membership details to 
her home address. 
The agreement includes an ability for the merchant to take future payments from the card 
details that were originally used. Once Lloyds received this information from the merchants, 
they believed Mrs S had authorised the transactions and took back the temporary refund.
Its apparent that Mrs S didnt use her email, so the removal of the funds would likely have 
been a surprise to her. But, I dont think the decision by Lloyds to retrieve the refund was an 
unreasonable one as they had evidence that Mrs S had authorised both transactions.
Lloyds system had recorded an email address for Mrs S, which was why it was used to 
communicate with her. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have sent their notice to Mrs S in any 
other way if their system had recorded that email was a way to communicate with her. Once 
Lloyds became aware that Mrs S preferred letters, they advised her how to change her 
preferences. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mrs S was more likely than not responsible for authorising these 
transactions and it was reasonable for Lloyds to hold her responsible for them. I do 
recognise that offers of this type can take customers by surprise with charges made to their 
cards, but here Lloyds were able to sow that Mrs S had agreed to two memberships, so had 
the appropriate authority to process the payments.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman