Complaint
Mr F complains that National Westminster Bank plc acted unreasonably and behaved 
dishonestly when its coin machine didnt work properly. He also complains about 
inappropriate conduct by an employee of National Westminster Bank plc.
Background
Mr F had a current account with NatWest. He visited one of its branches in July 2018 and 
used the coin machine to make a payment into his account. He says he was told he didnt 
need to sort the coins or put them into separate bags before using the machine. But, apart 
from a small number of coins, Mr F had already sorted and counted the coins before using 
the machine.
He says the machine correctly counted the 50p coins but incorrectly counted the 10p and 
20p coins. He immediately raised the matter with NatWest staff but was told that there hadnt 
been any problems with the machine. He says he was made to feel like he was telling lies 
about what happened. 
Mr F says that when NatWest opened the machine he noticed it was dirty. A large number of 
coins were scattered over the inside and floor of the machine. The staff member collected up 
the coins but Mr F says there was still a shortfall. He also says that a female member of staff 
touched his arm inappropriately and he believes this was sexual harassment.
After the coins had been collected Mr F was given two receipts  one for £20.27 and one for 
£30. On the back of the receipt for £30 there was a handwritten note which said £30 stuck 
in bulk coin machine will be refunded Monday. Mr F says hed paid £80.30 into the machine. 
When he checked his statement he noted that there were three credits to his account as 
follows:
21 July        Bulk Coin Error           £30.00
20 July        (sort code of branch)  £30.00
20 July        (sort code of branch)  £20.27 
Mr F says that subsequently NatWest altered his statement and removed the words Bulk 
Coin Error in a dishonest attempt to cover up what had happened.
He complained to NatWest. It investigated his complaint. It accepted that the coin machine 
had made an error. It apologised that staff hadnt been able to help him at the time and that 
the machine was dirty. It agreed there was a shortfall of £0.03 in his account and corrected 
this. It also said it would credit his account with £100 by way of compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience hed experienced. 
DRN-1440802NatWest denied that itd changed the description Bulk Coin Error on the statement. And it 
denied the allegations of sexual harassment. It said it took allegations of this nature seriously 
but none of the staff in the branch could recall the incident and the CCTV tapes for that date 
were no longer available. Because of this it said there was a lack of evidence to support Mr 
Fs claims.
Mr F didnt agree and so he complained to our service. Our investigator said that we couldnt 
consider civil or legal matters such as the complaint about sexual harassment. He said hed 
considered the other complaints Mr F had made but he thought NatWest had acted 
reasonably. He said NatWest had acknowledged its error and had apologised. It had 
corrected the error and paid him £100 which was fair and reasonable. He also didnt agree 
that NatWest had altered the narrative on Mr Fs bank statement which he said still read 
Bulk Coin Error. 
Mr F didnt agree and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. For mainly the same reasons as our 
investigator I wont be upholding this complaint.
Its clear there was an error with the coin machine. NatWest has acknowledged this and has 
corrected the error. NatWest has credited Mr Fs account with the amount he actually paid 
into the machine. But, Mr F says NatWest staff made him feel like he was telling lies when 
he told them the machine wasnt working properly.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. I can see that NatWest staff did open the machine 
after he raised the issue. I can also see he was given two receipts at the time and a 
handwritten note that a further £30 would be credited to his account the following Monday. 
So, even though the amount of money thatd been retrieved from inside the machine was 
less than what Mr F said hed lodged, I think NatWest accepted what hed told it about the 
amount hed tried to pay in.
NatWest says there was no record of any recent problems with the machine and says that 
may be why staff expressed some surprise when Mr F raised the problem. Whilst I can 
understand Mr F may have felt that he was being treated as if he was telling lies, Im 
satisfied that NatWest did credit his account with the amount he said hed paid in. Mr F 
hasnt said there was any argument about the amount to be credited to his account. NatWest 
has also apologised to him for what happened and paid him £100 by way of compensation. I 
think thats fair and reasonable. So, I dont expect it to do anything more.
Mr F says NatWest has dishonestly altered the description that appears on his statement. 
And, he says NatWest may have altered this again subsequent to his complaint. He thinks 
the records should be forensically examined to ascertain if this is the case.
Ive looked at the entries on the statement Mr F provided to us and on the statement 
NatWest has provided. I can see that one of the entries for £30 states Bulk coin error. This 
is the same on both the statements. Neither of the other entries (the £20.27 or the £30 entry) 
was recorded as bulk coin error at the time or subsequently. 
NatWest hasnt denied there was an error with the machine or that it had to add £30 to the 
account because of the error. The £30 error with the machine was also recorded in the 
handwritten note NatWest staff gave to Mr F at the time. So, Im satisfied no further 
examination of the records is required.Mr F has also made allegations about sexual harassment. Sexual harassment claims are 
dealt with in the Equality Act. I agree with our investigator when he said our service couldnt 
look into this part of Mr Fs complaint. We just look at whats fair and reasonable, taking into 
consideration the laws, regulations and circumstances of each case. Only a court can reach 
a final view on whether the Equality Act has been breached. 
So, having considered everything here Im satisfied that NatWest has acknowledged that the 
coin machine wasnt working properly and took action to make sure that the correct amount 
was credited to Mr Fs account. Its also credited his account with £100 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. Im satisfied that NatWest 
has acted fairly and reasonably and I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Irene Martin
Ombudsman