DRN-3137054
The complaint
Mr D complains that Starling Bank (Starling) has unfairly recorded a Credit Industry Fraud 
Awareness System (Cifas) marker against his name. He feels the marker should be 
removed.
What happened
Mr D had a current account with Starling. In May 2020 it contacted him about a payment to 
his account that had been disputed by the sending party. Theyd said theyd paid Mr D for 
gift card codes with a retailer but he hadnt provided them. They said when they tried to 
contact him about this he failed to respond.
Starling asked Mr D for more details about the payment including his relationship to the 
payer, the reason for the payment and why the payer didnt use his genuine name.
Mr D responded and explained he provided investment lessons through a social media 
account and the payment was for the lessons which had been provided. He said the payer 
had used his nickname rather than his full name as thats how all his students knew him.
Starling responded and asked Mr D for evidence of the investment lessons he was 
providing. Mr D didnt respond as he said he had another account hed started using to 
accept payments instead. In June 2020 Starling wrote to Mr D to confirm it was closing his 
account.
In July 2020 Mr D discovered a Cifas marker had been loaded against him and that this was 
impacting his other accounts. He made a complaint to Starling who investigated his 
concerns but said it felt it applied the marker fairly in light of the payment dispute raised 
against Mr D and the lack of evidence to support what hed said.
Mr D didnt accept this and brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. They felt based on the evidence it had Starling had acted reasonably 
in closing Mr Ds account and loading a Cifas marker. As Mr D didnt accept this the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker Starling has filed with Cifas is intended to record when an account has been 
used fraudulently by an account holder. In order to file such a marker, its not required to 
prove beyond reasonable doubt Mr D is guilty of a financial crime, but it must show that there 
are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. Cifas says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
In this case Starling has been able to show me the information it received from the sending 
bank. Its customer, the payer, has disputed the service Mr D has provided to them. The 
payer sent Mr D £50 and the payment reference used was the name of a high street retailer. 
They said they were paying for voucher codes with this retailer but these werent provided by 
Mr D as agreed. When they tried to contact Mr D about this he didnt respond.
Mr D has said he wasnt selling a voucher, he was selling investment lessons. These 
lessons are provided at different levels for either £30, £50 or £70. But when asked by both 
Starling and our service, he hasnt been able to provide any evidence that suggests this is a 
service he provides to people.
And I find this strange, because it doesnt seem to me it would be difficult to show this is 
something he advertises or posts about on his social media accounts. It also seems likely 
there wouldve been some discussion between Mr D and the payer he says was his student 
about what service they were buying, given hes said he offers three different levels. So its 
strange he hasnt been able to provide this either.
I can see Mr D has provided us bank statements from several different accounts showing 
people regularly pay him in amounts of £30, £50 and £70. And whilst I accept this indicates 
hes likely selling something for these amounts, I dont agree it provides evidence that he 
was providing investment lessons to the individual that made a fraud claim against him. And 
given the volume of payments Mr D has received  which suggests hes provided something 
to many people - it again seems strange hes not been able to provide any evidence that this 
is a service he provides.
It also isnt clear why the reference for the payment in dispute is a retailer. This doesnt 
correspond with the service Mr D has said he was providing, although it does correspond 
with the payers fraud claim. Mr D has said he asks people to pay him using random words 
as references so he can cross reference whos paid him and it would be too much to keep 
track of peoples full names, but I dont think this makes sense. 
Very few of the payments hes received contain random words as their reference. And 
generally, individual payments show the name of the account holder the payment comes 
from. And given hes said payments come from people he makes contact with through social 
media, it seems strange Mr D would ask people to use random words rather than their social 
media handles, which Ive noted some people have used as their reference rather than 
random words. Id also add that the payment reference in question here isnt a random word, 
its a well known high street retailer that matches the story the payer has given when 
disputing the payment.
Overall, the details the payer has provided when disputing the payment theyve made to Mr 
D seem persuasive and match the payment reference theyve used. This dispute has come 
from the payers own bank, and I think its reasonable Starling relied on it to start its 
investigation. Im satisfied Starling has given Mr D reasonable opportunity to evidence he 
hasnt acted fraudulently and I dont think the information its requested from him is 
unreasonable. Mr D has been unable to provide any evidence to support his position. 
Taking all of this into account, overall, I think Starling had sufficient evidence for the Cifas 
marker to be recorded and it doesnt need to take any further action.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman