DRN-2186540
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declined his claim made on his 
motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car was caught in a storm and he thought the electrics were affected. Mr S thought 
the windscreen had failed in the storm and let water into the Body Control Unit (BCU) which 
affected the electrics. 
Admiral said the water may have got in due to a poorly fitted windscreen. It then had 
engineers look at the car. But it declined the claim as electric faults werent covered under 
the policy. Mr S said that Admiral was responsible for replacing the windscreen and hence 
had provided faulty goods. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
electrical damage was excluded under the policy. But he also thought this was most likely 
caused by the poorly fitted windscreen. He thought Mr S should pursue the company that 
fitted it, not Admiral. 
Mr S replied that the windscreen repairer had removed and resealed the windscreen without 
independent verification that it had been correctly fitted in the first place. He thought the 
policy should cover accidental damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration with having his claim declined. He had to use taxis and 
public transport for four weeks until his car dried out. I was pleased to see that hes repaired 
the car and its passed its MOT. Mr S said he has ongoing concerns about the safety of his 
car due to the electrical problems. Mr S thought the fault was due to water ingress with 
consequential electrical damage. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
repairs.
Mr S said an attending roadside assistance engineer suggested that the issue may lie with a 
poorly fitted replacement windscreen that had led to water ingress into the BCM. And I can 
see that Admiral later wrote to Mr S agreeing that faulty workmanship had caused the faults.
So, initially, Admiral told Mr S that the problem was caused by a poorly fitted windscreen and 
it said this was a warranty issue. The windscreen repairer examined it, removed and 
resealed it, and said it had been correctly fitted. I can understand Mr Ss frustration that this 
wasnt an independent assessment. But I think its reasonable for Admiral to allow the 
repairer an opportunity to check its work. 
Mr S argued that the damage had been caused by water ingress. So I think Admiral then 
reasonably had an independent assessor look at Mr Ss car. It also relied on the inspection 
made by its approved repairers. 
Both of these agreed that there had been an electrical failure that caused the problems that 
Mr S noticed after the storm. The independent assessor thought this may lie with the BCU. 
He said the windscreen wasnt the cause of the fault. I understand Mr S said the windscreen 
had already been resealed when he came to examine it. But I dont think, based on the 
assessors expert opinion, theres sufficient evidence to say that the windscreen was at fault. 
Mr S thought the electrical failure should be covered as it was consequential damage 
following the storm. I can see the independent assessor suggested a number of reasons for 
why the BCU may have failed. Mr S later told us that the BCU had been corrupted by water 
damage. But I cant see that its been established that the storm itself was the cause of the 
damage to the BCU. There wasnt any evidence of water ingress. And so I dont think Mr Ss 
argument is persuasive. 
Mr S also thought that Admiral should accept the claim as it was due to accidental damage. 
He thought the technician wouldnt have fitted a replacement windscreen poorly intentionally. 
But I think Mr S is confusing an accident with possible poor workmanship. So I dont agree 
that Admiral should accept his claim for this reason. 
I can see that Admiral offered to consider a diagnostic report that showed that the electrical 
damage had been caused by the storm, if Mr S provided one. But I cant see that he did this. 
It also suggested that he should pursue the windscreen repairer if he still thought it was at 
fault.  
So I think Admiral reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available 
before making its decision. It didnt have evidence that the damage to the BCU had been 
caused by water ingress. Admiral said electrical failure wasnt covered under the policy. I 
can see that the policy covers accidental damage, fire and theft. But it has a specific 
exclusion from cover for, 
any loss or damage caused by mechanical, electrical, electronic, computer failures, 
breakdowns or breakages
I think this is a common exclusion in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. I think its sufficiently drawn to policyholders attention in the policy 
documents. The faults that were identified were electrical. And so I think Admiral can 
reasonably rely on the exclusion to decline cover for the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2021.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman