DRN-3601873
The complaint
Miss S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave her two running account credit facilities that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 2 December 2017, Miss S applied for a credit account with Shop Direct trading as 
Littlewoods. She was given an initial credit limit of £750. The credit limit was never 
increased. No transactions were made on this account and it was closed on 4 June 2018. 
On 4 December 2017, Miss S applied for a second credit account with Shop Direct trading 
as Very. She was given an initial credit limit of £750. The credit limit was increased once 
to £1250 in May 2018. Subsequently, the credit limit was reduced from March 2019 
onwards until it reached £390 in April 2020. 
Miss S complained to Shop Direct in March 2021 to say that the accounts shouldnt have 
been opened for her because they werent affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have 
made a better effort to understand her financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. Shop Direct didnt agree. 
So, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 July 2022, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Miss Ss complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Our adjudicators assessment provided a detailed account of all the increases and 
suspensions of credit, and they are summarised above. Neither party has called the 
specifics into question, so, I dont intend to cover them off here. 
The Littlewoods account was never used. I dont think this lending was unreasonable. But 
even had the lending been unreasonable, which is not what I think, then Miss S has suffered 
no detriment as she didnt use it. So, I will say no more about that account.  
Miss Ss complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the 
amount of credit it was able to offer, and considered the credit file and Miss Ss 
management of the account with regard to credit limit increases and decreases. Its possible 
that Shop Direct failed to make adequate checks before providing Miss S with credit. But 
even if thats true, I dont think better enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the 
initial credit limit and the subsequent credit limit increase were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit was modest and the maximum monthly payments 
would have been relatively modest. And Miss Ss told Shop Direct she was employed and 
had a regular income that was not of a modest order. And Miss S told Shop Direct the 
household income at that time was far from modest. And Miss Ss management of this 
account was generally very good until some time after the credit increase in Mat 2018 to 
£1250. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss S to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Miss S was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss S was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I have also noted that when the account was no longer managed well by Miss S, that Shop 
Direct took action to manage the account back onto track; they reduced the credit limit and 
no new orders were permitted whilst the account was in arrears. The account had further 
credit limit reductions and Miss Ss management of the account returned in time to being 
generally very good. So, I think that Shop Directs actions were not unreasonable. 
I know that Miss S will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss S to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 July 2022. NewDay have acknowledged receiving the decision 
and said they have no further submission to make in this case. Miss Ss representatives 
have not acknowledged receiving the decision and, at the time of writing, they have not 
made any further submission or made a request for a time extension to do so. I think that 
Miss S has had sufficient time to make substantive further submissions if she had wished to. 
So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
not upholding Miss Ss complaint, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman