DRN-4051918
The complaint
Mrs S complains about HSBC UK Bank Plc for the following reasons:
Her husband, who she is estranged from, was allowed to transfer out £25,000 from 
their joint account  when shed been told any transfers over £10,000 had to be 
agreed by both parties
Her address had been shared with her husband, who she said was abusive, and he 
turned up at her new property threatening her
She wanted to get her brother added to her sole account as a nominee, was told she 
had to go into branch to do this, but when doing so the branch said they couldnt
She was told online they couldnt email a copy of the terms and conditions of her 
account to her, she had to go to branch for a hard copy  but when she went to 
branch, they said they couldnt give her a hard copy, and emailed her the terms and 
conditions
She didnt ask for a replacement credit card, but the bank blocked it and sent her a 
new one anyway
What happened
Mrs S has a sole account and a joint account with HSBC, as well as a credit card. 
She raised the above concerns with them, and explained she was told about the £10,000 
limit on transfers twice. The first was when she was added to her husbands existing sole 
account  to make it the joint account. And the second time was when she called HSBC to 
tell them about the abuse shed experienced. 
In relation to the address change, she added shed explicitly told HSBC her husband was 
abusive, and it was very important they didnt change the address on the joint account, just 
on her sole account.
HSBC said:
They couldnt find any evidence of Mrs S being told there was a £10,000 limit on 
transfers, and it was in the terms and conditions any joint account holder can use the 
account. HSBC also explained they couldnt get the funds back, and recommended 
Mrs S place a block on the account but shed said she didnt want to do this.
Unfortunately, when Mrs S updated her address, it was updated on her husbands 
profile also. They could see Mrs S had contacted them twice about this, and both 
times they gave her the wrong information.
When Mrs S got in touch on Live chat to add her brother to her sole account as a 
nominee, they should have asked what she meant by nominee to get a clearer 
understanding of her request.
They dont have the facility to send terms and conditions from the contact centre 
Mrs S spoke to, but they should have told her the terms and conditions are available 
on their website.
A mistake was made during one of the Live chats where they accidentally cancelled 
her credit card.
In total, they paid £1,250 into Mrs S sole account to reflect their errors.
Mrs S didnt accept this outcome and asked us to look into things. One of our Investigators 
did so  ultimately, she found HSBC hadnt done anything wrong regarding the £10,000 limit 
on transfers but hadnt handled other matters properly. She felt total compensation of £1,750 
 an increase of £500 on what HSBC had offered  was fair.
HSBC didnt agree with all the points our Investigator made but agreed to offer the additional 
£500 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S didnt agree this was a fair outcome. She said HSBC knows theyre at fault regarding 
the £10,000 limit, and she shouldnt have to bear the consequences of their mistake. She 
said its costing her a lot of money in solicitors costs to get this money back  so she asked 
HSBC to pay her £2,000 to settle the matter.
HSBC didnt agree to this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to express my sympathy for the extremely difficult situation Mrs S has found 
herself in and experienced. I hope shes doing well.
Although I have a lot of sympathy for Mrs S situation, Im required to impartially determine a 
fair outcome on this case based on the evidence provided to me. And, where evidence is 
missing, incomplete or contradictory as some of it is in Mrs S case, Im required to decide 
what I think more likely than not has happened.
£10,000 limit on transfers
Mrs S says she was told on two separate occasions about the £10,000 limit on carrying out 
bank transfers unless both partys consent.
HSBC say there isnt such a limit on transfers, so doesnt think Mrs S was told this.
The two occasions she says she was told this were when she was added to her husbands 
existing account  and on a second occasion when she says she told HSBC about the 
abuse shed recently experienced.
For the first event this took place in branch, and HSBC have said these contacts arent 
recorded. And for the second instance HSBC have been unable to find this call, and 
although our Investigator has asked Mrs S if she has any more information about these calls, 
shes not provided anything. So, as Ive explained above, because no evidence has been 
provided, I need to decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
There isnt anything Ive seen that shows HSBC would apply a £10,000 limit on transfers 
from someones joint account. It doesnt show in any paperwork Ive been provided with, nor 
is it something Ive ever heard of that any bank would do. So, on balance I think its more 
likely than not this isnt information HSBC told Mrs S.That said, Ive considered if Mrs S was correct, whether that would change anything  and I 
dont think it would. I say that because the second occasion Mrs S says she was told about 
the £10,000 limit was around four months before the transfers were actually made. Two 
transfers were made from the account on the same day  both of which were at or over the 
£10,000 limit. So, if Mrs S husband had tried to make these transactions, and they didnt go 
through, it seems likely hed have spoken to HSBC about it and theyd have told him it was 
because they were at or over £10,000. So, hed have just done several transfers of a slightly 
lesser amount anyway. And, as the account wasnt recorded as being in a marital dispute at 
this point, there isnt any reason I can see HSBC would have had to not allow these 
transfers.
I can see HSBC offered Mrs S the option of placing the account in a marital dispute prior to 
these transactions. Shes said this would have blocked her husbands only access to funds. 
This is of course extremely compassionate of her  but as HSBC offered her this option, and 
she declined it, I cant say HSBC havent given her the correct information that may have 
prevented this issue.
So, while I understand Mrs S immense frustration here, I dont uphold this element of her 
complaint.
Address change
Mrs S was clear with HSBC on several occasions that the address on her sole account must 
not be copied over to the joint account held with her husband.
Because HSBC didnt follow this, Mrs S has said her husband came round to her property 
and verbally abused her and her family.
In paying Mrs S £1,250, I think HSBC have accepted they knew the reason she didnt want 
her husband to know her new address.
So, in deciding that, I need to consider whether HSBCs compensation goes far enough to 
put matters right for Mrs S.
The difficulty here though of course, is that whats happened cant be undone. The 
unfortunate reality is that no amount of compensation I can award will take away the 
extremely difficult and stressful situation Mrs S was put in by HSBCs actions.
Mrs S has told us her husband was verbally abusive, she reported the matter to the police, 
and then hasnt heard anything from him since. Im genuinely pleased to hear that.
I uphold this part of Mrs S complaint and Ill consider at the end whether the total 
compensation payment of £1,750 as recommended by our Investigator is fair.
Getting her brother added to her sole account as a nominee
Mrs S says she was told to go to branch to arrange this  but the branch said they couldnt 
do it. 
As I understand it, Mrs S essentially wanted her brother to be able to operate her sole 
account if she needed him to or if she wasnt able to.
HSBC have since accepted they should have clarified what exactly Mrs S wanted  and then 
explained she could apply for a Power of Attorney which would help with these matters. 
So, I uphold this part of her complaint and Ill consider this at the end.Terms and conditions
Mrs S asked the bank for a copy of the terms and conditions of her account  but they gave 
her the wrong information again.
Theyve explained the call centre Mrs S contacted couldnt email the terms and conditions, 
but these were available on their website, and this is what they should have told her.
I also uphold this element and will cover this at the end.
Credit card cancellation
Mrs S has explained her credit card was cancelled and said she wasnt able to use it when 
she didnt have her debit card.
I understand this was, yet again, an error by HSBC although they sent a new card through in 
around a week.
Again, Ill be upholding this.
Summary
Overall Ive not found HSBC made any errors regarding the £10,000 limit on transfers, 
though I dont think Id be requiring a different outcome even if I did. I do think HSBC have 
made quite disappointing errors regarding getting Mrs S brother added to the account, the 
incorrect information it gave about the terms and conditions and cancelling her credit card. 
Theyve also made an extremely serious error in revealing Mrs S address to her abusive 
husband. 
So, its right the award I make is at the higher end of what our service generally awards. 
And, although I know this wont fully put matters right for Mrs S, I do think the £1,750 our 
Investigator recommended is a fair amount to cover all of the issues Im upholding. As HSBC 
have already paid £1,250, then I only require them to pay a further £500.
Im aware Mrs S wanted an additional £2,000 to cover solicitors costs  but thats in relation 
to getting back some of the transferred money  where Ive not found HSBC did anything 
wrong. So, I wont be asking them to pay this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I partially uphold this complaint and require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mrs S a total of £1,750 compensation for this complaint  they 
can deduct the £1,250 already credited to Mrs S account when completing the settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman