DRN-2028107
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with his mobile phone 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr C had insurance for his mobile phone through a bank account. In March 2019 he claimed 
for his broken phone. Assurant accepted the claim and as it couldnt replace the phone with 
the same model it sent Mr C an upgraded replacement phone.
In May 2019 Mr C contacted Assurant and said the phone was faulty as intermittently it 
switched between silent and vibrate. He said hed only used the phone a few days when first 
received. As he didnt like it hed bought a new phone which had broken so he went back to 
using the replacement phone Assurant provided. As the phone was still under warranty 
Assurant asked Mr C to return the phone for testing and repair as necessary. Assurant 
tested the phone but couldnt find any fault. It returned the phone to Mr C.
Mr C complains that Assurant only had the phone for half a day so didnt have the phone 
long enough to see the intermittent fault. He also said Assurant refused to look at his video 
evidence of the phone showing the fault.
Our investigator said Assurant hadnt acted fairly. He thought Assurant should have the 
phone for 48 hours to give time for the fault to appear and repair or replace under the terms 
of the warranty. He also thought Assurant should pay Mr C £75 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said:
it didnt refuse to view Mr C's video evidence of the fault, it wasnt offered the 
evidence. Also, video evidence was hard to validate as it didnt know when it was 
made and it was rare for the IMEI number, which identifies the phone, to be shown
it had done a fifty-nine point quality check including trying to replicate the reported 
fault and no fault was found
it received thousands of phones for repair each day and it was impossible to have 
Mr Cs phone for two days to keep checking the device. Theres no guarantee the 
fault would show in that time anyway
it had acted reasonably and shouldnt have to pay Mr C £75 compensation.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Assurant acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did, Ill explain 
why.
When Assurant settles a claim with a replacement phone it provides a 12 month warranty 
which covers manufacturing or electrical faults. Mr C told Assurant there was a fault with his 
replacement phone and Assurant reasonably asked him to return the phone for testing and 
Assurant followed its testing process.
The fifty-nine point quality checklist includes a test in relation to vibration and Assurant tried 
to replicate the fault reported by Mr C but didnt find any fault. Its not practical or reasonable 
for me to say Assurant must keep the phone for two days and keep checking for a fault. 
I think Assurant could reasonably understand that the fault would show during the testing 
process, even if the fault was intermittent.
Ive seen no evidence that Mr C offered Assurant video evidence of his phone showing the 
fault. If Mr C has got video evidence then he can tell me in response to my provisional 
decision. The video would need to show the phones IMEI number so it was clear Mr Cs 
phone was showing the fault and the date of when the video was taken for me to consider 
requiring Assurant to look at that evidence.
As I think Assurant acted fairly and reasonably theres no basis for me to say it must pay 
Mr C any compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Assurant didnt respond. Mr C didnt agree. He said:
as the fault with the phone was intermittent it would be very hard for him to video the 
problem and not possible to show the phones IMEI at the same time
as the problem was with the sound mode setting he had embarrassing situations at 
work when the setting automatically changed
hed never asked for compensation   £75 was the cost of the phone hed bought to 
replace the one with the fault
he sent us a photo of the unopened parcel containing the phone Assurant returned. 
He didnt think it fair to expect him to accept a faulty phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Mr C had said Assurant refused to look at video evidence of the fault on the phone so 
I wanted to give him the opportunity to provide any video evidence he had. Hes now clarified 
hes not got video evidence and he thinks its too hard to obtain. So theres no issue about 
Assurant refusing to look at his video evidence.
Ultimately Mr Cs comments havent changed my mind that Assurant can reasonably 
understand its quality check would show the fault on Mr Cs phone, even if the fault was 
intermittent. The quality check didnt show a fault. Its still not practical or reasonable for me 
to say Assurant must keep the phone for two days and keep checking for a fault. Assurant 
doesnt need to do any more to find the fault.
I understand Mr C didnt ask for compensation and it was suggested by our investigator. But 
as I still think Assurant acted fairly and reasonably theres no basis for me to say it must pay 
Mr C any compensation or the cost of his replacement phone.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman