DRN-1721600
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) wrongly advised him to take out a risk-
based investment (a Tracker trust within an ISA) in 2001. He said he was unaware of the 
risks posed by this product, which was not suitable given his circumstances.
What happened
BoS rejected his complaint, saying that he had taken the product out on a non-advised 
basis, and the limited paperwork from the time demonstrated this. The staff member had 
merely provided him with factual information about the product.
Mr Ds representative disagreed, saying:
He had no intention of investing money given his outstanding mortgage; he had been 
approached by a bank member of staff who took him into a private room and 
recommended this product, having discussed his circumstances
The fact that s/he failed to write a fact find or suitability letter does not indicate this 
was not an advised sale and Mr D's evidence clearly shows this did not meet the 
regulatory requirement of an execution-only sale
Mr D had no investment experience and did not understand the subsequent letter 
claiming he had taken this out without advice
Given his situation, this product was completely unsuitable.
An investigator at this service did not feel there was sufficient evidence to conclude that this 
had been an advised sale, largely for the reasons BoS had given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint solely concerns the investments suitability, I have only considered whether 
the evidence demonstrates that this was an advised sale.
I accept that the line between purely providing information and appearing to recommend a 
product is not always clear and there have been a number of occasions where I have 
concluded, on the balance of probabilities, that advice was given despite a business 
argument to the contrary. 
But in this case, I dont believe it would be fair or reasonable to reach such a conclusion 
given the very limited evidence available and the considerable amount of time since the sale, 
something which inevitably affects the weight I can give to Mr D's personal recollections. 
While I am not questioning that Mr D genuinely recalled being given advice I dont think this 
evidence alone is sufficient for me to safely conclude this was an advised sale, particularly 
given the cancellation rights letter which clearly stated he chose the product without advice.As I am not persuaded that Nat West did recommend this product, the question of its 
suitability does not arise.
My final decision 
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman