DRN-3168644
The complaint
Mr Ts unhappy with the way We Fight Any Claim Limited (WFAC) dealt with his claim for a 
refund of payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2016, Mr T signed letters of authority allowing WFAC to represent him in claiming a refund 
of any PPI hed been mis-sold.  WFACs enquiries identified PPI with a catalogue shopping 
company Ill call S and a lender Ill call L.  Claims were submitted, which resulted in a refund 
from S and two refunds from L.
Mr T settled WFACs invoices for the successful claim against S and one of the claims 
against L.  But he said hed pursued the second refund from L himself, by contacting the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  so he didnt owe WFAC a fee for this.
Mr T made a complaint to WFAC about raising and pursuing payment of their second invoice 
and about their failure to send him documents about a second claim.  WFAC responded to 
the complaint by explaining that the letter of engagement hed signed covered all claims 
made against L.  And they said theyd sent Mr T all the documents hed asked for  but they 
sent him further copies.   Finally they reduced the amount of Mr Ts outstanding invoice to 
£53.40.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator considered it and 
concluded we couldnt consider all of Mr Ts concerns because some were outside our 
jurisdiction. 
He noted WFAC had responded to Mr T 14 months before hed contacted our service  but 
we can only consider complaints referred within six months of a business sending a final 
response to its customer.  And he noted Mr T was concerned about how his complaint had 
been investigated  but complaints handling isnt a regulated activity so we couldnt look at 
this either.
The investigator identified two complaints he could look at.  Firstly, Mr T complained that 
WFAC hadnt provided information when hed requested it.  Secondly Mr T said WFAC had 
provided him with the wrong reference number for the complaint brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
In respect of these complaints, the investigator noted WFAC had provided evidence that 
theyd sent Mr T the documents hed asked for.  And he said that WFAC werent in a position 
to provide the FOS reference number, because theyd not been involved in bringing a claim 
to FOS.  So he said WFAC didnt need to do anything else to resolve Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T didnt accept the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive seen WFACs first response to Mr T.  Thats dated July 2020.  Nothing Ive seen shows 
any reason why it was not referred to our service until September 2021.  So Im satisfied we 
dont have jurisdiction to consider the issues dealt with in that response.
And Im satisfied we cant look at Mr Ts concerns about the way WFAC handled his 
complaint.  Our rules dont allow us to look at a complaint about everything a business does 
 rather, it must be one of the activities set out in the rules.  Complaints handling isnt one of 
those activities.
So Ive limited my decision to those parts of Mr Ts complaint dealt with in their second final 
response sent to him in October 2021 - and not dealt with previously.
Mr T asked WFAC to provide copies of documents showing hed authorised them to act for 
him.  I can see that WFAC provided him with these in 2018, and again in 2020.  And they 
explained to Mr T in 2020 that their engagement letter engaged them for all his claims, not 
just the first.  So Im satisfied WFAC demonstrated to Mr T they had his authority to pursue 
claims for him.
Ive thought about the second aspect of Mr Ts complaint.  Ive seen that WFAC say they 
didnt provide him with the reference number for his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service because Mr T made that complaint himself.  WFAC have said they tried to check the 
position with the Financial Ombudsman Service.  But it wouldnt deal with them because 
they werent a party to the complaint.  
And Mr T has provided correspondence showing the Financial Ombudsman Service dealt 
with him directly.  So Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair to say Mr T was impacted by WFAC 
not being able to provide him with the correct number.  
Im pleased to see WFAC have reduced their outstanding invoice.  And theyve offered to 
accept payment spread over a period if that would help Mr T.  Id encourage Mr T to talk to 
WFAC about this because I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive not upholding Mr Ts complaint about We Fight Any Claim Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman