DRN-3798547
The complaint
B, a limited company, is unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after it made a claim
on the goods lifted extension to its engineering insurance policy. B is represented by its
broker.
What happened
B had an engineering policy with Aviva which includes an extension covering damage to
property being lifted or lowered. In August 2017 its broker notified Aviva of significant
damage caused when the lift of an item failed. It said this was for notification purposes only.
In March 2018 the broker said the third party was intending to pursue a claim for the
damage. Aviva says it tried to contact B to discuss matters but wasnt able to.
In October 2018 Aviva said in order to protect both its and Bs interests it would instruct
solicitors to go on record and review matters. In correspondence with the broker it said
Aviva believe there is a case to defend, whether on the basis of liability attachment or
quantum.
The broker and B met with the solicitors at the start of November. Following that meeting the
solicitors advised the claim could only be defended on a speculative basis so liability should
be admitted and an early offer to settle made. In relation to the policy (and based on
information from Aviva) it said only the claim for the loss of the [item] is covered and if the
Claimantsecure costs orders against the Insured, these would not be covered under the
policy.
At the end of November the other side made a settlement offer. Solicitors advised if we do
not accept the offer and subsequently fail to beat the offer we will be liable for the
Claimant costs on an indemnity basis together with penalty interest on the damages. Aviva
said in December it agreed with the advice the claim wouldnt succeed. It said if B didnt
accept that advice it would have to withdraw instructions from the solicitors and make
payment for the only element of the claim that was covered (the pre accident value of the
damaged item).
A defence to the claim was nevertheless lodged in mid-January. Discussions then took place
over possible mediation. The solicitors provided an options paper in May 2019. That said
Aviva provided indemnity in relation to the value of the [item] claim; [B] will be liable for the
balance of the claim and any costs orders made against it. It recommended making
settlement offers to the parties. It asked for instructions from B.
Its advice was accepted by B and settlement was agreed later that year (Aviva paid the
agreed pre accident value of the item under the terms of the policy) There were then further
discussions over the third party costs that were being claimed. I understand these were
subsequently paid by B.
It argued Aviva should reimburse it for these. It said it was Avivas decision to defend the
claim and so it should be responsible for the costs incurred. While it understood Aviva might
seek a contribution towards costs relating to uninsured losses it was never made clear B
would be liable for other third party costs. If that had been made clear B would have sought
to settle the claim at the outset. If Aviva had nevertheless sought to defend the claim (which
it thought likely) the costs would have been incurred regardless and Aviva should therefore
take responsibility for them.
Aviva didnt accept that was the case. It said it advised on a number of occasions third party
costs wouldnt be covered by the policy. And it had paid all the costs of the solicitor who
acted in defending the claim despite there being no cover for this under the policy.
Our investigator didnt think Aviva had acted fairly. He didnt think it was made clear to B
Aviva wouldnt cover the third party costs and if had done so it wouldnt have defended the
claim. He felt Aviva was the driving force behind the decision to do so and if B had sought to
settle the claim Aviva would likely still have defended it. It had expressed an intention at the
outset to do so and the claim was ultimately settled on its instructions. He didnt feel it was
fair Aviva could take control of a claim and then pass on the resulting costs to the
policyholder. He recommended Aviva pay 95% of the third party costs (based on the
percentage of the damage claim it was responsible for).
Aviva didnt agree. It said the relevant section of the policy covered damage and not legal
liability. It did agree to get advice from solicitors once the claim had been made but believed
it was made clear costs would be Bs responsibility. It said it was Bs decision to pursue the
claim despite the legal advice from the solicitors and it didnt accept it had control of the
claim. Instructions were being provided by B and it was its decision to settle.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in September. In summary I said:
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Bs policy. I can see the relevant section is the
goods lifted extension to the policy which provides cover in respect of Damage to property
belonging to You or in Your custody or control while being lifted, lowered, handled or
conveyed by Property Insured. I dont think theres any dispute the policy covered the
damage to the item that was dropped and Aviva have paid out that amount.
But theres nothing in this section of the policy or more generally that covers Bs legal
expenses (or third party costs) in pursuing or defending a claim; the policy doesnt provide
legal expenses cover. So I think Aviva acted correctly in saying the legal costs B incurred
arent covered by its policy.
Having said that I appreciate the policy does contain a general condition which allows Aviva
to take over and conduct in Your name the defence or settlement of any claim. You will also
allow Us to prosecute at Our own expense and for Our own benefit any claim for indemnity
or compensation against any other person and You must give Us all information and
assistance required..
I dont think it would be fair in principle of Aviva to utilise that clause to defend a claim and
then expect the insured to pay the costs of a decision it had taken. Alternatively I dont think
it would be fair to expect the insured to pay third party costs if Aviva gave it reason to believe
it would be covering these and that led the insured to take a decision (to defend) it wouldnt
otherwise have made. Ive thought about how that applies in this case.
Was it Avivas decision to defend the claim?
I appreciate Aviva did appoint solicitors and said at that point it believed there is a case to
defend, whether on the basis of liability attachment or quantum. But that was on the basis of
limited information given its efforts to contact B following the initial notification of the claim
had been unsuccessful. And the evidence at that point suggested the claim might be out oftime.
That position changed once solicitors had reviewed matters. Their advice in November 2018
was clear that liability should be accepted and a settlement offer made. Avivas told Bs
broker following that this is a claim that cannot be safely defended, and therefore one to
settle on best terms. Aviva agree that this is not a case which will be successful. It said if B
nevertheless wished to defend the claim it would make payment for the element of the claim
that was covered (the damaged item) and B would need to appoint its own solicitors to deal
with the claim as it saw fit. That doesnt suggest to me Aviva was seeking to defend the
claim once solicitors had provided advice about it.
A defence to the claim was nevertheless lodged in mid-January. But I havent seen anything
to show that was Avivas decision. The correspondence in the lead up to the defence being
lodged was between Bs broker and the solicitors. And it was B which confirmed its
agreement to the draft defence. I think thats consistent with other evidence showing B
wanted to defend the claim. For example the solicitors notes say B didnt want to use its
policy to pay for the damage as it didnt feel it was responsible for what happened.
And when the solicitors advised the broker in November 2018 that liability should be
accepted and settlement offer made they commented I appreciate that the above is not
advice that the Insured will want to hear, or readily accept So I dont think it was Avivas
decision to defend the claim. As Ive said its view by December 2018 was this wasnt a claim
which could be safely defended.
Ive also considered whether Aviva admitted liability on Bs behalf and took the decision to
settle the claim. I agree doing so would suggest it had a greater involvement in the
management of the claim than other evidence might suggest. But again I dont think it did.
Theres correspondence from the third party solicitor in November 2018 which refers to
liability having been admitted but that doesnt appear to have come from Aviva but from
reports of what happened on the date of the incident itself (and what B had allegedly said at
that time). I havent seen other evidence to show Aviva conceded liability on Bs behalf.
Nor have I seen evidence to show the claim was settled on Avivas instructions. Following a
May 2019 meeting and the options paper produced after that by the solicitors I can see they
chased B on a number of occasions to obtain instructions. At the end of June the broker
emailed to say client [B] is happy to proceed as you have outlined.
Bs broker say at a May 2019 meeting they recall B being told that they werent to contact
the third party solicitors or owners of the boat because it would prejudice Avivas position.
They argue that shows Aviva must have been involved with the case. Ive reviewed the
options paper produced following that meeting which doesnt reference this comment. But I
dont think its in dispute Aviva remained involved with the case because of their interest in
the item insured under the policy.
And it's clear Aviva had involvement with the settlement proposals that were eventually put
forward because the solicitor references acting on their authority in relation to the value of
the damaged item. But for the reasons Ive already explained I dont think the decision to
defend the claim was taken by Aviva. And the decision to agree settlement was taken in a
phone call between the solicitors and the broker (acting on instruction from B) in September
2019.
Did Aviva lead B to believe that third party costs would be covered by the policy?
Ive considered whether in making the decision to defend the claim B was (or should have
been) aware that third party costs werent covered. I think the starting point here is the policyterms. As Ive already found they dont include legal expenses cover and theres nothing in
those terms that would suggest these costs would be covered by the policy. So in the
absence of information to the contrary I dont think B (which was represented by a broker)
would have thought these costs would be covered
Ive gone on to review the correspondence between Aviva, B and its broker to see whether
that would have nevertheless led B to believe these costs would be covered. Bs broker has
drawn attention to an email Aviva sent in response to queries it raised about costs. It says it
understood this to mean that Aviva might seek a contribution for those legal costs relating to
items excluded from cover, but not those included under the policy (the damage to the item
itself).
I agree that response could have been clearer. But I dont think its fair to consider that email
in isolation. The solicitors emailed Bs broker in November 2018 (so following the email from
Aviva) and said they had sought advice from Aviva and only the claim for the loss of the
[item] is covered and if the Claimantsecure costs orders against the Insured, these would
not be covered under the policy. I think that makes the position clear and so B should have
been aware of that in its subsequent decision making.
That position was reiterated in further correspondence; the solicitors told B in the options
paper produced in May 2019 Aviva provide indemnity in relation to the value of the vessel
claim; [B] will be liable for the balance of the claim and any costs orders made against it. I
think any confusion about the position from Avivas email in October 2018 was remedied by
what was said in subsequent correspondence. And given B was represented by its broker I
think its reasonable to say if it was nevertheless unsure about the position it could have
clarified matters either by reviewing the policy terms or discussing matters with Aviva prior to
further costs being incurred in defending the claim.
What costs should Aviva reimburse B for?
For the reasons Ive explained I dont think Aviva did lead B to believe third party costs would
be covered by the policy. And I dont think it was Avivas decision to defend the claim. 
However, it was its decision to initially appoint solicitors and at that point Aviva clearly
thought there could be a case to defend. As I explained at the outset I dont think its fair in
principle of Aviva to take steps to defend a claim and then expect the insured to bear the
costs of a decision it had taken.
I appreciate Aviva has paid all the costs of the panel solicitors. But I think Aviva should also
reimburse B for any third party costs that were incurred relating to the item insured under the
policy from when it confirmed it would appoint panel solicitors on 22 October 2018 until 12
December 2018 (when it made clear the claim shouldnt be defended and should be settled
on the best terms).
It's also clear Aviva had an interest in the quantum of the claim; it made clear at the outset it
thought there was a claim to be defended on that basis (as well as liability). And while it said
in December 2018 the claim shouldnt be defended it also made clear it should be settled on
the best terms. I think its reasonable to say that anticipated negotiations with the other side
over the settlement amount.
Once B had accepted (at the end of June 2019) the claim should be settled Aviva was
clearly then involved with those ongoing settlement discussions because the solicitor
referenced acting on its authority in relation to the value of the damaged item. I think its
reasonable to say a proportion of the costs incurred from that date relate to Avivas decision
to protect its own position in relation to the settlement.Given that I think Aviva should also cover third party costs relating to the settlement of the
part of the claim it was responsible for (the damaged item) from 27 June 2019 when a
settlement offer was made until the claim was finally resolved with agreement on costs.
Putting things right
Looking at the claim that was made I think its reasonable to say (as our investigator) did that
Aviva would be responsible for 95% of the third party costs (as thats reflects the split
between insured and uninsured items which were claimed against B).
It will therefore need reimburse B with that proportion of the third party costs B paid from 22
October 2018 until 12 December 2018. And it will also need to reimburse B on the same
basis for third party costs B paid relating to the settlement of the claim from 27 June 2019
until outstanding matters relating to that were resolved which I understand was in June 2020.
If a costs assessment is required in order to establish the amounts to be paid here then
Aviva will also need to arrange and pay for that.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Aviva didnt have any comments on my provisional decision. B did provide further 
comments. It thought Aviva should reimburse 95% of the third party costs it had paid from 
the date of the incident to the conclusion of the claim. It argued that should be done 
because:
It told Aviva about the incident when it happened in line with the policy terms and was 
advised by Aviva there was nothing requiring investigation at that time. Once a potential 
claim was notified it told Aviva about this. After loss adjusters had been appointed it was 
then Avivas decision to appoint solicitors to defend the claim.
The instructions to draw up a defence wasnt taken by it. It believed this must have been 
a decision taken by Aviva. And Aviva didnt withdraw instructions to the solicitors 
following its December email and it didnt instruct the solicitors to act on its behalf. 
It highlighted correspondence from the solicitors from January 2019 which it believed 
showed Aviva continued to be involved in the process and would, for example, need to 
sign off on any mediation with the other side. Aviva also continued to be copied in on 
correspondence about the claim. 
It thought Aviva should therefore be responsible for third party costs from December 
2018 until June 2019. It also said Aviva should be responsible for costs incurred from the 
date of incident as Aviva controlled the whole process via either loss adjusters or 
solicitors it had appointed. It felt it had done all that was asked of it by Aviva. And it said 
the options for settlement section of the policy didnt say it excluded third party costs. 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate the options for settlement section of the policy doesnt specifically say it 
excludes third party costs. I also note the points B has made about its compliance with the 
policy terms. But as Ive explained theres nothing in the policy that provides cover for Bs 
legal expenses (or third party costs) in pursuing or defending a claim. So the policy doesnt 
need to provide a specific exclusion for this because it isnt something it covers at all. 
I set out in my provisional decision circumstances in which it might nevertheless be fair to 
expect Aviva to cover these costs. That included where it had taken the decision to defend a 
claim itself (meaning the costs incurred were the result of a decision it had taken). Or where 
it had wrongly given the inured reason to believe these costs would be covered which led 
them to take a decision to defend a claim they wouldnt otherwise have made. 
I dont see that provides grounds for Aviva to cover third party costs from the date of the 
incident given it hadnt taken any decision on the defence of the claim at that point. I 
appreciate it appointed loss adjusters but theres no dispute the policy covered damage to 
the item that was dropped. So, while Aviva would reasonably need to assess its liability for 
that, I dont think it gave B any indication it would be covering third party legal costs. 
Ive concluded Aviva should be responsible for those costs from October 2018 (when it 
instructed solicitors) until December 2018 (when it said this was a claim that should be 
settled on the best terms). B says the subsequent decision to submit a defence wasnt taken 
by it but by Aviva.  But that isnt consistent with the email Aviva sent to B in December 2018 
which was explicit that this is a claim that cannot be safely defended, and therefore one to 
settle on best terms. 
It isnt entirely clear what then led to a defence to the claim being lodged in mid-January. B 
argues this wasnt its decision but I havent seen anything to show it was Avivas. As Ive 
already explained the correspondence in the lead up to the defence being
lodged was between Bs broker and the solicitors. And it was B which confirmed its
agreement to the draft defence. Thats consistent with other evidence showing B
wanted to defend the claim. And the solicitors have said that while Aviva paid its costs 
instructions in relation to the claim and proceedings came from [B]. 
I appreciate Aviva nevertheless continued to have involvement with the claim after a defence 
was lodged. However, looking at all of the evidence (and in particular the clear view it 
expressed about the need to settle the claim in December 2018) I dont see there are 
grounds on which I could safely conclude it was Avivas decision to defend it. Im also 
mindful of the fact Aviva had already told B via solicitors in November 2018 that only the 
claim for the loss of the [item] is covered and if the Claimantsecure costs orders against 
the Insured, these would not be covered under the policy. I dont see theres a basis on 
which I could require Aviva to cover costs beyond those I set out in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I havent changed my view on the third party costs Aviva 
should be responsible for. 
It will need to reimburse B for 95% of the third party costs B paid from 22 October 2018 until 
12 December 2018. And it will also need to reimburse B on the same basis for third party 
costs B paid relating to the settlement of the claim from 27 June 2019 until outstanding 
matters relating to that were resolved which I understand was in June 2020.
If a costs assessment is required in order to establish the amounts to be paid here then
Aviva will also need to arrange and pay for that.My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited will need to put things right by 
doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
James Park
Ombudsman