DRN-3165538
The complaint
Ms F has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited cancelled her Homecare policy. 
What happened
In March 2020 Ms F bought a Homecare policy with British Gas. Under its conditions it said it 
would arrange a visit to check if Ms Fs boiler was suitable for it to provide cover for. 
In June 2020, following a visit by an engineer, British Gas told Ms F that it couldnt provide 
cover for her. It provided a refund in line with the terms of the policy for these circumstances. 
It discovered that Ms F had bought similar policies in the past which had resulted in those 
policies also being cancelled  so it made a note on its record not to agree to further set ups  
or reinstatements of a homecare policy. 
In November 2020 British Gas agreed to carry out further remedial work including a second 
power flush. But a day later the heating in Ms Fs home failed so further work was done. This 
work was outside of the terms of a Homecare policy  but British Gas didnt charge Ms F for 
the further work. 
Unhappy with British Gas, Ms F asked us to look at her complaint. She said it hadnt 
provided any evidence a second power flush had been done to try and remedy the problem 
with the boiler. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He explained that in 
relation to Ms Fs complaint about the engineers works, British Gas had provided Ms F with 
details of the appropriate complaints resolution body to refer this to. 
British Gas paid Ms F £150 as a goodwill gesture for setting up policies in the past and 
cancelling them  even though it was entitled to do this in line with the conditions of the 
policies  due to the age and condition of Ms Fs boiler. It also refunded the costs of the 
invoice for the second power flush as it accepted that the advice the engineer gave didnt fix 
the problem. Our investigator thought British Gas had done enough to resolve Ms Fs 
complaint.
Ms F didnt agree. Shes unhappy we havent taken her complaint about the power flush into 
account - and that British Gas allowed her to set up policies on several occasions only to 
cancel them. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Fs boiler is over 40 years old and many of its parts are obsolete. British Gas homecare 
policy says it will replace a boiler if they cant repair it provided its either less than seven 
years old or between seven and ten years old and fitted by a British Gas approved installer. 
Notes provided by British Gas show that since 2013 it told Ms F that it wouldnt be able to 
provide cover for her boiler  but the pattern of Ms F setting up a new policy and having the 
policy cancelled for the same or similar reasons was repeated several times since  until 
British Gas made a note not to allow further agreements or reinstatements in 2020.
I think British Gas could have managed the situation better to prevent the allowance of 
policies to be set up and then cancelled after an engineer inspected Ms Fs boiler each time. 
When things go wrong, we look at what the impact was and what a business did to put 
things right. I think what British Gas did here to put things right was fair and reasonable. It 
refunded the premium Ms F paid each time  and it paid her £150 compensation for not 
managing her expectations better. It refunded the costs of the invoice to carry out a power 
flush. 
I understand Ms F is disappointed we havent looked at her complaint about the power flush 
work. She says British Gas hasnt provided her with evidence these works were carried out. 
But as the investigator explained, this isnt a complaint we can look at for her. In January 
2021 British Gas provided Ms F with details of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Service for 
utilities which Ms F would need to refer this particular complaint to  and within the 
timeframe provided. 
I realise Ms F will be unhappy with my decision. But taking into account the complaints we 
can decide upon, I think British Gas has done enough to put things right and therefore acted 
reasonably in resolving her complaint. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman