DRN-2042629
 
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim 
he made on his car insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020 explaining that I was intending 
to partially uphold it. Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
What happened 
Mr S insured his car through Advantage. His policy included third party cover for 
driving other cars (DOC), subject to various conditions.
In September 2019 Mr S wife was heavily pregnant and started experiencing pain 
while driving. Mr S decided to take over driving, believing he was covered to do so 
under his insurance policy. Mr S was involved in a collision whilst driving his wifes 
car, so he made a claim on the DOC cover included in his Advantage policy.
Advantage initially confirmed to Mr S that he would be covered for the damage to the 
third-party car, on several occasions. But it later told Mr S he wasnt covered for 
driving a car belonging to, or hired by, his partner. Based on this, Advantage declined 
Mr Ss claim. But it paid Mr S £150 compensation for the incorrect advice it gave and 
the impact this had.
Mr S disputed Advantages decision. He said he feels the circumstances were 
enough of an emergency to warrant him taking over driving the car and that the 
service he received was extremely poor. He asked Advantage to show compassion.
When Advantage didnt change its position, Mr S brought his complaint to our service 
where it was looked at by one of our investigators. He didnt think Advantage had 
acted fairly. He said the exclusion Advantage was seeking to rely on wasnt made 
clear enough to Mr S when he took out or renewed his policy. He said it was a 
significant exclusion so more should have been done to bring it to Mr S attention. 
Because it wasnt, he felt Advantage should pay the third-party claim costs and pay 
Mr S £250 compensation for the distress it had caused him.
Advantage didnt agree. It said the term is in the policy booklet and the schedule 
states that other conditions apply. It said the section of the policy booklet that 
explains DOC cover also highlights where in the booklet the full exclusions are listed.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since bringing his complaint to our service, Mr S received a letter from Advantage 
stating his claim would be covered. This letter was sent in error. Im not considering 
the impact of this error in this decision as it isnt part of the complaint which was 
initially brought to our service. I also understand Mr S has raised a separate 
complaint about this. 
In terms of this complaint, it isnt dispute that the DOC section of Mr Ss policy 
contains an exclusion for driving his partners car. The issue I need to decide is 
whether Advantage can fairly rely on that exclusion to decline Mr Ss claim in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
An exclusion for driving a car belonging to the policy holder or their partner isnt a 
particularly unusual exclusion in motor insurance. But it is a significant exclusion and, 
as such, it should have been sufficiently highlighted to Mr S in a way which is clear, 
fair and not mis-leading.
Good industry practice is to provide a summary of the key conditions and exclusions 
of an insurance policy at the point of sale and at each renewal. In this case 
Advantage included a summary of cover on its certificate of insurance. This includes 
a summary of the DOC cover. It states:
Driving other cars:
You're also covered to drive someone else's car if:
 You have the owners permission
 It's not owned by you or under a hire purchase or lease agreement
 It's covered by another insurance policy.
Other conditions apply  please see your car policy document for details.*
Mr Ss policy document summarises DOC cover on page seven. It states:
Guide to your cover
Am I covered to drive other cars?
Your Certificate of Motor Insurance will show whether you have this benefit. If 
driving other cars is shown on your Certificate of Motor Insurance, your 
Insurer will cover you for damage caused to Third Parties while youre driving 
cars that are not owned or hired to you.
This cover for driving other cars doesnt include damage to the car youre 
driving or the cost of releasing a vehicle that has been impounded by the 
police or any other public or government authority. There must be a valid 
insurance policy in force for the other car youre driving. See section 3 for full 
details.
Section 3 of the policy is shown on page 17 of the policy document. It lists the 
various circumstances that Mr S wouldnt be covered for DOC. It says:
Driving other cars
Your Insurer will provide this cover, under section 3, if you are driving another 
private car as
long as:
 Your Certificate of Motor Insurance shows that cover is included
 The other car is not a hire, courtesy or rental car, is not owned by you or 
your Partner nor obtained by you or your Partner under a hire purchase or 
lease agreement
Ive carefully considered the arguments put forward by both sides. I accept that the 
certificate of insurance mentions further conditions apply, and that page 7 of the 
policy booklet directs the policyholder to section 3. But in my view, I dont think this 
goes far enough to make such a significant exclusion clear enough. This is because 
it requires the policyholder to cross reference information across several different 
sections and documents. 
In my view, this exclusion is significant enough that it ought to have been made 
clearer than it was. However, this alone isnt enough for me to decide that Advantage 
should cover Mr S claim. In order to fairly reach that conclusion, Id need to be 
satisfied that Mr S would have acted differently on the day of the accident had the 
exclusion been made clear enough. And based on everything Ive seen, I dont think 
he would have done. Ill explain why.
In Mr S complaint letter to Advantage, hes said that aside from being covered to 
drive other cars under his DOC cover, he was aware of a term across motor 
insurance which allows for any holder of a full driving licence to drive a car they arent 
insured to drive in an emergency. Mr S also repeated this to one of our investigators 
more recently when asked what he would have done differently if hed known about 
the exclusion. 
To my knowledge, there is no such term across motor insurance  and certainly not 
in Mr S policy. It is against the law to drive a car without insurance in the UK, and 
there is no requirement for insurers to accept claims for accidents caused by 
uninsured drivers in emergency situations. These emergency situations are generally 
what DOC cover is designed for.
I do accept that Mr S believed he was covered to drive his wifes car under the DOC 
cover, and that this is due to Advantage not making the exclusion clear enough. But 
even if Advantage had made the exclusion clear enough, I think Mr S would still have 
taken over driving of the day of the accident because of his mis-held belief that he 
would be covered in an emergency situation. 
I dont think Mr S would have acted differently, on the day of the accident, if he knew 
about the exclusion. This means that even if Advantage had made the exclusion 
clear enough, Mr S most likely would still have been driving the car  without 
appropriate cover  when the accident occurred. So, in the particular circumstances 
of Mr S complaint, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Advantage to 
cover the claim.
In addition to the above, Ive also considered the level of distress and inconvenience 
Advantage has caused Mr S. From what Ive seen Advantage had several 
opportunities to inform Mr S that he wasnt covered for driving his wifes car  but it 
failed to do so. This meant Mr S was left with the incorrect impression he would be 
covered for the damage to third party car for several months. 
I can see Advantage has acknowledged these issues and paid Mr S £150 to 
apologise. But in my view, this amount doesnt go far enough to recognise the 
distress and disappointment Mr S has suffered. So, in order to fairly resolve this 
complaint, think Advantage should pay Mr S a total of £250.
I asked both sides to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.Advantage didnt have anything further it wanted to add. But Mr S provided further 
comments to explain why he didnt agree with my provisional findings.
Mr S said that in coming to the conclusion that he would have driven the car, even if the 
exclusion had been made clearer, I had misinterpreted what he had told us. He explained 
that the only developed the belief that he would be covered for driving his wifes car in an 
emergency situation after Advantage told him it was declining his claim. He said this 
prompted him to investigate online, and it was at this point he developed that belief.
Mr S explained that he only drove the car on the day of the accident because he believed he 
was covered under the DOC cover. He suggested I listen to the calls between him and 
Advantage when he raised the claim  which he said would support this. Mr S explained that 
had the exclusion been made clearer, he would not have driven his wifes car on the day of 
the accident. 
I listened to the calls Mr S suggested which did seem to support Mr S argument. He didnt 
once mention a belief that he should be covered because of emergency circumstances. He 
focused only on the fact he believed he had cover to drive other cars under his policy.
Having listened to these calls and reconsidered the arguments, I was minded to change my 
provisional findings and to uphold Mr S complaint in full. I wrote to Advantage and Mr S to 
explain this, and to offer them both a further opportunity to provide any additional comments 
or evidence before I reached a final decision. Neither side said they had anything further 
they wished to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the new comments and evidence sent in response to my 
provisional decision.
I remain of the view that the exclusion for driving a car belonging to ones partner was 
significant enough that it ought to have been made clearer than it was. And having 
reconsidered the evidence and arguments put forward, including the calls between 
Advantage and Mr S, I now think that if it had been its more likely than not that Mr S 
wouldnt have driven the car on the day of the accident. 
I say this because I think there are many variables which likely would have prevented Mr S 
from driving the car. For example, he and his wife may have decided not to take his wifes 
car out in the first place, given how heavily pregnant his wife was at the time. Alternatively, 
they may have parked the car and used a taxi or called a family member for assistance once 
his wife started to experience discomfort  which is what Mr S has suggested they would 
have done if he had known he wasnt covered.
So, I dont think Advantage made the exclusion clear enough, and I think Mr S has lost out 
as a result. Based on this, I dont think Advantage can fairly rely on the exclusion to decline 
Mr S claim.
When thinking about how Advantage should put things right for Mr S, Ive considered what it 
needs to do to place him back in the position he would have been in (as far as possible) had 
Advantages policy been clear enough about the exclusion.Ive thought about whether Advantage should cover the cost of damage to Mr S wifes car, 
in addition to the third-party car, despite the fact that the DOC cover provided by his policy is 
third party only. This is because had Mr S taken his own car on the day of the accident, he 
would have been covered for damage to both the third-party car and his own. But in this 
case, Mr S hasnt argued specifically that he would have taken his own car if he knew about 
the exclusion. 
Mr S has also explained that the damage to his wifes car was minimal and only cost around 
£100. Mr S has also told one of our investigators that he doesnt retain evidence of the 
repairs carried out or the cost of those repairs. So, taking all these circumstances into 
account, I dont think it would be fair to expect Advantage to cover the damage to Mr S 
wifes car. But it should cover the claim for damage to the third-party car in full, subject to a 
deduction of Mr S policy excess.
In terms of the amount of compensation I recommended in my provisional decision, neither 
side provided any further comments or arguments. So, Ive reached the same conclusions 
on this point, for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must:
Settle the claim for the third-party car, subject to a deduction of Mr S policy excess
Pay Mr S a total of £250 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold Mr S complaint.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman