DRN-2967047
The complaint
Mr C complains about how One Insurance Limited investigated and settled a claim made on 
his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in an accident with another driver at a roundabout. He reported this to 
One Insurance and told it that dashcam footage was available from the other driver. But One 
Insurance didnt request this footage until five months later. It didnt follow up this request for 
a further four months and by this time the footage wasnt available. 
So One Insurance settled the claim as 50/50 split liability as it didnt think it would be able to 
defend Mr C if the matter went to court. One Insurance paid Mr C a total of £300 
compensation for initially not requesting the dashcam footage and then for not following this 
up. But Mr C was unhappy with how One Insurance had settled the claim. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought One 
Insurances failing to request the dashcam footage had prejudiced Mr Cs position. He 
thought it should record the claim as bonus allowed (non fault), reinstate Mr Cs No Claims 
Discount (NCD), refund his policy excess and any additional premiums he has paid, with 
interest, and provide him with a letter saying that the claim was recorded as non fault. But he 
thought One Insurances payment of £300 compensation was fair and reasonable for the 
service failings. 
One Insurance replied that it thought the dashcam footage had never been available and so 
could not have been obtained. It thought the split liability offer was the best possible 
outcome.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr C the same as someone else in his position. 
One Insurance is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr C to take over, 
defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr C has to follow its advice in connection with the 
settlement of his claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in 
motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. And, on this occasion, I think One Insurance 
hasnt reasonably investigated Mr Cs claim before settling it as 50/50 split liability. Ill now 
explain why I think this. 
Mr C said the accident occurred on a roundabout when the other driver mounted the 
roundabout and collided with him. When Mr C first reported the accident to One Insurance, 
he told it that the other driver had said there was dashcam footage available. The other 
vehicle was an emergency vehicle and I think its standard for such vehicles to record 
journeys by dashcam. 
I think One Insurance should have requested the footage when Mr C first reported the 
accident. Instead, it accepted full liability for the claim. Mr C protested and repeated that 
dashcam footage was available. Four months later, One Insurance agreed that it hadnt fully 
investigated the claim. It said it would chase the other insurer for the footage before deciding 
liability.  
A further three months later, after Mr C had again complained about delays, One Insurance 
agreed that it should have chased the other insurer more often. It then found that its 
requests and allegations hadnt reached the other insurer. And after these had been re-sent, 
the other insurer said that the footage wasnt available. 
One Insurance said that when it eventually had a response to its request for the footage from 
the other insurer, it said "our client does not have any footage from the incident". But this 
was ten months after the accident, and it doesnt mean that footage wouldnt have been 
available at the time if it had been requested. As Ive said above, the other vehicle was an 
emergency vehicle and I think dashcam recording is standard. So I think its likely the 
dashcam footage would have been available, had One Insurance requested this in a timely 
manner from the other insurer.
So, I think One Insurance didnt make reasonable attempts to progress Mr Cs claim or to 
follow-up on the dashcam footage in a timely manner. I think the dashcam footage would 
have been material to Mr Cs defence. And I think, on balance, that its very likely that it may 
have led to a different settlement outcome.
So, I think One Insurances inadequate investigation of Mr Cs claim and its failure to request 
the dashcam footage has unfairly disadvantaged Mr C and so prejudiced his claim. I think 
One Insurance should now put things right for Mr C as if the claim had been settled in his 
favour. 
Mr C had to pay his policy excess when his van was repaired, and his premiums have 
increased at renewal. I think he wouldnt have incurred these costs if One Insurance had 
investigated the claim adequately. And so I think it should reimburse these costs, with 
interest as Mr C has been without his money for some time. 
One Insurance has already paid Mr C £300 compensation for its poor investigation and 
delays. I think thats fair and reasonable compensation for his distress and inconvenience as 
its in keeping with what Id award in similar circumstances.
 Putting things right
I require One Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Record the claim on any internal and external databases as bonus allowed (non-fault) 
and update Mr Cs policy to show he hasnt made a fault claim (including reinstating any 
applicable NCD).
2. Refund any policy excess paid by Mr C following the claim together with 8% simple 
interest per annum from when this was paid to the date of settlement. 
3. Refund any additional premiums Mr C may have been charged as a result of this incident 
being recorded as fault plus 8% simple interest from the date the premiums were paid 
to the date of settlement. 
4. If Mr C chose to renew his insurance elsewhere, One Insurance should supply Mr C with a letter confirming the incident has now been recorded a bonus allowed (non-fault) so 
he can request a refund of premium with his new insurer.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires One Insurance to take off tax from this interest. One 
Insurance must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One 
Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman