DRN-3325780
The complaint
Mr S complained that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk acted irresponsibly 
when lending to him. 
What happened
Savvy provided Mr S with a loan as follows:
Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountTotal Amount 
RepayableMonthly 
Repayment
15/08/2018 Outstanding 15 £1,250.00 £2,474.40 £154.65
When Mr S first complained to Savvy, it didnt uphold his complaint, so he brought his 
complaint to this Service.  
Mr S mainly said that if Savvy had done proper checks it wouldve realised that the loan 
wouldnt be affordable for him and so it shouldnt have been provided. He also told us that 
Savvy obtained a county court judgement (CCJ) against him as he wasn't able to make the 
repayments. He told us that having a CCJ has made things very difficult for him and hes 
now living with mental health issues and financial problems. To resolve this complaint Mr S 
would like relief from the financial pressure of this loan and Savvys help to remove the CCJ 
from his credit file.
Our adjudicator thought that proportionate checks would most likely have shown that Mr S 
was already having problems managing his money as it wouldve become aware that he had 
opened several new loans during the three days running up to him taking this loan. So our 
adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint and set out the steps he thought Savvy should take to 
put things right. Our adjudicator didnt make any mention of the CCJ. 
Savvy disagreed with our adjudicators view. In summary, Savvy said:
the several other recent loans referred to by our adjudicator that had been opened 
just a few days before Mr Ss application to Savvy were not visible on his credit file at 
that time, so it was unable to consider this information as part of his application
Savvy asked Mr S about any loans which might not be reflected on his credit file and 
he had mentioned only one 
Savvy cannot be held liable for any credit taken after it issued this loan or for any 
information not displaying on a credit file if Mr S took out other credit with other 
lenders within the same month 
Savvy completed thorough checks and does not agree that it provided this loan 
irresponsibly. 
Savvy asked for an ombudsman review. The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Savvy needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Savvy should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Savvy was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make 
their repayments without borrowing further. Taking all this into account, Ive carefully 
considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided and thought about what 
this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Thinking first about the CCJ, this means a court has decided the outstanding debt needs to 
be repaid. Whilst I understand that Mr S wants the CCJ removed from his credit file, I think 
its important for me to start by saying that this Service cant direct the court to set aside 
(undo) its judgement  and we have no power to do that ourselves. Thats because only the 
court can set aside a decision it made and Mr S could have taken steps himself to challenge 
the judgement. If thats something he would like to find out more about now he may be able 
to obtain free legal advice from Citizens Advice or a local law centre. But I've seen nothing to suggest that the court would have considered Mr Ss irresponsible 
lending complaint. I say this because Savvy hasnt sent me anything concerning the court 
judgement, such as a copy of the court order and the specifics of the claim and any 
counterclaim. And I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr S knew at the time that 
he was able to raise this complaint as part of the debt recovery proceedings. As Mr S didnt 
complain to Savvy about the loan until around two years after the date of the court 
judgement, I think its most likely that he hadnt realised he could complain about the loan 
having been irresponsibly provided before then, even though he first ran into payment 
problems in 2018 and the loan was defaulted in January 2019.
So, unless Savvy sends me anything to make me think again about this, like our adjudicator, 
I think its fair for me to consider this complaint. 
Savvy told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked him to provide details 
of his income and to tell Savvy what he normally spent each month. Savvy conducted an 
automated income verification to check what hed said about how much he earned and also 
carried out checks on Mr Ss credit file. And I've taken into account that Savvy also asked 
Mr S about information that might be missing from its credit checks. 
Based on what Mr S had told Savvy about his living arrangements and his financial situation, 
Savvy understood that he had ample disposable income each month and only limited 
responsibility for usual household costs. Its affordability assessment was based on Mr S 
having monthly income of £1,150 from his main job and it was aware he also had a 
secondary income of around £460 per month. Savvy understood that his total monthly 
expenditure was around £475, including his existing debt repayments and worked out that 
this gave Mr S an available monthly surplus of approximately £675. So Savvy was satisfied 
that, after paying the contractual payments for this loan, Mr S would still have more than 
£500 spare cash left, making the loan affordable for him.  
 
But Savvy expected Mr S would be paying the loan for the next 15 months. I think this was a 
long enough loan term to go beyond what would be a reasonably foreseeable period to 
expect complete stability in his finances. So, irrespective of the fact that Savvy thought it 
looked like Mr S was currently able to afford this loan, I think Savvy ought to have gone 
further in its affordability checks before agreeing to lend. I think Savvy should have taken 
steps to verify what Mr S was saying about his financial circumstances. Savvy hasnt shown 
me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to 
lend to Mr S. 
Mr S has provided his bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what Savvy was 
likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a useful insight 
into Mr Ss finances at the time. And had Savvy looked in more depth at Mr Ss finances it 
would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing his money. I can see 
on his 2018 bank statement that he borrowed £800 on 12 August, £1000 on 13 August and 
on 14 August he took out two loans for £54 and £1000  all from other providers of 
expensive short-term and high cost credit. 
I think its fair to say that very recent borrowing taken out by Mr S might not have shown on a 
credit report done at the time. But that was a further reason for carrying out more in-depth 
checks before agreeing to lend this loan when a proportionate check required Savvy to 
probe more deeply into Mr Ss financial situation to check what hed told it  or omitted to 
say. And had Savvy done what I consider wouldve been a proportionate check, given what 
I've seen on his bank statements, I think it should have concluded that Mr Ss use of this sort 
of expensive credit was a clear sign that he was already facing significant financial difficulty 
and this meant it was unlikely that he would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. This all leads me to conclude that it was unreasonable for Savvy to provide this 
loan. 
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account everything that Savvy has said in support 
of its view. And Im mindful also that its affordability checks resulted in Savvy providing a 
smaller loan to Mr S than the amount he had originally requested. But this doesnt mean that 
the loan it did provide was sustainably affordable for Mr S and whilst I accept that Savvy 
takes a different view to me, nothing it has said changes my view. 
For these reasons, as things stand, Im planning on upholding the complaint and telling 
Savvy to take action to put things right.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr S has responded to say that hes unhappy that the CCJ remains in his record.
I have heard nothing further from Savvy and the deadline for responses has now passed so 
I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. 
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
I completely understand why Mr S would like to see the CCJ removed from his credit file. But 
Savvy didnt put this information on his credit file so I cant tell Savvy to remove it. 
Mr S might think about contacting the court to see if he could apply to have the judgement 
set aside or otherwise, he could seek independent legal advice about this  as mentioned in 
my provisional decision, he may be able to obtain free legal advice from Citizens Advice or a 
local law centre. 
I dont know if Mr S is aware that he has the right to add his own short explanatory note on 
his credit file (up to 200 words). This is called a notice of correction. Prospective creditors 
should take the information into account if he applies for credit. Mr S can contact the credit 
refence agencies directly to do this or to find out more. 
And of course, the record will automatically no longer appear on his credit file after six years.
I hope this is useful to know. And given that Ive not received any further evidence or 
comment that changes my mind about this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Savvy should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr S, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly 
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible. Or, 
he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or indeed a 
different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). 
But even if he had done that, the information that would have been available to such a 
lender and how they would (or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not 
have been the same is now impossible to reconstruct accurately. From what Ive seen in this 
case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new 
lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Savvys liability in this case for what Im satisfied 
it has done wrong and should put right.
If Savvy has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps.Otherwise, Savvy will need to liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined below and do the following:
A) remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the loan and treat any 
repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this 
results in Mr S having made overpayments then Savvy should refund these overpayments to 
Mr S along with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in A should be used 
to repay this. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. Savvy 
should be aware that it is up to Mr S to decide whether to use any payment due to him to 
reduce the court debt or keep the redress in full so he can use it for other purposes he may 
wish to prioritise over this debt. Savvy shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal already written-off. 
C) If there is still an outstanding balance then Savvy should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S bearing in mind its obligation to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in any discussions if he still needs further time to pay. 
D) Whilst its fair that Mr Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of his payment history, its 
unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded about a loan 
that was unfairly provided. So Savvy should remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mr Ss credit file about his payment record in relation to the loan. I am not directing Savvy to 
remove adverse information connected to the CCJ because its an accurate reflection of the 
judgement and a matter of public information, not something that Savvy has reported to 
credit reference agencies. So it wouldnt be fair to ask Savvy to do this. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest. Savvy must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk to take 
the steps I've set out above to put things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman