DRN-1384596
 
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Quickly Finance Limited (Quickly Finance) are charging a success 
fee for a claim she didnt give them authority to deal with.
What happened
Quickly Finance say following an online enquiry made by Miss S through their website in 
September 2018, they received a signed authority form from Miss S, along with a detailed 
questionnaire. Miss S says she never provided her signature on these documents.
The authority form gave Quickly Finance permission to make a complaint on behalf of Miss 
S about a payday loan taken out with Lender F. The authority form included the terms and 
conditions. This explained that if Miss S claim was successful, Quickly Finance would 
charge 30% plus VAT on any compensation.  
Miss S was sent an email saying Thank you for your recent Payday Loan enquiry. Our 
Payday Loan Specialists will now begin work on your bespoke letter of complaint. 
Quickly Finance sent the claim to Lender F. Lender F agreed to waive the outstanding 
balance of £324.60 in settlement of Miss S claim. Quickly Finance sent their invoice for 
£116.85 to Miss S. 
Miss S complained to Quickly Finance saying she hadnt provided them with authority to 
make the claim, and the claim was made without her consent. Quickly Finance said theyd 
acted fairly by making the claim using the signed paperwork theyd received. 
Miss S didnt agree with Quickly Finances response. She referred her complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) for us to investigate.
The investigator found that Quickly Finance had acted reasonably in making the claim, and 
charging their invoice. Miss S said the IP address provided by Quickly Finance showed that 
the documents were completed in Nottingham. Miss S says this doesnt match with where 
she lives so this confirms that she didnt sign the forms. Miss S said shed like an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint.  Miss S says she didnt sign anything or instruct any 
company the forms were signed in Nottingham not where I live.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand that this has been an upsetting time for Miss S. Having reviewed the case, I 
agree with the investigators findings, for broadly the same reasons, and I wont be 
recommending compensation for this complaint. I can appreciate it mustve been upsetting for Miss S to hear about a claim, and receive an 
invoice, when she feels strongly she hadnt given permission for Quickly Finance to act on 
her behalf. 
Ive seen that on the same date that Quickly Finance says Miss S instructed them, Miss S 
was sent an email saying that Quickly Finance would begin working on her payday loan 
complaint. This email was sent to the same email address Miss S has provided to this 
service. I think its fair to say the email address is one Miss S uses. I cant say whether Miss 
S opened the email, or received it, but I think its more likely than not that this email was 
sent. 
When there are different versions of whats happened provided by a business and a 
customer, we need to make a decision based on what we think has happened on balance. I 
dont doubt that what Miss S has told me is how she remembers it. It just doesnt feel fair to 
say that Quickly Finance have acted unfairly when the evidence Ive seen supports the work 
they did was with authority from Miss S.
Quickly Finance say that the website wouldve prompted Miss S to tick boxes for all the 
potential lenders she thought she had taken out loans with, and had been mis-sold. This 
matches with the case notes provided by Quickly Finance which show that several lenders 
were identified during the early process, but only the claim against Lender F resulted in a 
successful claim. 
Miss S says the signature on the authority form is not hers, and so she shouldnt have to pay 
the success fee. I cant verify whether the signature on the authority form belongs to Miss S. 
But I think theres enough evidence for me to say that Quickly Finance acted fairly in making 
the claim using the paperwork that had been provided to them. 
Miss S says that the IP address provided by Quickly Finance doesnt match where she lives. 
Ive checked the IP address on the letter of authority and questionnaire, and I agree this 
location doesnt match the address Miss S has provided. But I dont think this evidence in 
itself is reason to say that Quickly Finance have acted unreasonably in making the claim, 
and charging their fee. 
The authority form was received by Quickly Finance, and acknowledged to the email 
address held for Miss S. The claim was successful because of work Quickly Finance did. 
The terms and conditions explained that if Miss S claim was successful, Quickly Finance 
would charge 30% plus VAT on any compensation from the claim. As Miss S claim was 
successful I think Quickly Finance have acted fairly in charging Miss S their success fee. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2020.
For the reasons provided I dont uphold Miss S complaint. 
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman