DRN-2928828
The complaint
Mr M complains that PRA Group (UK) Limited trading as PRA Group, wouldnt agree to a 
settlement figure he proposed to settle his debt. He also complains that PRA have 
incorrectly reported a default against him and didnt provide a copy of his credit agreement in 
a timely manner.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with a third-party lender. Mr M got into financial difficulties 
and entered into a debt management plan (DMP). Mr M made payments to the third-party 
lender through the DMP. The third-party lender defaulted Mr Ms account on 4 August 2015. 
And it sold the debt onto PRA. PRA continued to report the default. 
Mr M continued to pay PRA a monthly amount to repay the debt. But, in 2018, Mr M got into 
more difficulties and was unable to meet his repayments through the DMP. Mr M tells us that 
his family offered to give him a lump sum of money to negotiate settlements with his 
creditors. Mr M says that most of his creditors accepted his offer, but PRA didnt. He says 
this has caused him additional financial difficulties.
Mr M asked PRA for a copy of the credit agreement. Mr M says it took PRA 49 working days 
to provide this, which was more than the 12 working days it was allowed. Mr M finds this 
delay unacceptable. 
PRA responded to Mr Ms complaint. It said that it has now removed the default from Mr Ms 
credit file  it said it needed to confirm this with the original lender before it updated this with 
the credit reference agencies. PRA made Mr M another offer of £2,077.66 to settle the 
account, and it confirmed that it had asked Mr M for his last three months of bank statements 
so it could assess his financial position. But because it hadnt received these, it felt the 
£2,077.66 was a fair settlement offer  it said this offer would be valid for 12 months from the 
date of the letter. PRA agreed it took too long to send Mr M his credit agreement, but it 
hadnt sent demands for payment or made any attempts to litigate in the period where the 
debt would be considered unenforceable, so it didnt feel it had acted unfairly.
Our investigator also looked into things for Mr M, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said 
that PRA werent obliged to accept the settlement amounts Mr M had offered. He didnt think 
PRA had done anything wrong in reporting the default  given that this was information it 
had received from the original lender. And he didnt feel that Mr M had been negatively 
impacted by PRA not providing the credit agreement within 12 days.
Mr M didnt agree. He said that his other creditors hadnt asked for additional information 
about his financial circumstances before agreeing to accept a settlement offer. He felt that 
having the default on his credit report gave PRA reason to not accept his settlement offer 
and expect him to continue to repay the debt or make a higher offer.
Hes also said that PRA did try to contact him in the period where the debt would be deemed 
unenforceable. He said that he had many phone calls and messages from its collections 
department in 2019. Mr M added that he has a statement from August 2019 and a number or 
emails and letters in regard to his settlement offer  none of these mentioned that the debt 
was unenforceable. In relation to the default, Mr M maintains that he contacted PRA on a 
number of occasions about the default and asked them to remove it, but it didnt respond to 
him. Nor did it respond to other credit reference agencies requests. He says that it was up to 
PRA to ensure it was reporting correct information about his account. And hes unhappy that 
PRA hasnt acknowledged the impact the incorrect reporting of the default has had on him.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Because Mr M has made three main complaint points, I will cover these under separate 
headings below.
Settlement offers
It is up to PRA to choose to accept or decline a settlement offer made by a consumer. I 
appreciate that Mr M might have had offers accepted with other lenders, but this doesnt 
mean that PRA did anything wrong by not accepting his offer, or that PRA were obliged to 
accept offers just because other lenders had.
PRA did respond to Mr M with counter offers, which Mr M said he couldnt afford to accept. 
And in response to this, PRA asked Mr M for his last three months worth of bank statements 
so it could see how much he could afford. Mr M hasnt ever provided PRA with this 
information. I dont find it unreasonable of PRA to ask for this  afterall, Mr M is requesting 
that he pays substantially less than he owes to settle the account, so I think its fair of PRA to 
understand what he can and cant afford. 
Mr M says that having the default on his credit report has given PRA reason to not accept 
his settlement offer and expect him to continue to repay the debt or make a higher offer. I 
havent seen any evidence to support these comments. But it isnt unfair of PRA to expect 
Mr M to repay the debt that he owes  or offer a higher settlement amount to what Mr M 
says he can pay. 
The outstanding balance on the account is the amount due to be repaid by Mr M. Any 
settlement offer that PRA makes to Mr M is at its discretion. And it isnt obliged to accept any 
offer made by Mr M.
CCA and delays
PRA has accepted that it took too long to send Mr M his credit agreement  it took around 40 
days. While I agree that PRA could have done better here, I dont think this has had much 
impact on Mr M  theres still a requirement for him to repay the outstanding balance. So, I 
wont be asking PRA to do anything more for Mr M.
Default
Mr M is right in saying that PRA has a responsibility to ensure that the information it is 
reporting to the credit reference agencies is correct. It was the original lender who reported this default against Mr M. When PRA bought the 
debt, the original lender notified it of details of the default. It was then up to PRA to report 
this information too. 
Ive seen a copy of the information the original lender provided PRA about the default. Based 
on this, it seems PRA has been reporting the default correctly. 
Mr M complained to the original lender about the default  Ive seen a copy of the response 
letter the original lender sent to Mr M. It states that it has requested that the default is 
removed from Mr Ms account. This letter was dated 27 August 2019.
In the meantime, Mr M continues to contact PRA and other credit reference agencies about 
getting the default removed. He says that PRA didnt respond to him or the credit reference 
agencies  and it didnt quickly update his credit records to get the default removed. 
Its up to the original lender to decide if the default ought to be removed. PRA can only 
update this information with the credit reference agencies once it has had confirmation from 
the original lender. 
I can see that the original lender agreed to remove the default on 27 August 2019, it notified 
PRA of this on 5 September 2019, and PRA updated the credit reference agencies on 
12 September 2019. I can see that the credit reference agencies responded to PRA to 
confirm this information on 13 September 2019. I can also see that one credit reference 
agency got in touch with PRA group about the dispute in the information that was being 
reported. PRA responded to this credit reference agency and confirmed that it had requested 
for the default to be removed and asked that Mr M contact PRA with any further questions. 
Based on this, I dont find that it took PRA an unreasonable amount of time to update the 
credit reference agencies about the default, and I can see that it was communicating with the 
credit reference agencies about the information it was reporting.
While I appreciate that a default showing on Mr Ms credit file might have made it more 
difficult for him to be accepted for a mortgage, I dont find that this is as a result of something 
PRA has done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman