DRN-3628222
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel 
(BSPS) to a personal pension. Mr B believes the advice was unsuitable for him and this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 11 
December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr B was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his pension, so he sought advice. On 19 December 2017, Mr Bs existing financial 
adviser contacted NTM and asked it if it would provide Mr B with pension transfer advice. On 
the same day, NTM provided Mr Bs adviser with documents including a fact-find, which it 
asked Mr B to complete.
Mr Bs adviser returned the completed fact-find on 29 December 2017 to enable NTM to 
understand Mr Bs circumstances and objectives upon which to base its advice. Amongst 
other things this recorded that Mr B was 45 (soon to be 46); he was married with three 
children; he and his wife jointly owned their home, which had an outstanding mortgage of 
around £130,000; he had credit card debts of around £32,000; jointly he and his wife were 
saving around £800 a month but this was typically spent during the year; he had no existing 
investments and no real cash savings to speak of; and he wanted to retire at 55.
Mr B indicated that he had no prior investment experience and he saw himself as a low risk 
investor. NTM appears to have carried out a further assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk 
resulting in it deeming Mr B to be an average or balanced risk investor.
Mr B met with NTM on 4 January 2018 to discuss the completed documents. 
Its recorded in a meeting file note that Mr B had decided not to opt into the new BSPS2 and 
that the deadline to do so had passed.
In a report dated 8 January 2018, NTM advised Mr B to transfer his DB scheme benefits into 
a personal pension and invest the proceeds in a portfolio of funds NTM deemed matched 
Mr Bs attitude to risk. In summary, the suitability report said the reasons for this 
recommendation were: to provide Mr B with the control of his pension; to provide better 
(lump sum) death benefits for his family; to enable Mr B to break ties with his employer; and 
to enable Mr B to have flexibility in retirement - the ability to vary his income and take lump 
sums.
In a further meeting with NTM on 11 January 2018 to discuss the recommendation, Mr B 
accepted the recommendation and sometime later, around £427,000 was transferred to his 
new personal pension and invested as recommended.
In 2021 Mr B complained to NTM, via our Service, about the transfer advice. Mr B told us 
that he thought hed been misadvised about transferring his pension. In his complaint form 
he said he was told by the adviser that the BSPS2 wouldnt likely be viable in the long-term 
and it would eventually go to the PPF, and that he didnt know what he was doing.
NTM didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In addition to setting out a timeline of the events leading 
up to the Time to Choose exercise, Mr Bs interactions with NTM and summarising his 
circumstances and objectives, in summary it said that there was no evidence the adviser 
stated the BSPS would not survive. It said it noted that the option to move to the BSPS2 had 
already expired prior to Mr B meeting with NTM. It said a file note records that Mr B had 
already chosen not to transfer to the BSPS2. It said in relation to Mr Bs comment that he 
didnt know what he was doing, it believes Mr B engaged with the advice process and he 
received both written and verbal advice. It said there was no evidence that Mr B was not fully 
informed. 
Dissatisfied with its response, Mr B asked us to consider his complaint. An investigator 
upheld the complaint and required NTM to pay compensation. In summary they said, while 
Mr B may have liked the idea of retiring early, there is no evidence he had any firm plans  
they didnt think this was an objective that had to be met at Mr Bs age of 45. They said NTM 
didnt carry out a detailed income and expenditure analysis to show how Mr Bs stated 
income need of £1,500 a month in retirement was arrived at, particularly given his current 
household income of around £4,000 a month was typically all being spent. They said any 
need Mr B had for flexibility couldve been achieved though his workplace defined 
contribution pension  they also thought any need Mr B might have had for a cash lump sum 
couldve been satisfied using this. They didnt think lump sum death benefits were of 
overriding importance or justified a transfer out of the scheme. And they said given the 
growth rates required to match Mr Bs DB scheme benefits, they thought they were unlikely 
to be consistently achieved. 
For these reasons they didnt think the transfer was suitable. The investigator also raised 
concerns about the apparent discrepancy in Mr Bs recorded attitude to risk in the advice 
paperwork, which showed it was low and then average. And they thought Mr Bs capacity 
for loss was low given Mr B had no savings, he had outstanding debts and he had two 
children who would remain financially dependent on him for several years. The investigator 
concluded by saying that NTM shouldve advised Mr B to transfer to the BSPS2 because it 
was the better option for him in the circumstances.
NTM disagreed. It provided an 11-page substantive response. While I have read this in full 
and I will refer to some of the more detailed points later on, in summary it said:
The investigator didnt address the complaint Mr B made but instead adjudicated on 
a complaint hed not made. It believes Mr B had not complained about the overall 
advice to transfer out. It said the first part of Mr Bs complaint was typed and it 
believes from the language used that it is not the words of Mr B but of some other 
unidentified person.
The investigator misunderstood the timeline of events and the options available to Mr B at the time of the advice.
The investigator mis-understood the level of benefits set out in the evidence.
The evidence does not support the apparent conclusion reached that Mr B wouldve 
done whatever NTM advised him to do  this contradicts NTMs understanding of 
Mr Bs attitude at the time of the advice.
The investigator failed to give a balanced perspective to the use of flexible benefits to 
achieve Mr Bs objectives.
The investigator failed to give appropriate weight to Mr Bs circumstances and 
objectives.
The investigator failed to appreciate the rationale for NTMs advice.
There are serious flaws in the investigators approach to their assessment of the 
case.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind. They referred NTM back to their 
original view, which they said covered all of the points it had raised in response. They added 
that they were satisfied Mr Bs complaint was clearly about the advice to transfer his BSPS 
benefits  they said Mr B was entitled to express his complaint in any way he saw fit.
Because things couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
Before issuing my final decision, I wrote to both parties to say that I intended to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator, but I wanted to clarify the basis 
upon which I intended to direct NTM to put things right. I said that the investigator had 
concluded that NTM shouldve advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2 because this was the 
best option for him in the circumstances. But I said this option wasnt available to Mr B  hed 
made the decision not to join the BSPS2 and the advice process didnt begin until after the 
deadline to opt into the BSPS (22 December 2017) had passed. So NTM could not 
recommend this course of action. I said that I intended to conclude that if suitable advice had 
been given, Mr B wouldve remained in the scheme and moved with it to the PPF  so it is 
the benefits available to Mr B through the PPF which should form the basis of the loss 
calculation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTM's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Firstly, Id like to address NTMs point about the investigator not addressing the complaint 
Mr B made but instead went on to consider something different i.e. the suitability of the 
advice, which was not a complaint Mr B had made.
For the avoidance of doubt, our role is to look at the whole picture and think about what lies 
at the heart of a complaint. And I agree with the investigator here  Im satisfied the crux of 
Mr Bs complaint is about the suitability of the advice he received to transfer his BSPS 
scheme benefits to a personal pension. I think Mr Bs initial email complaint to us was clear 
about what his concerns were  he said: I think I been misadvised about transferring my 
pension... But, even if Mr B wasnt entirely clear, just because he didnt, or perhaps couldnt 
articulate his complaint fully or use the language NTM might have expected him to use when 
complaining about the suitability of the advice (notwithstanding that I think he was sufficiently 
clear) this doesnt mean we cant consider what we feel NTM shouldve looked at when it 
considered Mr Bs complaint. To not do so would, in my view, be treating Mr B unfairly. I 
think our role is to do more than just look at a complaint as it's written or explained to us  
what we refer to as our inquisitorial remit. And it is for these reasons that Im satisfied it is 
appropriate for me to address what I believe lies at the heart of Mr Bs complaint, which is 
the suitability or otherwise of the pension transfer advice he received in 2018.
Financial viability
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) showing how 
much Mr Bs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same 
benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). I can see this was based on Mr Bs existing 
BSPS scheme benefits. But as I explained above, at the time of the advice Mr B didnt have 
the option to remain in the BSPS  hed chosen to move with the scheme to the PPF. So while its possible that NTM had to include the existing benefits in the TVAS report, it is only 
the benefits available to Mr B through the PPF that are relevant in this case.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr B was 45 (soon to be 46) at the time of the advice and it was recorded in the advice 
paperwork that he wanted to retire early at 55. The TVAS report of 8 January 2018 set out 
the relevant critical yields. As I said above, only the benefits available to Mr B through the 
PPF are relevant here, so I have ignored those relating to the existing scheme. Remaining in 
the scheme wasnt an option. To match  the benefits available to Mr B through the PPF at 
his target retirement age of 55, the critical yields were 6.69% assuming Mr B took a full 
pension and 6.25% if he took a cash lump sum and a reduced pension.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and
was 3.7% per year for nine years to retirement (age 55.) Ive kept in mind that the regulator's 
projection rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs
recorded average or balanced attitude to risk (Ill discuss this in more detail below) and 
also the term to retirement. In my view, there would be little point in Mr B giving up the 
guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level 
of benefits outside the scheme.
But here the lowest critical yield was 6.25%. And this rate was significantly higher than the 
discount rate and it was still above the regulators middle projection rate. Given this, 
I think it was clear that Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall 
value than those provided by the PPF by transferring out and as a result of investing in line 
with a balanced attitude to risk.
I can see NTM implies that too much weight has been placed on discount rates. I havent
based my findings solely on this, but I think it is a reasonable additional consideration when
seeking to determine what level of growth was reasonably achievable at the time of the
advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required businesses to compare the benefits likely
to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable under a personal pension by using
reasonable assumptions. So, businesses, like NTM, were free to use the discount rate as
this was considered a reasonable assumption of the likely returns. And in any event, Ive
considered this in tandem with the regulators published projection rates, which providers
were required to refer to. And it is this combination, along with Mr Bs attitude to investment
risk, which leads me to be believe hed likely be worse off in retirement if he transferred out
of the DB scheme.
NTM says the investigator failed to consider the hurdle rate, which it says is a useful tool to
understand the level of risk with a personal pension. But the hurdle rate ignores any 
spouses pension benefit as well as increases in payment. So in my view, reference to this
rate underplays the true value of the DB scheme benefits Mr B was considering giving up. I
still consider reference to the critical yield gives a good indication of the value of benefits
Mr B was considering giving up. I also think it is a relevant and important consideration here,particularly given Mr Bs circumstances and the fact that I dont think he could realistically 
say with any certainty whether he would want to take a fixed regular income at retirement or 
not. Mr B wasnt expecting to retire for another at least nine years  so its entirely possible 
that he would want at least some guaranteed income in retirement, which he could achieve 
by taking benefits from the PPF.
In NTMs response to the investigator it has also referred to the drawdown analysis  it says 
that the advice to transfer clearly demonstrated a financial benefit to Mr B from age 60 using 
the FCAs assumed growth rate of 5%: Mr B could replicate the benefits given up and his 
fund would last beyond his life expectancy and the fund value would be in excess of 
£147,000 or he could take a greater initial income of £9,066 (increasing) which was 
sustainable to age 100 at 5% growth rate and would also leave a surplus fund value.
Its not clear to me where NTM has got these figures from - they do not appear to relate to 
Mr Bs case. The figures do not correlate to the those provided in the suitability report  for 
example the starting income is significantly lower than Mr B was entitled to and the 
retirement age of 60 was never under consideration. It strikes me NTM has copied and 
pasted the figures from a different set of analysis. But looking at the drawdown analysis in 
the suitability report, Im not persuaded this demonstrates the transfer was suitable or that it 
was financially viable. The fundamental issue with it is that the analysis does not assume 
Mr B draws the level of annual income he said he wanted to target at age 55  it only 
assumes the level of income available through the existing scheme which was lower than he 
said he needed. So I dont think this was helpful for Mr B. In addition and notwithstanding 
this, the analysis assumes a consistent growth rate of 5% per year. NTM has not shown for 
example the impact on Mr Bs pension fund by factors such as periods of poor performance 
and/or increases in inflation  there is no stress testing. Furthermore the analysis assumes 
that Mr B would be happy and it was suitable for him to take his pension benefits via 
drawdown. But Im not persuaded it was based on what I think Mr Bs true level of risk was. 
Ill explain why.
Notwithstanding my view that by adopting a balanced risk approach meant Mr B was likely to
be worse of in retirement as a result of transferring, I have concerns about how NTM
ultimately deemed Mr B was prepared to take an average or balanced approach to risk 
with his pension. I say this because, in the fact-find document its recorded that Mr B saw 
himself as a low-risk investor. The description of this risk categories is, in my view, 
reasonably clear and in plain easy to understand language, so I think Mr B wouldve likely 
understood it. This was not an assessment where answers to a series of questions are 
scored to arrive at an overall risk profile  the question asked of Mr B in the fact-find was a 
simple and direct one: Which statement reflects your attitude to risk.
Given this, together with Mr Bs lack of investment experience, it leads me to
believe a low-risk approach was the true level of risk Mr B was prepared to take here.
Yet in the risk profile questionnaire, some of the answers Mr B gave conflict with the low-risk 
group he originally indicated he saw himself in, in the fact-find  albeit the first and
in my view important question Mr B was asked still indicated he was a low risk taker. And
this assessment appears to have resulted in categorising Mr B as an average or a
balanced risk investor. 
It seems to me from the evidence presented that NTM talked up Mr Bs risk profile to 
balanced as part of this separate risk profiling assessment and in its discussions with him to 
support or justify the advice to transfer.
I think NTM shouldve placed greater weight on Mr Bs original answer to his risk 
categorisation. I accept that the advisers job is to advise, so this might include challenging or questioning an investors risk profile; particularly if the profile doesnt match their 
knowledge or experience or they give conflicting answers in a profiling assessment.
But on the other hand and in this case, Mr B had given what I think was a clear indication as
to the level of risk he was prepared to take with his pension.
 
This was not a minor investment in an ISA where a small regular monthly contribution was at 
stake and in the overall scheme of things might not have much impact  this was a 
significant investment and a transaction that was irreversible. Mr B did not have much if any 
capacity for loss  this pension accounted for almost all of his private retirement provision at 
this time,  he had no real cash assets, he had outstanding liabilities and he still had financial 
dependents. Im mindful too that NTM recorded Mr B had surrendered his mortgage 
endowment policy because it was not on track to meet its target amount. I think this is further 
evidence to support Mr Bs low risk attitude.
So taking everything into account, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for NTM to have
encouraged/persuaded Mr B to take on a greater level of risk than he clearly indicated he
was prepared to take. I think NTMs advice ought to have been based on Mr Bs willingness
to accept, at best a low-risk attitude towards investing. 
In summary, because I dont think the transfer was financially viable, for this reason alone a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Bs best interests. Of course financial viability 
isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations 
which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered 
this below
Flexibility and income needs
NTM recommended the transfer to provide Mr B with flexibility  the ability to vary his income 
during the early years of retirement, which couldnt be achieved through the PPF.
But Im not persuaded that Mr B knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in
retirement. And in any event, I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to 
achieve flexibility if thats what he ultimately required.
Mr B was approaching 46 years old at the time of the advice. And while I accept he might
have given some thought to his future retirement, I dont think he had anything that
could reasonably be described as a concrete retirement plan. Mr B indicated that he wanted 
to retire at 55 - but I think Mr B, like most people if asked, liked the idea of retiring as early as 
possible. But Im not persuaded it was a firm objective at the time. For example the advisers 
initial meeting note refers to the possibility of Mr B continuing to work but doing less. 
Of course Mr B already had the option of taking early retirement he didnt have to transfer 
out to achieve this. I accept Mr B couldnt take his benefits flexibly. Although he could 
choose to take a cash lump sum and a reduced annual pension, Mr B had to take those 
benefits at the same time. But nothing here indicates that Mr B had a strong need to take a 
cash lump sum and defer taking his income. For example, based on the information 
recorded in the fact-find about Mr Bs mortgage, this was due to be repaid in around nine 
years time, so before or around the time Mr B was thinking about retiring. 
And nothing was recorded about any intended essential large capital expenditure to support 
a need for a cash sum but defer taking an income. 
I can see Mr B had a not insignificant outstanding credit card debt of around £32,000, which 
might suggest Mr B needed access to a lump sum in the future and at the earliest 
opportunity and not necessarily want an income too. But firstly I think there was scope for 
Mr B to reduce, if not fully repay this before he was thinking about accessing his benefits  the fact-find records that he was paying around £345 a month towards it and that one of the 
amounts was on a 0% interest rate, and it appears there was scope to divert some of the 
surplus income he was saving towards its repayment. Secondly, I think the debt was 
affordable and theres nothing to indicate that would change, so it doesnt appear there was 
financial pressure which would necessitate access to a lump sum to ensure its timely 
repayment. I think if any debt remained outstanding at the time Mr B wanted to retire, he 
couldve used some of his tax-free cash entitlement at the same time as taking his income. 
Also, while Mr B might have liked the idea of having a higher income in the early stages of 
his retirement, I havent seen anything to indicate that Mr B had a strong need to vary his 
income throughout retirement  I dont think Mr B knew with any degree of certainty what his 
income needs would be at this stage. So it strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or 
a consequence of transferring to a personal pension arrangement rather than a genuine 
objective of Mr Bs at the time.
Nevertheless, I think Mr B already had a degree of flexibility if thats what he ultimately 
required at the time. This is because Mr B was contributing to his workplace DC pension 
scheme and had been since April 2017. And the nature of a DC scheme means this already 
provided Mr B with flexibility  he wasnt committed to take these benefits in a set way. 
Based on the recorded contributions in the fact-find both Mr B and his employer were 
making into his pension, it appears around £7,100 was being added a year. On this basis, 
taking account of the likely value at the time of the advice, by age 55, and without accounting 
for any salary increases, increases in contribution rate or investment growth, I think Mr Bs 
pension could be worth in excess of £70,000. Taking investment growth into account, its 
possible it could be substantially more. I think Mr B couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr B 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve likely 
given him the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided.
So in any event, Mr B didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement.
Turning to Mr Bs income need. While I dont think Mr B could say with any degree of 
certainty what retirement income he would need given his intended retirement was at least 
nine years away - and I cant see that NTM attempted to carry out any detailed analysis of 
his likely expected income and expenditure in retirement - it was recorded that Mr B wanted 
£1,500 a month net. On the basis that Mr Bs mortgage was repaid at this time, his wife 
would continue working and his income requirements would be lower than when he was 
working, this doesnt appear unreasonable. But it was more than Mr B was entitled to 
through the PPF. So if NTM didnt think it was a viable proposition for Mr B to retire at 55, I 
think it was incumbent on it to say so.
That said, I still think Mr B stood a better chance of meeting his objective by retaining his DB 
scheme benefits and that the income from the PPF wouldve provided him with a solid 
guaranteed income foundation upon which he could use his other provision to supplement  
at least until his state pension became payable. Mr B also said he might continue to work, so 
I think he had several options open to him to meet his overall income need. 
For example, if Mr B chose to continue working, say part-time as it appears he alluded to, 
and his income deficit was relatively small, he could use his DC scheme to supplement this. 
This would allow him to defer taking his DB scheme benefits for longer meaning the starting 
income would be higher than taking it immediately at 55. Alternatively, at age 55 through the 
PPF Mr B was entitled to a full pension of around £14,800, which he could supplement 
through any earned income. Once Mr B decided to retire fully, he could use his DC scheme 
to make up any difference in income need until his state pension became payable. Mr Bs wife also had her own pension provision, which could supplement things when she retired 
recorded as likely being around four years after Mr B turned 55.
But if Mr B chose not to continue working beyond 55, I still think he had the flexibility and 
means to likely achieve things. Mr B could choose to take a reduced income of around 
£12,400 through the PPF and the maximum tax-free cash of around £82,000. Allowing for 
repayment of any outstanding debt, Mr B could use the remaining lump sum to supplement 
his income after which he could use his DC scheme until his state pension became payable.
It appears to me that Mr B had several options open to him to meet his objectives and 
already had the flexibility he needed to retire early  if thats what he ultimately decided to 
do. So I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his pension just to have 
(greater) flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed.
Death benefits
NTM also recommended the transfer to enable Mr B to have lump sum death benefits
to provide for his family in the event of his death  Mr B wanted to ensure his wife was able 
to maintain the same level of income in retirement in the event of his death.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to
advise Mr B about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy planning tool. And I dont think 
NTM explored to what extent Mr B was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr B
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme wouldve been
useful to his spouse if Mr B predeceased her. I dont think NTM made the value of this
benefit clear enough to Mr B. This was guaranteed and escalated. Furthermore, it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. In any event, NTM should not have encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential 
for higher death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Im mindful there that Mr B already had lump sum death benefits available to him. He had
death-in-service benefit, which would provide his wife with a lump sum if he died before
retirement. And he was also contributing to his workplace DC scheme, which he could
nominate his wife as beneficiary of if he hadnt already done so.
Furthermore, if Mr B genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his wife, which didnt depend
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think NTM
shouldve instead explored additional life insurance. I appreciate that the suitability report
mentioned a whole of life policy with a sum assured equivalent to the transfer value  this
was discounted by the adviser because of the cost (£375.41 a month). 
But I dont think that this was a balanced way of presenting this option to Mr B. Basing the 
quote on the transfer value of Mr Bs pension benefits essentially assumed that he would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, and that isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr B wanted 
to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife, which would be a lot less than this if 
he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor.So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr B how much he would ideally like to 
leave to his wife, taking into account the lump sum benefits he already had, and this couldve
been explored on a whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be cheaper to 
provide. Given Mr Bs surplus income, I see no reason why this wouldnt have been 
affordable. I think this is the solution NTM ought to have ultimately recommended to satisfy 
Mr Bs objective rather than recommend he transfer out of his DB scheme to achieve things.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. And I dont think that
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over the PPF
I understand that Mr B, like many of his colleagues no doubt, was concerned about his
pension. His employer had recently made the announcement about its plans for the scheme
and he was worried about his pension ending up in the PPF  albeit Mr B appears to have 
chosen this route because he didnt opt into the BSPS2. So its quite possible that Mr B was 
leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had. But it was NTMs 
obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
While I can see NTM said in its suitability report that the PPF provides excellent protection 
and would secure most of the income you desire in my view, NTM somewhat undermined 
things because it went on to say that it wouldnt meet Mr Bs stated objectives for flexibility, 
the ability to tax plan using tax-free cash and lump sum death benefits.
I think NTM shouldve done more to reassure Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought or been led to believe. Importantly Mr B still had the 
option of taking early retirement. Mr B didnt have any concrete retirement plans at this stage 
- but I think the income available to Mr B through the PPF wouldve still provided a solid 
base, which his DC scheme and perhaps part-time work income could supplement to likely 
meet his overall income need at retirement. Crucially he was also unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr B 
might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but given what I said earlier on 
about him already having flexibility, I dont think there was an apparent need for him to do 
so.
So I dont think that Mr Bs concerns about the PPF was a suitable or compelling reason to 
recommend a transfer out of the DB scheme altogether.
Suitability of investments
Because I think the level of risk Mr B was prepared to take with his pension was lower than
the risk profile of the recommended investment funds, I think the investment strategy
recommended was unsuitable. But as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it follows that I dont need to consider
the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr B should have been
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable
advice had been given.
Summary
I accept that Mr B was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns
about the scheme were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for
higher death benefits on offer through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive
features to Mr B. But NTM wasnt there to just transact what Mr B might have thought hewanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Mr B needed and recommend 
what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr B was very likely to obtain
lower overall retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr B didnt have any firm retirement plans, 
so he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the scheme just to have greater 
flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed, and the potential for higher death benefits 
wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with his DB scheme. So, I dont think it 
was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer out of the DB scheme.
Because as I explained earlier on, Mr B had chosen not to opt into the BSPS2 but instead 
had decided to remain with the existing scheme and move with it to the PPF, in light of this 
and because the deadline had already passed to opt into the BSPS2, I think NTM shouldve 
recommended that Mr B remain in the scheme and move with it to the PPF.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr B would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs
advice. NTM argues this is the case saying there is no evidence he wouldve followed 
whatever NTM advised  this is not supported by the evidence and contradicts NTMs 
understanding of Mr Bs attitudes at the time.  
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr B wouldve insisted on
transferring out of the BSPS against NTMs advice.
I say this because, while as Ive already said Mr B was likely motivated to transfer when he
approached NTM, and Im mindful that I understand Mr B had received advice to transfer 
prior to dealing with NTM which didnt go ahead, on balance, I still think Mr B wouldve 
listened to and followed NTMs advice if things had happened as they should have and NTM 
had recommended he not transfer out of the scheme. Mr B doesnt appear to have had 
much if any prior investment experience, so Im not persuaded Mr B possessed the requisite 
skill, knowledge or confidence to against the advice he was given, particularly in complex 
pension matters.
Mr Bs pension accounted for almost all of his private retirement provision at the time and I
believe his true attitude to investment risk was low. So, if NTM had provided him with clear
advice against transferring out of the scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I
think he wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that any concerns Mr B might have had about his employer, or
the concerns he had about the scheme entering the PPF, were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. Regarding 
Mr Bs desire to break all ties with his employer - its clear that he still worked for the same 
employer and he hadnt indicated he intended to find alternative employment. Mr B was also 
a member of his employers new DC pension scheme. So, Mr B wasnt going to achieve a 
separation from his employer by transferring, as he would remain tied to the employer in 
other respects. 
So if NTM had clearly explained this and that Mr B could likely meet all of his objectives
without risking his guaranteed albeit reduced pension, I think that wouldve carried significant 
weight. So, Im not persuaded Mr B wouldve insisted on transferring out of the BSPS if NTM 
had given suitable advice and recommended that he should remain in the scheme and move 
with it to the PPF.In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr B. So Ive also thought about whether its fair to 
award compensation for distress and inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish 
NTM  which is the job of the regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and 
practical impact this had on Mr B. Taking everything into account, including that I consider 
Mr B is now at the age when his retirement provision is of great importance, I think the 
unsuitable advice has caused him distress. So I think an award of £300 is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. 
NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon completion of the 
calculation.
For clarity, Mr B has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
andtake a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
NTM should also pay Mr B £300 for the distress and inconvenience the unsuitable advice 
has caused.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman