DRN-2858892
The complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited mishandled his claim on a motorcycle
insurance policy.
What happened
From May 2020, Mr B had a motorbike insured on a comprehensive policy under which MCE
was responsible for dealing with claims.
Unfortunately, his motorbike was damaged in an accident on about 12 July 2020. After he
made a claim to MCE, it arranged collection of the bike on 12 August 2020.
Following inspection of the bike, MCE said the bike was a write-off of category N. MCE
offered Mr B its pre-accident valuation of the bike. He accepted, but he asked how he could
get back the following three items:
top box
luggage rack insert (to accommodate the top box)
fender extender
In mid-September 2020, MCE responded that the items couldnt be removed as they werent
personal items. Mr B complained to us straight away about the three items. We referred his
complaint to MCE. By a final response dated 12 November 2020, MCE quoted extracts from
the policy terms and turned down the complaint. (It also turned down another complaint
about his motorcycle leathers and helmet).
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint about the three items should be upheld.
She thought that each item was designed to be removed which Mr B wouldve done if hed
been given the opportunity - or thought he wouldnt get the motorbike back. She said MCE
had misunderstood Mr Bs request for the items  MCE responded as if hed made it part of
his insurance claim. Mr B will be potentially left out of pocket when he has to replace them.
The investigator recommended that MCE should:
1. give Mr B back his property;
2. if theyve been disposed of, MCE need to provide evidence of how it happened 
and when it was;
3. if the items cant be returned, MCE needs to pay Mr B the amount it will cost to 
replace them: 
Mr B to provide invoice details to MCE for the cost of replacing the items.
MCE to pay Mr B the cost of replacing the items.
4. MCE to compensate Mr B £150.00 for inconvenience of having to handle his 
complaint and source the replacements if theyre not returned to him.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to MCE on 12 May 2021. I summarise my findings:
As each of the three items were within the policy definitions of accessories or 
modifications, the policy said that MCE wouldnt return them. For that reason, I 
wasnt minded to find that MCE treated Mr B unfairly by not tracking down the three 
items and returning them to him.
Subject to any further information from Mr B or from MCE, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct MCE Insurance Company Limited to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
Mr B disagrees with the provisional decision. He says, in summary, that:
When the motorcycle was taken by MCE for repair/assessment, he did not know he 
would not be getting it back, as the damage was relatively minimal. He assumed it 
would be repaired and not written off (he still holds that view).
As soon as he was made aware it would be written off, he asked for the 3 items to be 
returned. He realises that two of the items would require tools to remove, but the top 
box simply unclips from the bike.
He wouldve been willing to pay the cost of sending the top box back to him, instead 
they fobbed him off with excuses as to why it couldnt be removed from the bike. 
Eventually they said it wasnt a personal item and therefore refused to return it.
The fact that accessories arent covered by the policy is irrelevant, as he wasnt 
asking MCE to include the cost in their assessment, nor did they. All he wanted was 
the return of his uninsured property. He doesnt think thats unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From April 2020, the bike insured on the policy was a bike that had first been registered in
2011. From May 2020, Mr B changed the bike on the policy for a bike that had first been
registered in 2018.
The policy provided a definition as follows:
Accessories
Additional or supplementary parts of your motorcycle not directly related to its
function as a motorcycle, limited to manufacturers fitted audio equipment, luggage
racks, safety bars, top boxes, tank bags and other luggage carriers which are fitted to
your motorcycle.
That definition doesnt include all additional parts not directly related to the function as amotorcycle. The phrase limited to limits accessories to manufacturers fitted audio
equipment, luggage racks, safety bars, top boxes, tank bags and other luggage carriers.
The policy provided another definition as follows:
Modifications
Where a change has been made to the manufacturers factory fitted standard
specification. Manufacturers optional extras are not classified as a modification if
they have been declared and we have agreed to arrange cover for them.
The policy provided another definition as follows:
Personal Effects
Portable items that you normally wear, use or carry with you when you leave your
home. This does not include accessories or modifications on your bike.
So there was a clear distinction between personal effects and accessories or modifications.
The policy provided as follows:
Section 1 - Loss or damage
What Is Covered?

This cover does not apply to accessories or modifications.
If accessories and modifications are fitted to your vehicle, we cannot return these
after any type of loss.
The policy also provided as follows:
Exceptions to Section 1 of your policy
Your policy does not cover the following:

5. Loss of/or damage to accessories, spare parts or any modifications made to your
motorcycle.
So the policy didnt cover loss or damage to accessories or modifications. And  crucially - 
the policy said that - after any type of loss - MCE wouldnt return any accessories and 
modifications fitted to the bike. 
After the accident, a few weeks passed before Mr B made a claim to MCE. By a standard
letter dated 10 August 2020, MCE said it would take the bike to storage for an inspection to
assess whether it would be repaired or declared a total loss. The letter asked for documents
and keys. But it didnt say anything about removing any items from the bike.
A couple of days later, MCE sent someone to collect the bike. In his later complaint form to
us, Mr B said the following:
I asked the person collecting the bike if it was ok to leave the topbox on the bike and
he said yes.
I have no reason to doubt what Mr B said. But I dont consider that the collection driver said
anything inappropriate  or that Mr B could reasonably rely on the collection driver for advice
about the top box.
I accept that Mr B was expecting MCE to repair the motorbike and return it to him with thethree items attached.
MCE assessed the bike as it was. I accept that its pre-accident valuation (and figure for the
salvage option) took account of the items still attached to the bike.
By an email dated 21 August 2020, MCE offered Mr B its pre-accident market valuation of
the bike (less a policy excess). It also offered him a figure for a salvage deduction if he
wished to keep the damaged bike.
Later that day, Mr B replied to MCE, asking it a number of questions. One of his questions
was how he could get back the top box and insert.
By an email dated 25 August 2020, Mr B accepted the valuation and said he didnt want to
keep the damaged bike. But he referred to his earlier email and requested the return of the
three items including the fender extender. I consider that  by that stage  Mr B had 
accepted that the bike was a write-off  and he didnt want to salvage it and pay for repair.
By an email dated 17 September 2020, MCE said the items werent classed as personal and
couldnt be removed.
I accept that the three items were easy to remove from the bike. But Im in no doubt that the
top box was an accessory as defined in the policy. The same probably applies to the
luggage rack insert  insofar as it was part of the top box or other luggage carrier. But if the
insert wasnt an accessory then it mustve been within the policy definition of a modification.
The fender extender wasnt an accessory within the limited definition in the policy. But Mr B
has said it was an extension to a mud guard. So I find that it was within the policy definition
of a modification.
As each of the three items were within the policy definitions of accessories or modifications,
the policy said that MCE wouldnt return them after any type of loss. For that reason, I dont 
find that MCE treated Mr B unfairly by not tracking down the three items and returning them 
to him.
And I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct MCE to compensate Mr B for their loss or for 
their replacement or for his inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct MCE Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021. 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman