DRN-2588980
The complaint
Mrs S complains, on behalf of the estate of Mr T, that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) declined a claim on her late husbands term assurance policy.
When raising this complaint, the estate of Mr T also had legal representation but for ease, in 
this decision, I will refer to their actions as those of Mrs S.
What happened
In 2016 Mr T took out a decreasing term life assurance policy with Friends Life and Pensions 
Limited. This policy was later transferred to Aviva. 
Sadly, in 2019 Mr T passed away. Following this, Mrs S submitted a claim. 
To help its assessment of the claim, Aviva requested information from Mr Ts GP. It then 
became aware that Mr T had a history of alcohol problems. In particular it noted that: 
Mr T had had a blood test in relation to his driving licence application in 2012 and the 
results had come back abnormal. 
Mr Ts alcohol consumption was recorded as a bottle of spirits a day in 2011 and as 
60 units a week in 2012. 
Mr T had been referred to alcohol advice services in 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Given this, Aviva felt Mr T had answered the following questions incorrectly in his policy 
application:
Have you been advised by your doctor or other medical practitioner to drink less 
alcohol?
Mr T answered no.
In the last five years have you had any of the following: Had or have been advised to 
have any medical investigations, scans or blood tests?
Mr T answered yes and explained hed had a blood test to re-apply for his driving 
licence following a drink driving conviction. Mr T was then asked were the results 
normal? to which he responded yes.
 
Aviva decided Mr T had carelessly misrepresented his circumstances by failing to share this 
information in the application form. It said it wouldnt have offered Mr T the policy had it 
known this information. It declined the claim, avoided his policy (cancelled the policy from 
the start) and refunded the premiums.
Mrs S was unhappy with this decision and so she asked Aviva to review its decision and 
later complained. But Aviva maintained its decision and didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs S then brought her concerns to our service. After looking into things, our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint as he felt there had been a careless misrepresentation and Aviva 
wouldnt have offered cover had it had all of the information it should have. 
Mrs S didnt think this was fair. She observed that many other questions in the application 
asked have you ever been [emphasis added]. However, the question about alcohol 
advice did not include the word ever and Avivas interpretation of the question was reading 
this word in. She noted Mr T hadnt recently been advised to reduce his alcohol intake such 
that his answer of no was reasonable. 
Given Mrs S disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im very sorry for Mrs Ss loss. 
Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also considered the industry 
guidance that was in place at the time Aviva made its decision. This is called, 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims 
For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products 
April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific and 
whether an agent (ie. a broker or advisor) was acting for the consumer. The code also says 
consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the opportunity to check 
their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately prominent.
The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless. Where a misrepresentation is 
careless, for an insurer to avoid the policy and return the premiums, CIDRA says the 
misrepresentation/s would have to have resulted in the application being declined. If the 
insurer would have charged a higher premium, CIDRA states it should then proportionately 
settle the claim.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Neither party disputes that Mr T had a history of alcohol problems. But Mrs S doesnt think 
there was a misrepresentation in the way Mr T answered the questions  so Ive considered 
each in turn. 
Have you been advised by your doctor or other medical practitioner to drink less alcohol?
The evidence shows Mr T had been advised to reduce his alcohol intake in 2012. I also think 
its fair to say, on balance, that hed have received similar advice when he was referred to 
alcohol support services in 2010 and 2011. But Mrs S believes this question was unclear, and so it cant be said that Mr T failed to take 
reasonable care when answering it. Mrs S noted Mr T hadnt had problems with alcohol after 
2012 and this is supported by the medical evidence. 
I agree with Mrs S that this question doesnt include the word ever. I also note that other 
questions, including the one that appeared immediately after this question, did. A lack of 
timescales can make questions unclear such that they can be fairly interpreted in a number 
of ways and where this happens, it may be that the consumer has taken reasonable care 
even when their answer doesnt appear to be accurate.
But Im not persuaded that this is the case here. I think a reasonable consumer would 
understand that if theyd been advised to drink less by a medical practitioner then they 
should answer yes to this question, regardless of when this was. I dont think this question 
can reasonably be interpreted to only apply to recent experience, or the last few years when 
such timescales arent mentioned. Im aware, as Mrs S has highlighted, that the same 
argument could be applied to Avivas interpretation of the question - she feels it has added 
ever to its interpretation despite the absence of this word in the question. But the difference 
here is that I think Avivas interpretation is how a reasonable consumer would understand 
this question in the absence of any specific timescales being given. I dont think this question 
is ambiguous such that a person in Mr Ts circumstances could reasonably answer no. I say 
this noting the number of referrals for support in the relatively recent past, which I also think 
means Aviva can fairly expect Mr T to have remembered hed received this advice.
Im also satisfied that Mr T had the opportunity to check his answers as a proposal summary 
document was sent to him in 2016. Having reviewed this, I can see it gave him the 
opportunity to amend any answers and stressed the importance of ensuring the information 
was accurate. It warned that inaccurate answers could result in the non-payment of benefit 
or the cancellation of cover. 
For all of these reasons I think its fair for Aviva to say there was a misrepresentation in 
relation to the above question.
In the last five years have you had any of the following: Had or have been advised to have 
any medical investigations, scans or blood tests? - Were the results normal?
Mr T answered the first part of this question correctly, in that he disclosed having taken a 
blood test when he re-applied for his driving licence. He said the results were normal but, 
again, the medical evidence shows this was not the case. But its not clear if Mr T was told 
this. I would note Mr T didnt require any follow up treatment and I havent seen any GP 
consultations about this. For these reasons, whilst the answer was inaccurate, I dont think 
Aviva can fairly say Mr T failed to take reasonable care when he answered this question.
Was it fair for Aviva to avoid the policy?
Aviva categorised Mr Ts misrepresentation as careless which the code explains covers 
anything from an understandable oversight, or an inadvertent mistake, to serious negligence. 
And I think this is reasonable given Mr T isnt in a position to explain why he gave the 
answer he did. 
Where there has been a careless misrepresentation, Aviva should look at what it would have 
done had it had the correct answer at that time. 
Aviva has said that had it been told about Mr Ts advice to reduce his alcohol consumption it 
would have obtained a GP report. Based on the details of Mr Ts medical history it would 
have received, it wouldnt have offered him cover, and this is why it avoided the policy. Having reviewed the underwriting guidance, Im satisfied that this is fair. So, whilst I 
appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to 
turn down the claim, avoid the policy and refund the premiums. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman