DRN-3109273
The complaint
Mr M has complained on behalf of Mr and Mrs K about the settlement offered by UIA 
(Insurance) Limited after they made a claim for water damage under their home insurance 
policy. Theyre also unhappy with the way the claim was handled. 
What happened
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs K made a claim to UIA after experiencing a problem with the 
electrics in their kitchen. This was found to have been caused by a leak behind their kitchen 
sink. The leak had affected the timber flooring under the sink and base kitchen units.
UIA said the kitchen units, appliances and worktops needed to be stripped out in order to 
dry the property and repair the kitchen floor. It authorised a supplier to deal with the claim on 
its behalf. The supplier said that the wall units in the kitchen werent damaged and on 7 
August it had told Mr and Mrs K that if they wanted to replace all the units, UIA would only 
pay half the cost of replacing the undamaged ones.
Mr and Mrs K obtained a quote for replacing the whole kitchen which they sent to UIA. 
Based on that in September 2019 UIA offered Mr and Mrs K £3,195 for the installation of a 
new kitchen, replacement of damaged kitchen units and a 50% contribution towards the 
undamaged units and worktops. It also offered £1,000 towards plaster removal, 
replacement of flooring timbers, electrics and new plumbing and £140 for emergency 
electrical work.
Mr and Mrs K didnt think this was enough. They said they hadnt been told that theyd have 
to pay half the cost of new wall units. They said theyd spent £17,000 on a new kitchen. 
They also sent UIA an invoice from their plumber for work that was carried out to seal off a 
defective drain where the total cost was £420 (£350 plus VAT). Mr and Mrs K said £96 (£80 
plus VAT) of the total charge was due to trace and access. They also complained about 
poor communication and delays in handling their claim.
They brought their complaint to this service. After doing so, UIA agreed to increase its 
settlement offer in some respects and Mr M raised some additional points. Since the parties 
werent in agreement, the matter was referred to me. I issued a provisional decision 
upholding the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
Since the parties have now agreed that UIA should pay £32.59 in respect of electricity 
costs and £80 plus VAT for trace and access costs, I dont need to consider those aspects 
further except that I think UIA should add interest from the date of payment to settlement.
One issue in dispute is how much UIA should pay towards replacing the undamaged kitchen 
units. The policy doesnt cover the replacement of undamaged matching items but in line 
with this services approach, UIA offered to pay half the cost of replacing these. Mr and Mrs 
K say that UIA didnt make this clear to them when the kitchen was stripped out and so the 
undamaged units were left in their garden for several months, effectively leaving them with 
no choice but to replace them.
I can see from a photo provided to us that the kitchen units were being stored in 
Mr and Mrs Ks dining room on 6 September 2019. The cupboards dont appear to have 
suffered water damage. It was around this time that Mr and Mrs K were getting quotes for a 
new kitchen.
Unfortunately this service hasnt been given a recording of the call in which UIA says its 
supplier told Mr and Mrs K that they wouldnt be able to claim the whole cost of replacement 
wall units. But I think it should have been clear to Mr and Mrs K from the fact that the kitchen 
units hadnt been disposed of that UIA was intending to reuse some of them and it follows 
from that they couldnt expect UIA to pay the whole cost of replacing the undamaged ones. 
UIA has clarified that its offer included £1,500 based on five days labour to install the new 
kitchen. I dont think UIAs settlement offer to cover the cost of replacing the base units and 
half the cost of replacing the undamaged wall units together with the installation cost was 
unfair. 
UIA says the original worktops could have been set aside and refitted since they werent 
damaged by the water leak. Its settlement offer includes half the cost of a new worktop. I 
think that was a reasonable offer. 
Its clear from photos of the kitchen after the units had been removed that the majority of the 
tiles were in an undamaged condition. The new kitchen included a splashback instead of 
tiles. UIA has since offered £300 based on the cost of replacing any tiles that were 
damaged. I think this is a fair offer as it seems likely to me that the decision to replace all the 
tiles wasnt due to the insured damage. UIA should also add interest from the date of 
payment to settlement.
Mr and Mrs Ks quote included stripping all the plaster off in the kitchen and replastering. 
UIA said that as the property had been certified as dry, further stripping out wasnt required 
as a result of the water leak. That seems reasonable to me. I accept that the walls probably 
did need replastering after the tiling had been removed. But since, as mentioned above, the 
majority of the tiles didnt need to be removed, I dont think UIA should be required to pay all 
the plastering costs. I think it was reasonable for UIA to take into account that some 
replastering might have been necessary and to include a contribution towards this cost in its 
offer of £1,000.
Mr and Mrs K claimed for the replacement of floor joists and a new timber floor. In its scope 
of works UIA had only allowed for the replacement of the floor joist directly under the sink 
and about two square metres of floor boards. I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
anything more than the work allowed by UIA was necessary as a result of the leak.
With regard to electrical work UIA said the wiring hadnt been disturbed or damaged as a 
result of the water leak. It said the water only affected low level flooring. It thought some of 
the work was required as a result of the change in the layout of the kitchen.
I think its likely that some at least of the wiring had been damaged by the water leak as the 
leak was only discovered because the electrics kept tripping. Mr and Mrs Ks electrician said 
he had to replace some damaged wiring and in order to comply with current regulations he 
had to replace undamaged wiring as well. This seems reasonable to me and I think UIA 
should reconsider this part of the claim except to the extent that any changes were made 
due to the revised layout of the new kitchen.
Mr and Mrs K have said theyve only been reimbursed for a food allowance of £10 per 
person a day from 5 August 2019 until 19 September 2019. Theyve said they believe this 
should have been paid up until 13 December 2020 as this was when the kitchen could be 
used again. But if Mr and Mrs K had opted just to replace the damaged base units and worktops rather than a completely new kitchen I think its likely their kitchen could have been 
usable again by mid-September. So Im not persuaded that UIA needs to pay any more in 
this respect.
Mr and Mrs K sent us an invoice of £281 for the supply and installation of vinyl flooring. I 
can see that this was also allowed for in UIAs original scope of works but not included in 
the cash settlement offer. UIA accepted that the replacement vinyl appeared to be a like for 
like replacement. So I think UIA should reimburse the cost of this plus interest from the 
date of payment.
Mr and Mrs K have also complained that they had to pay an excess of £250 to UIAs builder 
and a further excess of £300 was deducted from the cash settlement. The excess payable 
under their policy was £250. I can see that this was requested by UIAs builder in an email 
dated 25 July 2019. Mr and Mrs K have provided evidence that this was paid the following 
day. So I think UIA should add £300 to the cash settlement offer.
Mr and Mrs K say that UIA hasnt reimbursed them for VAT although they provided VAT 
invoices. This service generally thinks its fair for the insurer not to include VAT in the 
settlement. But wed expect the insurer to pay the VAT added on to any insured work once 
the consumer has shown theyve paid it. I can see that UIA based its cash settlement offer 
for the kitchen units and installation was based on the VAT inclusive figure. If Mr and Mrs K 
are aware of any other VAT which UIA hasnt reimbursed, I invite them to provide details in 
response to this provisional decision.  
Lastly Ive looked at how this claim was handled. I can see that there were some delays on 
both sides. In particular there was a delay of several weeks on UIAs part in approving 
Mr and Mrs Ks quotes. That led to them missing a slot with the kitchen company and 
caused them further delay. Bearing in mind that they were effectively camping out in their 
home so far as the kitchen facilities were concerned, I think UIA should pay them 
compensation of £250 for the unnecessary trouble and upset caused by this.
UIA said it agreed to pay £32.59 in respect of electricity costs, £96 for trace and access 
costs, £300 towards the new splashback, £281 for vinyl flooring, interest on the above four 
payments, £300 in respect of the excess and £250 for trouble and upset. It later agreed to 
pay £320 towards rewiring the kitchen and VAT on that amount subject to Mr and Mrs K 
providing a VAT receipt.
Mr M said there was a mathematical error in the way UIA had calculated its cash settlement 
as a result of which it owed an extra £274 in respect of this. He also thought UIA should pay 
a further £299 70 towards the replacement units and worktop, £1,800 for rewiring the 
kitchen, £225 for plumbing work, £151.20 for an electrician to fit appliances (all sums 
including VAT). He explained that the plastering and flooring work had cost £1,386.91 plus 
VAT. Taking into account the £1,000 already paid in respect of this, that meant UIA should 
pay an additional £664.29. He requested an extra £420 towards a food allowance. Lastly he 
asked for £200 VAT on the £1,000 offered for plastering and flooring and £300 VAT on the 
sum of £1,500 offered for fitting the units. He has provided VAT receipts.
We put Mr Ms detailed to submission to UIA. It agreed to pay the additional amounts 
requested by him but asked me to make it clear exactly what it should pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The only point Id make is that the plastering and flooring cost £1,664.29 including VAT. The 
parties have agreed that UIAs original offer of £1,000 wasnt enough and that it should pay 
a further £664.29. Since VAT has been included, UIA doesnt have to pay a further £200 
VAT in respect of this. I calculate that the cash settlement should be increased by 
£5,143.78. For the sake of clarity my calculation is set out below.
Item £
electricity   32.59
trace and access   96.00
splashback  300.00
excess  300.00
vinyl flooring  281.00
error in cash settlement calculation  274.00
units and worktop  299.70
rewiring 1800.00
plumbing  225.00
electrical work  151.20
further payment for replastering and flooring  664.29
food allowance  420.00
VAT on £1,500 for fixtures and fittings  300.00
Total 5,143.78
As the parties have now reached agreement, I see no reason to change my provisional 
findings save to the extent that the parties have agreed to increase the amount awarded to 
Mr and Mrs K and except for the extra £200 VAT requested by Mr M. For the sake of 
simplicity all interest should be calculated from the date of payment of the original cash 
settlement to the date of settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right I think UIA should pay Mr and Mrs K:
1. £5,143.78 by way of an increase in its cash settlement;
2. interest* on the above amount from the date of payment of its original cash settlement to 
the date of settlement; and
3. £250 for trouble and upset.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require UIA (Insurance) Limited to pay the amounts referred to in 
the section above headed Putting things right.
UIA (Insurance) Limited must pay the compensation of £250 within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs K accept my final decision (if they do accept it). 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If UIA (Insurance) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs K, it should tell them how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs K a certificate showing this if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman