DRN-3707071
The complaint
Mr B complained about Barclays Bank UK PLC. He was unhappy that he was unable to 
make a claim on a mobile phone insurance he held through a Barclays packaged bank 
account. He was also unhappy with the way Barclays then cancelled the packaged bank 
account element of his account. 
What happened
Mr B complained to us that he had been paying for some time for a Tech Pack to cover his 
two mobile phones. Mr B paid a fee each month for the Tech Pack, as an extra to his 
Barclays bank account. This provided insurance benefits for mobile phones and gadgets. 
Mr B started the Tech Pack in July 2022 and had it until it was cancelled in March 2022. 
Mr B needed to make a claim on one of the phones in 2022. When he went through the 
process of registering his phone on the insurance app, so that he could make the claim, he 
wasnt able to do this, and he discovered the handset wasnt covered. Hes been told this is 
because the handset was bigger than the maximum size permitted under the insurance, and 
also because the original purchase price was higher than permitted. Mr B says that, because 
he hasnt been able to claim, he has lost out on the repair costs for his phone. 
Mr B is also unhappy that, when he complained to Barclays, it cancelled the Tech Pack and 
gave him a refund of three months of the Tech Pack fees, saying it was a goodwill gesture. 
He says he didnt agree to the cancellation or refund. 
Barclays says it hasnt got a recording of the phone call where it says Mr B asked for the 
Tech Pack to be cancelled and agreed to the goodwill payment. 
Mr B said he wants to be refunded 11 months of Tech Pack fees. He has dated this back to 
April 2021 when Barclays changed the insurer it used for the phone cover, and changed the 
app that customers had to use for registering handsets. He says Barclays didnt tell him 
properly about that. 
When our adjudicator looked into the case, she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said the terms of the insurance about size and purchase price had been sent to Mr B by 
Barclays. She agreed there was no clear evidence Mr B had agreed to his PBA package 
being cancelled. But she thought Barclays refund of three months of PBA fees was a fair 
resolution.  
Mr B didnt agree and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to packaged bank accounts. Ive kept that 
approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I wanted to check whether the switch in insurer had changed the terms of the insurance in 
a way that affected Mr Bs 2022 claim - and whether Barclays had made clear to Mr B the 
limitations in cover at the right time. So I asked Barclays for evidence of the terms of the 
insurance back to when Mr B first took out the PBA. 
From this I can see that there were restrictions on cover depending on handset size and 
purchase price; and that this went back to when Mr B first started the Tech Pack in 2016. 
So the change in insurance supplier in 2021 didnt make any difference to the claim Mr B 
made in 2022. There were changes notified in February 2021, but these werent about 
handset size or purchase price. 
So I checked whether Barclays had made clear to Mr B, in earlier years, about the 
restrictions on handset size and purchase price. And I think it did. Ive looked at the 
annual eligibility statements Barclays sent to Mr B. Each year, these did point out the 
limitations on size and cost. Barclays did this clearly in my view, in a reasonably 
prominent place in the letter. 
So I think Barclays did enough to try and alert Mr B to the restrictions in the policy. 
I dont know enough about the details of Mr Bs claim, and whether the phone really was 
excluded by the terms of the policy. But, if Mr B thinks the insurer has unfairly turned his 
claim down, he would need to make a complaint against them, and we may then be able 
to look into it at the Ombudsman Service.
I dont have enough evidence to fairly say the bank employee was wrong to cancel the 
Tech Pack, though they do clearly seem to have thought this had been agreed  not least 
because Mr B seems to have said that the Tech Pack was no good to him if it didnt cover 
his second phone. Overall, I cant say that Barclays acted wrongly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman