DRN-1373789
 
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
handled his claim under his motor insurance policy, following an incident in November 
2018.  
What happened
In November 2018, Mr P was involved in an incident with another car when reversing his car 
on his drive. 
Mr P reported the incident to LV and made them aware that he didnt believe he was at fault. 
LV responded to Mr P to ask him for evidence such as photos of the damage to his car, so 
they could assess it. 
In December 2018, Mr Ps policy with LV was up for renewal and he took out a new policy 
with another insurer. However, he contacted LV later that month to make them aware of 
repairs he had carried out to his car following the incident. LV asked Mr P to confirm if he 
wished to make a claim for that incident but Mr P still didnt confirm this. 
Mr P then contacted LV again at the end of February 2019. He asked them to refund the 
repair costs for his car which he stated had come to £105. Mr P also made LV aware that he 
had paid the other drivers repair costs of £400 and asked them to refund that too.
LV agreed to refund the cost of repairs to Mr Ps car, less the excess of £100. This came to 
a payment of £5. Mr P then contracted LV further in regard to the costs for repairs to the 
other driver  that hed  paid. He also requested that LV pay him a further £2,000 for what he 
described as a usage value.
LV dont appear to have responded to this and so Mr P chased a response in July 2019. In 
this, he made LV aware of an incident his car had been in that day. He said that his car had 
been taken away by his current insurer. Mr P wanted LV to pay him £2,000, as he said that 
they had not dealt with his November 2018 claim and his car was now written off. 
Later that month, LV refunded Mr P a further £400 for the costs paid to the other driver. They 
asked Mr P to provide more evidence of damage caused by the November 2018 incident, to 
consider any further claim. Mr P didnt provide anything but remained unhappy and brought 
his complaint to our service to investigate. 
The investigator who looked into Mr Ps complaint, felt that LV had acted fairly and 
reasonably. She said that in refunding Mr P what they did, LV had actually gone further than 
required by the policy terms and conditions. She also didnt agree with a further complaint 
point raised by Mr P, that communications from LV had amounted to harassment. Mr P 
remained unhappy and so the complaint has been passed to me to reach a decision on.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P is unhappy with the way LV handled his claim following an incident in November 2018. 
However, from what I have seen, LV acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms 
and conditions. 
Mr Ps policy states that he must co-operate with us and provide any details of your claim 
that we may request. To help us validate and process your claim. Mr Ps policy covers the 
cost of damage caused in the incident. When Mr P made LV aware of the incident hed had, 
he was asked to provide further detail of his claim as well as evidence of the damage that 
had been caused. As Mr P didnt provide anything further, I dont think that LV did anything 
wrong in how they initially handled Mr Ps claim. 
Mr P then paid for repairs to both his vehicle and the other drivers vehicle. He has said that 
this came to a total of £505. This was despite Mr Ps policy stating that you must not, 
without our consent: negotiate or admit responsibility: or make any offer, promise or 
payment. However, LV paid Mr P £505, less the £100 excess set out in his policy. I think 
this was fair. This is the full cost of repairs according to Mr P, who hasnt provided any 
evidence of any further repairs being needed as a cause of the incident in November 2018. 
Mr P has made us aware that his car was involved in two further incidents in July 2019 and 
subsequently deemed damaged beyond economic repair. However, as LV was no longer his 
insurer by that point and there is no evidence that the incident in November 2018 had any 
impact on this, I dont agree that LV have done anything wrong. 
harassment 
Mr P has also complained that LV contacted him through a text message, asking him to call 
them back in July 2019. Mr P has stated that this communication following failed attempts to 
contact him through a phone call, amounted to harassment. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr P had made LV aware that he didnt want to be 
contacted over the phone. Im satisfied that they were attempting to resolve his complaint 
and issues as quickly as possible and I dont think they have done anything wrong in 
contacting him in this manner. 
Overall, Im satisfied that LV refunded all repair costs caused by the incident in November 
2018. This was despite not being required to under the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy. 
I also believe LV acted fairly in how they handled Mr Ps claim and communicated with him. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2020.
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman