DRN-2913201
The complaint
Mrs M complaints Unum Ltd unfairly declined her claim. 
What happened
Mrs M works for an airline and is a beneficiary of her employers income protection policy, 
provided by Unum. The policy is designed to pay a benefit after a deferred period of 26 
weeks, in the event a member is unable to work in their insured occupation, due to illness or 
injury.
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial
duties of the insured occupation, and are
Not performing any occupation
Mrs M became absent from work in May 2018. She had appointments with a GP throughout 
the deferred period, and was continually signed off work.
The GP records show Mrs M consulted in May 2018 due to an ear infection, and was 
advised not to work for one week. During the next appointment, the GP signed Mrs M off 
work until mid-June. The ear infection was still an issue, and the notes reflect Mrs M had 
discussed stresses in her personal life that were affecting her. 
In the appointment notes from mid-June onwards, stress is documented as the reason Mrs 
M remained unfit for work. The GP appointments continued on a monthly basis, and there 
were further mentions of personal stressors in Mrs Ms family life. 
The GP prescribed a low dose of an anti-depressant in June, although Mrs M has since said 
she chose not to take this as she was concerned about the medication. And at the end of 
August, the GP noted Mrs Ms intention to access Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) 
through her employee benefits. And this was referenced again at the appointment in mid-
October. 
Mrs M accessed her employers assistance program in October 2018. The notes from the 
consultation reflect Mrs M said she had been experiencing an incredible amount of stress 
due to family concerns for the prior two years, and the notes detail what these concerns 
were. 
As a result of the consultation, it was agreed Mrs M would be referred for short-term 
counselling. And the report states the referral was not urgent. 
Mrs M attended her first counselling session at the end of October 2018. The notes from the 
session reflect Mrs M had talked about how she had been feeling. And it was noted off work 
stressed family issues. In the second session in mid-November, it was noted Mrs M was 
having trouble sleeping. And the therapist stated this client is not well enough in my 
estimation to return at present. Urged her to see Occ health and GP. 
An occupational health report completed in December 2018 concluded Mrs M was unable to 
return to work at that time. It said Mrs M was absent from work due to stress, and said she 
had reported going through difficult personal circumstances. 
Mrs M submitted an incapacity claim via her employer in March 2019. The form asked Mrs M 
to describe how she was affected at work. And she included feeling overwhelmed, struggling 
to focus and complete tasks, as well as worrying about not completing them. And she said 
she experienced sleeplessness, exhaustion and brain fog. 
The deferred period had ended in November 2018, and Unum noted the claim was 
submitted late. However it decided it would still assess it. And after review, Unum declined 
the claim. It said there was insufficient medical evidence of Mrs Ms incapacity. 
Mrs M appealed Unums decision and complained.
Unum said it had reviewed all of the evidence again, but still thought it had been right to 
decline the claim. It said it accepted Mrs M had experienced psychological distress, but there 
wasnt sufficient evidence that shed experienced a mental illness that would result in her 
meeting the policy definition of incapacity. 
Unhappy with Unums response, Mrs M asked this service to review the complaint. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened. And said they didnt think Unum had acted 
unfairly. 
Unum made no comment on the investigators view. However Mrs M disagreed. In summary 
she said she didnt think the deferred period was relevant, as her employer paid her sickness 
benefits for the first six months. And she was unhappy that the GPs fit notes had been 
disputed. She also said her employer had delayed her claim and she thought she had been 
penalised for having treatment later. 
As Mrs M disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Unum has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
If I havent commented on a particular point in my decision, this doesnt mean I havent 
considered it. Im not required to comment on each and every point, but instead Im 
concentrating on the main issues in the complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it 
simply reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it.
I should also set out that Im aware Mrs M has asked that this service appoint a suitably 
qualified medical professional to review her medical evidence. However, that is not the 
function this service provides. Its my role to consider whether or not Unum has acted 
reasonably in its assessment of the evidence provided in support of Mrs Ms claim, and to 
decide whether or not this produced a fair outcome. For Mrs M to make a successful claim against the policy, she would need to demonstrate 
that she was unable to perform the material and substantial duties of her occupation, due to 
illness or injury, throughout the deferred period. And in this case, that period is from her date 
of first absence from work in May 2018 until the end of the 26 week deferred period in 
November 2018. Having reviewed the available medical evidence from that time, Im not 
persuaded Mrs M has evidenced she was incapacitated throughout the deferred period. And 
I say this for the following reasons. 
Mrs M was continually signed off as unfit for work by her GP throughout the deferred 
period. Whilst I dont dispute her GPs assessment, Im not persuaded that this 
sufficiently demonstrates she was incapacitated in line with the policy terms. 
Mrs M has stated she was required to sign a fit to fly document at work before each 
shift, and would have been unable to do so because of her symptoms. However this 
isnt the deciding factor on whether or not the claim should be paid. Mrs Ms 
employers policy sets out the definition of incapacity, and that is the test that I have 
applied when assessing whether or not the claim was declined fairly. 
Whilst I agree a mental state examination wouldnt take place during a standard GP 
appointment, I dont think it was unreasonable for Unum to question why such an 
assessment had not taken place. In a case with severe psychological symptoms 
causing an individual to be incapacitated, I think its reasonable to expect to see 
evidence of a referral to a specialist, who would carry out a further examination or 
assessment. 
Mrs M said her GP notes do not cover a referral as she accessed treatment privately. 
I note her GP suggested CBT in late August 2018. And by the next appointment in 
mid-October, Mrs M had not accessed CBT, but said she had decided to do this. Mrs 
M accessed her employee assistance program at that time. She was referred for six 
sessions of counselling, but I note the referral was recorded as non-urgent. This 
doesnt lead me to think Mrs Ms condition was considered to be severe in nature at 
that time, so Im not persuaded this referral evidences she was incapacitated in line 
with the policy terms. 
Unum has said it thinks many of Mrs Ms symptoms were associated with personal 
stressors. I dont think this was unreasonable, as Ive noted within the GP records, 
the counselling referral and notes, and the occupational health report - all from 2018 - 
various mentions of stress in Mrs Ms personal life. A letter from Mrs Ms GP states: 
off work for the past 11 months because of a stress related illness. She has had 
some significant family issues, which have caused her stress and anxiety 
Based on this evidence, I think it was fair for Unum to conclude Mrs Ms stress was 
most likely caused by personal factors, rather than an illness. 
Stress is not considered an illness, and although I accept the symptoms can be 
debilitating and can often lead to more serious mental health problems, Im not 
satisfied that was the case here, based on the evidence available. I think Mrs Ms 
symptoms were largely related to, or triggered by, personal stressors, and theres no 
cover under the policy for these circumstances. Mrs M has provided reports from a consultant psychologist relating to assessments in 
June 2019 and a series of CBT sessions which also took place in 2019. However I 
dont think these reports make a difference in this case. The relevant period is the 
deferred period from May to November 2018. In line with the policy terms, Mrs M is 
required to demonstrate that she was unable to perform the material and substantial 
duties of her occupation during that period. And the further reports she has provided 
focus on her condition some time after the end of the deferred period. 
Ive thought about whether Unum should have considered a later deferred period, 
however I still dont think that would have made a difference in the outcome of Mrs 
Ms claim. I say this because although Mrs M was diagnosed with generalised 
anxiety disorder in April 2019, the report from October that year reflects Mrs M being 
keen to return to work, but having worries about changes that had been made while 
she was away. So this still doesnt sufficiently persuade me that she would have met 
the policy definition of incapacity if a later deferred period was used. 
As Ive explained, Im satisfied by the evidence Ive seen, that Mrs M didnt meet the policy 
definition of incapacity throughout the deferred period. And because of this, I dont think 
Unum acted unfairly in declining her claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Unum Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman