DRN-2352245
The complaint
Mr P complains Vanquis Bank Limited trading as Fresh Start (Vanquis) incorrectly applied 
a default to his loan account. He says he didnt receive anything to let him know this was 
going to happen and hes now unable to move forward with his financial plans.
Mr Ps also complained about a telephone call on 10 October 2016 during which he was 
given incorrect information. I issued a jurisdiction decision in November 2020 explaining I 
couldnt look at that part of his complaint as it had been brought too late. So this decision is 
about whether the default was applied fairly only.
 
What happened
Mr P took out a loan in February 2015. The repayments were £150 for 52 months. In 
March 2016, the account passed to Vanquis as it says Mr P hadnt made the contractual 
payments. Vanquis says it sent a welcome letter to Mr P which explained the amount 
outstanding. And in August 2016 he was sent a notice of default letter and a text message 
explaining the default would be recorded on his credit file. The default was recorded on 
3 October 2016. 
Unhappy with the default being recorded, Mr P made a complaint. He didnt think it had been 
applied fairly as he said Vanquis had defaulted his account too quickly (he says after three 
missed payments) and itd applied the default to the wrong date. In response, Vanquis said 
the date of the default had been correctly reported. It said it tried to contact Mr P by phone, 
text message and letter but he didnt make any payments to the account and it was satisfied 
the correct notice had been sent. Unhappy with Vanquis response, Mr P asked our service 
to look into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Vanquis had applied the 
default correctly and had tried to communicate with Mr P and give notice beforehand. Mr P 
didnt accept our investigators view so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why. I know Mr P will be disappointed.
It seems Mr P had missed a number of payments before the account was defaulted as 
Vanquis has told us his loan was passed to it as he hadnt been making any payments. But 
he says hed only missed three payments. Either way, I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly or 
too quickly by adding the default when it did. I say this because the Information 
Commissioners Office says a default may be registered when a customer is at least three 
months behind on their payments. And from what Ive seen in, Im satisfied Mr P was.
Mr P says he didnt receive any correspondence from Vanquis to alert him to what was 
happening. But Vanquis has given us details of the dates it sent Mr P correspondence  and 
what that was. Its also given us example templates of the letters that were sent on those 
dates. I can see it sent Mr P text messages to the phone number hes given our service and 
it called him numerous times between April and October 2016. It also sent him a letter to let 
him know the account had been moved to Vanquis specialist debt purchase department and 
asking him to make a payment. And it sent him a notice of default in August 2016 which set 
out the account balance, payment due and a date to pay by. 
So overall I think Vanquis did enough to let Mr P know his account would be defaulted if he 
didnt get in touch or make an arrangement to pay. And in any event, Im satisfied he 
wouldve known he had missed payments. 
I cant see Mr P did contact Vanquis before the default was registered. And from a call 
recording weve been given, the time Mr P did return Vanquis call, he ended it immediately. 
So I think it did enough in this case to alert him to what was happening and give him a 
chance to bring his account up to date. 
Mr Ps said the default was added to his credit file on the wrong date (February 2015) and 
this wasnt applied until 20 months later. But having looked at his file, I dont agree. I can see 
it was added in October 2016 and the only place on his credit file where February 2015 is 
mentioned is the start date of his loan  which is correct.
So whilst I empathise with Mr P for the situation he now finds himself in  and that hes not 
been able to buy a home or move forward with his financial plans  overall, I dont think 
Vanquis has done anything wrong. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 January 2021.
 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman