DRN-2058799
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about the way Bank of Scotland Plc have treated them since their 
interest only mortgage term ended. Specifically, theyre unhappy the bank havent accepted 
their proposal to clear the outstanding balance, and the way theyve communicated with 
them about this. They would like the bank to waive interest on the mortgage until the balance 
is repaid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have an interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland, the term of which 
ended in 2018. They attempted to sell the mortgaged property in order to repay the balance, 
but told us they didnt receive much interest when the house was on the market. Mr and 
Mrs C later put forward a proposal to Bank of Scotland that involved a developer converting 
the property into flats, and then selling these off individually to repay the mortgage balance.
Bank of Scotland considered the proposal but eventually declined it in February 2020 as an 
acceptable way to repay the mortgage. They said that the development would increase the 
risk on the property and their security so werent willing to agree to it. However, to apologise 
for the delay in considering the proposal the bank agreed to waive the interest charged on 
the mortgage since February 2019, which they said was £67,683.72. They also gave a 
further four-week period for Mr and Mrs C to repay the full balance (then £1,214,285.39), 
before they would begin charging interest again.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs Cs property developer wrote directly to the bank with a new 
proposal. He said he would pay £900,000 in cash to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage, and would 
offer either a personal guarantee or take out a loan with the bank for the remaining balance. 
Bank of Scotland discussed the proposal with the developer, and explained that he would 
need to apply for a commercial loan for the remaining balance to be paid.
Since then Mr C has had conversations with the bank about the interest charged as he feels 
it should continue to be waived due to the impact of the pandemic. Bank of Scotland said 
theyd put a hold on taking legal action on the account in line with Government advice, and 
wouldnt pursue this until after October 2020. However they wouldnt agree to waive the 
interest as per Mr Cs request. 
Mr and Mrs C asked our service to look into things. They were particularly unhappy with the 
communication theyd received from the bank, and the stress this whole process had 
caused. Our investigator considered the complaint, and explained that she was only 
considering what Bank of Scotland had done since March 2019, as our service had already 
considered a complaint about what had happened before then. Having done so, she felt the 
bank had treated Mr and Mrs C fairly. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. They said they 
understood the reasoning behind Bank of Scotlands refusal to go ahead with the original proposal, but they think the bank should give them more time for the developer to source the 
funds he needs, and waive the interest theyre being charged in the meantime. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion so the case has been passed to 
me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Cs interest only mortgage ended in 2018, and whilst theyve tried to sell the 
property to redeem the balance  the debt remains unpaid. When Mr and Mrs C took this 
mortgage out with Bank of Scotland, they agreed to repay the whole balance in 2018, so I 
think its reasonable the bank are expecting the full balance to be repaid now that time has 
passed.
As our investigator has explained, our service has already considered a complaint made by 
Mr and Mrs C about how the bank treated them at the end of the term up until March 2019. 
So this decision will only consider what the bank have done since then, and the way Mr and 
Mrs C have been treated. 
Mr and Mrs C told us they had their property on the market for some time in order to try and 
sell it to repay the mortgage balance, but unfortunately, they didnt get much interest. So 
they changed their plan, and decided to look into converting the property into flats that could 
be sold off separately. They obtained the necessary planning permission and found a 
developer who was willing to take on the project, and let Bank of Scotland know their new 
plan. Discussions about how the mortgage would be repaid had been going on for some 
time, but from the contact notes, it looks like it was August 2019 that Mr C told the bank that 
the developer would like to sell the flats off one by one  whilst Bank of Scotland would still 
hold the legal title. Mr and Mrs Cs solicitor then followed this proposal up in writing in 
September 2019.
Bank of Scotland escalated the proposal internally to be considered by senior stakeholders, 
but it was ultimately declined in February 2020. I understand the banks concerns over 
converting the house and selling off individual flats whilst its charge on the property remains. 
If anything were to go wrong with the developments, or things were delayed for any reason  
their security would be put at risk and I think their concerns about this were justified. Im 
satisfied by escalating the proposal internally that theyve taken it seriously and given it 
careful consideration. But Im not persuaded their decision was unfair.
It did take the bank some time to communicate the outcome of their decision to 
Mr and Mrs C, which Im persuaded would have caused additional worry to an already 
stressful time for them.  But in order to apologise for this, Bank of Scotland have offered to 
waive over £65,000 worth of interest that accrued on the mortgage over the last year. 
Considering the bank were entitled to continue charging interest over this period as the 
balance remained outstanding, I think the offer made to recognise the delay is generous. As 
a result, I wont be asking them to pay Mr and Mrs C any further awards to recognise the 
trouble and upset this delay caused them.
Mr and Mrs C have asked the bank to continue to waive the interest until the mortgage is 
repaid. Theyve told us the developer is having problems due to the impact of the pandemic, 
and the interest accruing on the mortgage is causing them additional stress. I understand 
how difficult things must be for Mr and Mrs C at the moment. Their plans have been delayed 
by a situation thats outside of their control, and all the while theyre continuing to accrue interest on the mortgage that theyre not in a position to repay at the moment. So I do 
empathise with their situation and what theyre currently going through.
The developer has made another proposal, which the bank have considered. Bank of 
Scotland have told the developer, and Mr and Mrs C, what needs to happen next in order for 
this to be accepted, but unfortunately things havent moved on much since then. In the 
meantime, the bank have confirmed they wont be taking any further action to recover the 
outstanding balance until after October 2020, in line with Government advice, which is what 
Id expect them to do. Theyve said theyre not in a position to waive the interest for any 
further period than whats been agreed. I dont think this is unreasonable. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) have recognised the impact the pandemic has had 
on borrowers abilities to meet their mortgage payments, and have issued guidance for firms 
to follow to help during this time. Although I understand Mr and Mrs C havent made their 
monthly payments for some time, so the impact of COVID hasnt necessarily changed their 
ability to meet their monthly payments  more the overall balance, so its unlikely the 
temporary measures introduced would have made much difference to them.
Whilst the bank do have the option and discretion to waive the interest charged on the 
mortgage (as they have done), theres no requirement or expectation set by the regulator for 
them to do so. Mr and Mrs C have not been able to confirm a date by which they think theyll 
be able to repay the mortgage in full, and whilst I understand the reasons for this, I dont 
think its fair to ask the bank to waive interest on the mortgage indefinitely. I consider the 
offer theyve made already is generous and has taken into account Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
circumstances, so Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to ask them to do anything 
further.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the communication theyve received about this matter, and 
the fact theyve had to speak to different people in different departments. I can understand 
why Mr C would prefer to have one point of contact that he can speak to about his mortgage 
every time he needs to. But thats not the way the bank operates. Mr Cs dissatisfaction with 
having to speak to different representatives at the bank was dealt with in our services 
previous decision on his other complaint, and I cant see anythings changed since then. 
Mr C has told us about Mrs Cs heart condition, and the additional stress this is causing, but 
its not Mrs C who has been communicating with the bank. Mr C has led all of the 
communication, along with his solicitor  so Im not persuaded Mrs Cs condition means that 
Bank of Scotland should have done something differently when communicating about the 
mortgage.
Overall, Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr and Mrs C are facing at an already 
stressful time. And its unfortunate that their plans seem to have been affected by the 
pandemic. But based on everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded Bank of Scotland have 
treated them unfairly. The bank have said theyve put a hold on legal action until after 
October this year, at which point theyll review the situation before deciding next steps. I 
think this is reasonable, and I would expect Bank of Scotland to continue to take account of 
any future guidance that may be issued by the FCA, as well as Mr and Mrs Cs individual 
circumstances, before deciding what those next steps might be.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September2020. 
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman