DRN-3034530
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc declined his claim for malicious damage on his 
landlords insurance.
What happened
Mr H had landlords insurance with AXA for a property he owns and rents out. In June 2019 
he made a claim for malicious damage after the tenants left without giving notice. AXA sent 
out a loss adjuster and subsequently declined the claim. It said the damage to the property 
wasnt caused maliciously but instead was due to gradual wear and tear, and this was 
excluded from cover.
Mr H didnt think this was fair. He said he had completely redecorated the property two years 
previously. And he regularly inspected it each month. So he didnt agree that the damage 
had happened over time. He made a complaint. 
AXA didnt uphold his complaint and maintained its position that the damage was due to 
wear and tear, so excluded from cover.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be partially upheld. 
He didnt think there was enough evidence to say the damage was caused maliciously, 
however thought AXA should cover the cost of repairing damage to some of the walls under 
the accidental damage section of the policy and pay for damage caused by an escape of 
water from the bathroom. 
AXA didnt agree. It said the damage to the walls was caused by the tenants hanging 
pictures, which wouldnt meet the definition of accidental damage. Further it said there was 
no evidence of how the escape of water happened or the damage it caused as this was fixed 
and the damaged carpet removed before its loss adjuster attended. It asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the complaint came to me Ive come to a different outcome to our investigator. Ive 
written to both sides to explain that I think AXA has acted fairly by declining the claim in full, 
and give each the opportunity to provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has declined Mr Hs claim as it says the damage to his property wasnt caused 
maliciously but was instead caused by gradual wear and tear and poor maintenance, which 
is excluded under the policy. I need to decide if it has done enough to show this exclusion 
applies and if it has applied it fairly in this case. 
Ive looked at the photos and description of the damage provided in the report completed by 
AXAs loss adjuster. I can see that the damage to the property is extensive and is present in 
almost every room. However a lot of the damage shows signs of having happened over a 
period of time, rather than quickly or maliciously. For example theres evidence that areas of 
the property and appliances havent been regularly cleaned and there are signs of timber 
rotting and fittings that have become loose. These are visible in every room of the property. 
So I agree it is likely the property hasnt been well maintained.
However there are some areas of damage that could have been caused maliciously. Such 
as a number of missing fittings, doors and a carpet in one of the rooms. Mr H says these 
were removed maliciously by the previous tenants. However, these items have to be 
considered in the context of the property as a whole. And as there is significant evidence to 
show that the property was generally not well maintained, it seems most likely that these 
items were removed due to maintenance problems, rather than for malicious reasons.
Mr H has said that he redecorated the property just two years ago so the damage couldnt 
have happened over a long period of time as it had been in good condition. Weve asked 
Mr H for evidence of the redecorations and he hasnt provided anything to substantiate this. 
While I understand he may not have kept all the receipts for the work carried out, as a 
commercial property owner, Id expect there to be photos available of the flat when it was let 
after the redecorations and some evidence of payments for the work. 
Mr H has also said he carried out regular inspections of the property, and there was no 
evidence of maintenance problems before the tenants vacated. He provided the service with 
details of the managing agent of the property. While we have been able to speak to the 
agent, who confirmed the property was in a good condition, they havent been able to 
provide any reports from the visits or dates of when they were carried out. So it isnt possible 
to know what criteria the property was judged against and if there were any ongoing 
maintenance problems. So I dont think this is enough to show the property was well 
maintained, and therefore the damage didnt happen gradually. 
So in the absence of any evidence of the condition of the property prior to the tenants 
vacating, I dont think there is enough evidence to show that the damage didnt happen over 
time. I therefore think AXA acted fairly by declining the claim based on this exclusion. 
I have also considered the water damage from the bathroom. Mr H had the leak fixed by a 
plumber but hasnt provided anything from them to show what the problem was. He also 
removed the damaged carpet before AXAs loss adjuster attended. So it hasnt been 
possible for it to verify this part of the claim. And Ive not seen any evidence that there was 
any further extensive damage that would reasonably be expected if the leak had developed 
over a number of weeks since the tenant vacated. I therefore dont think Mr H has done 
enough to show there is an insured peril (something covered under the policy) and I think 
AXA has acted fairly by declining this part of the claim.
For these reasons Im satisfied that AXA has acted fairly by declining Mr Hs claim due to the 
exclusion for gradual wear and tear. So I wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
Fior the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2021.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman