DRN-3386219
The complaint
Mrs B complains that she has lost out financially due to delays caused by AJ Bell when 
transferring her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mrs B also states that AJ Bell charged her investment charges from January to April 2021 
despite the funds not being received into her new SIPP until May 2021.
Mrs B is represented by her husband.
What happened
Delay
In August 2020, Mrs B requested an in-specie transfer of her Transact SIPP to AJ Bell. AJ 
Bell acknowledged receipt of the transfer request on 25 August 2020. AJ Bell said it then 
requested SEDOL codes from Transact. SEDOL codes are used to identify the asset being 
held in the pension fund). Mrs B gave AJ Bell a list of her investment holdings with the 
SEDOL codes that same day.
Transact emailed AJ Bell on 7 September 2020 as Transact needed their discharge forms to 
be completed to give effect to the transfer instruction. Transact attached copies of the forms 
to be completed, to the email sent to AJ Bell.
AJ Bell said the forms were completed and sent back to Transact on 16 September 2020. AJ 
Bell said on returning the forms, they requested that Transact provide them with all the 
information required for them to undertake a full assessment to confirm whether the in- 
specie transfers were possible.  
Transact responded to AJ Bell on 24 September 2020. They attached the valuations for the 
pension transfers and asked AJ Bell to confirm acceptance and re-registration details. 
I understand Mrs B raised a formal complaint to AJ Bell in October 2020 as she was 
unhappy with the time it was taking for the transfer to complete.
AJ Bell responded to Transact on 3 December 2020 confirming it was possible to keep the 
in-specie holdings as listed in the email.
Transact then emailed AJ Bell on 9 December 2020 stating:
Due to a conversion of one of the assets held, please can you reconfirm your acceptance 
for the attached valuations.
AJ Bell confirmed their acceptance of the two holdings on 26 January 2021. 
AJ Bell wrote to Mrs B on 15 December 2020 as eight weeks had passed, and they hadnt 
been able to finish their investigations into her complaint and issue a final response. So, they 
wrote informing Mrs B that she had a right to refer her complaint to this service.
Transact sent a further email to AJ Bell on 2 February 2021. They said:
Please can you provide acceptance for all of the asses [sic] listed on the portfolio valuation I 
have provided
The acceptance you sent in December for the above clients pension dont all match all of 
the unit holdings we have`.
Mrs B wrote a further letter to AJ Bell addressed to the Managing Director on 23 February 
2021  six months after she had initially requested the transfer. Mrs B was unhappy that AJ 
Bell had failed to respond to Transacts emails and that AJ Bell had responded to one of 
Transacts emails on 14 February 2021 saying they would confirm acceptance as soon as 
possible, but had then placed it in a queue to be processed. Mrs B considered this 
unacceptable given it had taken six months already since the transfer request. 
AJ Bell say that Transact then emailed them on 22 March 2021 with additional requirements 
to transfer one particular fund, After further communication, Transact confirmed on 4 May 
2021 that Mrs B intended to sell that asset anyway, so the additional part of the process 
required to transfer, no longer needed to be completed. 
AJ Bell say they then requested details from Transact on 12 May 2021 to allow them to 
confirm the transfer was complete. But Transact responded a month later and there was a 
discrepancy in the transfer value. AJ Bell state that Transact confirmed in June 2021 that 
they had transferred assets and cash totalling £109,577. AJ Bell said they could see they 
had actually received £172,463.36, so they needed to go back and confirm why there was a 
discrepancy. This was resolved on 12 July 2021. 
Charges
Mrs B was also unhappy that AJ Bell had charged custody charges when the transfer 
hadnt been completed. Mrs B calculated that AJ Bell were charging her for an account 
balance of around £151,000 even though only £3,064 cash had actually been transferred 
and received into her new SIPP. Mrs B believed this to be an issue with AJ Bells IT 
systems. 
Mrs B also said that her AJ Bell SIPP Portfolio screen showed incorrect portfolio and 
transaction dates. This is because it showed £151,680 of funds that shouldve been 
transferred but those funds were still in fact with Transact. It showed the funds had been 
transferred on 3 and 26 December 2020, which wasnt the case. 
Mrs B said all this delay caused her financial loss and she was still having to pay charges to 
Transact whilst the transfer was in process. Mrs B said the reason she was transferring to AJ 
Bell in the first instance was to reduce the excessive fees she was being charged.  
Mrs Bs complaint and our investigators recommendation
By June 2021, Mrs B still hadnt received a response to her complaint, so she brought the 
complaint to our service to investigate.
AJ Bell issued their final response on 8 September 2021. They went through the timeline of 
events and apologised for the service Mrs B had received. AJ Bell acknowledged they had 
caused some delays as Transact provided them with a valuation of assets that Mrs B wanted 
transferred, but AJ Bell didnt confirm acceptance until 3 December 2020. AJ Bell received additional valuations of two assets in December 2020, but they didnt confirm acceptance 
again until 26 January 2021.
 
Regarding the custody charge, AJ Bell said they noted Mrs B purchased shares on 5 
October 2020 through her AJ Bell SIPP. A custody charge was deducted in January 2021 as 
they were holding funds on their platform. 
AJ Bell said they expect in-specie funds to be transferred within 10 to 12 weeks and 
although they didnt think they were responsible for all the delays, they recognised they had 
contributed to some. So, they offered Mrs B £250, with their apologies.
AJ Bell dont dispute that the transfer took longer than anticipated, but say they satisfied their 
requirements regarding the transfer by January 2021. And the delays after this point were 
because of fluctuating valuations, which required new assessments to be completed.
Mrs B responded to AJ Bells final response on 16 October 2021. In summary, she 
emphasised that AJ Bell charged her fees for four months for funds that hadnt yet been 
transferred. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint. 
She noted further that AJ Bell explained on its website that they were not able to give an 
exact timeframe of when the transfer would be completed as many factors were at play, 
often outside of their control. AJ Bells website said the following:
Once youve given us the details of the account you want to transfer, well take it from there 
and let you know if there are any hiccups. How long the transfer will take depends on:
Which account youre transferring. Pensions take longer to transfer than ISAs or 
Dealing accounts
How quickly your current provider gets back to us
When we receive the transfer paperwork, and whether its been correctly completed
Whether you need to pay any outstanding fees or costs to your current provider
The website said it would typically take 10-12 weeks for international shares to be 
transferred. 
Our investigator asked AJ Bell to explain why charges were deducted from January to April 
2021 when the funds hadnt been transferred and were still with Transact. AJ Bell said that 
Mrs B had already purchased an investment in October 2020, so custody charges wouldve 
applied because of this. But theyve said in-line with their Charges and Rates document, the 
funds and shares custody charges are based on investments, including those added to the 
account, but not yet settled, at month end. 
The investigator noted that the Charges and Rates document said the following:
These charges and rates are effective from 1 January 2021.
Custody charge
The funds and shares custody charges will be based on the mid-price value of 
investments in your account on the last working day of each month. This will include 
investments added to your account, but not yet settled at the month end. The 
charges will normally be collected within 20 business days of the month end.Our investigators view was that Mrs B had been correctly charged custody fees for the 
investment she had purchased in October 2020. Our investigator concluded that AJ Bells 
literature was clear that custody charges would be taken from when the investment is added 
to the account, as opposed to settled. 
AJ Bells records of Mrs Bs SIPP account transactions around the time show several 
investments being added to AJ Bells system on 3 December 2020  the day AJ Bell 
confirmed to Transact that they would be able to accept the funds. A further two funds were 
added to AJ Bells system on 26 January 2021 and three on 27 February 2021 after 
Transact sent them updated valuations. 
AJ Bell state that following their further acceptance of Mrs Bs FP Foresight Global fund, 
HSBC Global Property fund and L&G Future fund on 27 February, Transact sent a further 
email nearly a month later for additional requirements to transfer the fund she didnt then go 
on to transfer in-specie.
Our investigator acknowledged that it was unfair that Mrs B was being charged custody 
charges by both Transact and AJ Bell. Her view was however, that she couldnt reasonably 
require AJ Bell to refund the custody charges because they had acted within their terms and 
conditions.
The investigator concluded that AJ Bell werent able to provide a reasonable explanation as 
to why it had taken them two months to respond to Transacts September 2020 email to 
confirm their acceptance.. But she noted that particular delay had not led to an increase in 
custody charges as, AJ Bell only started adding custody charges to Mrs Bs account after 
they had confirmed they could accept her funds.
She further noted there was no financial loss to Mrs Bs fund value itself as it was an in-
specie transfer.
Our investigator pointed out that she could only consider the delays that AJ Bell were 
responsible for as she was not dealing with a complaint against Transact.
Overall, our investigator concluded that she couldnt fairly ask AJ Bell to take any further 
action, taking into account the offer of settlement already made.
Mrs B, through her husband, didnt accept our investigators view and asked for the 
complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. Mrs Bs complaint comes to me for a decision. 
Mr B said, on his wifes behalf, in summary:
AJ Bell started taking custodian management charges from Mrs Bs investment funds 
before they had been added to the account. Until they were added, they were in the 
custodianship of Transact. All that AJ Bell did in terms of the list of funds was add the 
name of the fund into their computer system. When they began making charges all 
AJ Bell had was a schedule from Transact of pension fund holdings.
One fund on the list was sold before it was transferred. This was because AJ Bell 
refused to follow the fund managers administration requirements, even though it had 
been prepared to follow these instructions when dealing with her husbands transfer.
Mrs B had to purchase that fund within the AJ Bell account, in order to replicate her 
holdings.
At law, and in contract terms, each fund was only added to the AJ Bell account on 
the day that each investment manager in question formally transferred the units in 
each fund from the old Nominee (the custodian of funds on behalf of the underlying client holder) which was Transact to the new Nominee, AJ Bell who from that date, 
and that date alone provided custodian services of that fund.
AJ Bell should make good the extra costs caused by the delays.
AJ Bell were chased but didnt bother to reply. Mr B also transferred his own pension 
and did not experience these delays.
Every client transferring a pension to AJ Bell must be experiencing these charges. It 
must be stopped 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mrs B was inconvenienced by the delays in transferring her SIPP, 
mainly in-specie, to an AJ Bell SIPP.
Delay
It is clear that Mrs B didnt contribute to these delays and that the period taken to give effect 
to the transfer instruction, overall, was unreasonably long. This must have been frustrating 
for Mrs B who, from what I have seen, did her best to enable the transfer to go through in a 
timely way. 
As this is a complaint against AJ Bell, I can only look at how their delay contributed to any 
financial loss Mrs B suffered or inconvenience she was caused. It is not for me to comment 
on whether or how others involved in the transfer process may have contributed to any loss 
or inconvenience caused.
I can see that AJ Bell, for the most part, accept responsibility for two main delays. These are 
between 24 September 2020 and 3 December 2020 when they were slow to confirm 
acceptance and December 2020 and the end of January 2021 when they were slow to 
confirm acceptance again. Based on what I have seen, I cant see that I can fairly hold AJ 
Bell responsible for any delay after January 2021.
AJ Bell has accepted responsibility for these delays and offered to pay Mrs B £250 
compensation for the part it played in the inevitable inconvenience she was caused here.
I consider £250 to be a fair and reasonable amount to compensate Mrs B for the 
inconvenience and upset caused. Such an award is in line with other awards made by this 
service in comparable circumstances.
In terms of Mrs Bs financial loss arising from the transfer delay, as this was mainly an in-
specie transfer, I cant see that her fund value was financially effected by the delay.
Charges
Mrs B says however, that she has ended up paying extra custody charges arising from the 
delay, as she has been required to pay custody charges for transactions that had not arrived 
in her SIPP account at the time of charge. 
Like our investigator, I sympathise with the situation that Mrs B finds herself in where 
effectively she is being charged twice, due to delays beyond her control.
Ive thought carefully about whether I can require AJ Bell to refund its charges, however I 
dont think I fairly can. In reaching this conclusion I have looked at the delays I consider that AJ Bell are responsible 
for and the terms and conditions that applied. I cant see that after AJ Bell agreed to accept 
the transfer, they can be held responsible for the delays in settling the SIPP account. It was 
whilst waiting for the account to be settled that AJ Bell commenced charging.
This service must deal with cases based on their own individual facts and circumstances, 
which I have here. In Mrs Bs case, I do not consider that the contractual provisions have 
been unfairly applied. It is for the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) to decide 
whether it has any wider concerns. I will therefore leave it to Mrs B to decide whether this is 
something she wants to draw to the attention of the regulator.
Looked at as a whole, whilst I consider that AJ Bell did something wrong, in that it 
contributed to the delays in transferring Mrs Bs pension holdings into an AJ Bell SIPP, I 
dont think I can fairly require AJ Bell to do anything more. I consider that £250 is a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation for the inconvenience caused. And I am not satisfied 
that AJ Bell is responsible for the financial loss Mrs B has suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I order AJ Bell Management Ltd to pay Mrs B £250 if it has not 
done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman