DRN-2641804
The complaint
Mr C says that after he made a claim on his motorhome premier insurance policy, Gefion
Insurance A/S unfairly withdrew its initial total loss settlement offer. 
What happened
Mr Cs converted campervan was written-off in October 2019. Gefion offered him £24,830 for
it, which he accepted. On 4 November 2019 he ceased to be its registered keeper. Gefion 
then said on 15 November 2019 that it would only be paying him £11,876. It agreed to 
consider the evidence he then produced of having spent £31,000 on the vehicle, but it didnt 
change its view. It said the valuation it had relied on was done by a qualified motor engineer.
When one of our investigators reviewed Mr Cs complaint, Gefion provided the report from 
the engineer that had first valued the vehicle. It said he made no reference to the quality of 
the conversion and didnt show how hed arrived at the valuation. A second engineer who 
reviewed the valuation found examples of professionally converted campervans for 
comparison with Mr Cs van. He concluded that the significant difference in quality was clear. 
Gefion noted that Mr C said the van and the conversion cost him over £30,000 - but it said 
the money spent on a vehicle didnt create its market value.
The investigator said Mr C had accepted the first offer from Gefion because he thought it
was fair, and that Gefion should have dealt with any concerns about it before making the 
offer. The investigator said it was hard to say whether Mr C would have chosen to keep the 
vehicle had he got the lower offer initially, but that he shouldnt lose out due to Gefions error.
Gefion said the policy stated that in the event of a claim, it would need evidence to support
the standard to which any conversion was completed. It didnt accept that the market value
of Mr Cs vehicle was £24,000. Gefion said it thought it would be right to offer Mr C
compensation for its error and suggested that £500 would be fair. The investigator disagreed
with Gefions view and said that it should also note the time Mr C had spent working on the
van. Gefion pointed out that hed said he didnt do the work himself. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I think its very unfortunate that Gefion didnt query the first engineers report earlier, as in my
view it isnt of the standard that can normally be expected of a specialist independent
engineer. I think it was fair for Gefion to point out that the engineer didnt provide any basis
on which his view could be substantiated. Although he referred to having seen the price of
advertised vehicles of the same make and model, he gave no examples of them.
In my opinion, the second engineers report was far more persuasive. He used one of the
national trade guides to arrive at a baseline retail figure for the vehicle and added to that,
based on his assessment of the conversion and condition of Mr Cs vehicle. He noted that
the conversion wasnt done professionally and didnt appear to be of a high standard. And he
found minor pre-existing damage to the vehicles interior and exterior. I think the details the
engineer set out show he was thorough in his approach.
The engineer found examples of similar vehicles for sale at a higher price than hed valued
Mr Cs vehicle at, but they were professional conversions with a superior finish, priced from
£14,995 to £19,995. Having seen the photos, I think it was fair for the engineer and Gefion to
conclude that they were of a much superior standard than Mr Cs vehicle. Later on, Gefion
provided us with a link to a firm that specialises in campervan conversions. It provided
details of a high-standard, luxury vehicle conversion, of around the same age as Mr Cs
vehicle, on sale for under £18,000.
I appreciate that many hours may have been spent converting Mr Cs van, but often the time
spent on modifications doesnt add much value to a basic vehicle. Market value is
determined (if not by the national trade guides) then by comparison with other vehicles. But
the first engineer provided no examples in support of his opinion, and Mr C doesnt seem to
have found persuasive comparators either.
I think it was reasonable for Gefion to conclude that the market value of Mr Cs van was
likely to be in line with the second engineers view. Whether it was fair for Gefion to rely on
that depends on whether it was reasonable for it to withdraw its initial offer. We dont
generally require businesses to stand by mistakes they have made, so in my opinion, it
wasnt unreasonable for Gefion to do that. I think it made a valid point about betterment. If
Mr C had been paid more than the likely market value for the vehicle, he would have been
put in a better position than the policy allowed for.
The only exception to our view about businesses being able to depart from a mistake theyve
made is when a consumer has relied on it and will suffer loss if the error is corrected. In this
case, had Gefion offered Mr C £11,876 for the vehicle initially, he may have chosen to retain
it, but there would have been a reduction of £3,325 for the salvage. He would then have had
to repair the van  which had structural damage. The engineer estimated that repairs would
cost £13,500. No doubt Mr C would have been able to have the repairs done for much less,
but I think the cost would still have been substantial. And Mr C would have been left with a
vehicle with a category S (structural) total loss marker against it. The vehicles new market
value (even if repaired to a good standard) would have been significantly affected by that.
Based on everything Ive considered to date, I dont think Mr C lost out in financial terms as a
result of Gefions error and its correction. But he faced a great loss of expectation. Gefion
thinks £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be a reasonable way to
settle the complaint. I think £750 would better reflect the effect of Gefions error on Mr C. 
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr C provided further images of 
his vans interior and other examples of vehicles he thought were similar that had been 
advertised or sold for higher prices recently. And he said hed discovered that the vans new 
owner had bought it (fully repaired) for £7,500. So Mr C thought the cost of repairing the 
damage was much less than Gefion had claimed. He said if the first engineers offer was 
being disregarded, then his assessment of the damage should be, too. He said hed never 
have agreed to Gefions offer had he not already parted with the vans ownership.
We asked Gefion to comment on the new adverts Mr C had supplied. It thought they were 
yet more examples of superior vehicles with better fittings and finish. It also said prices for 
campervans had risen significantly since its valuation was carried out, due to the pandemic.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im not persuaded by the extra evidence Mr C has provided of similar vehicles on sale 
recently for prices well in excess of the sum Gefion paid for his van. In my opinion, he hasnt 
been able to show that they werent of a higher standard or that prices havent risen. 
Mr C hasnt given us any evidence that shows the van was bought, fully repaired, for £7,500. 
Although I dont doubt what Mr C may have been told, it seems very unlikely that the van 
could have been repaired properly, and to a good standard, for around £4,000 (given that 
the salvage itself would have cost the purchaser over £3,000). That sum is less than a third 
of the cost the second independent engineer estimated for repairs. I think its possible that 
the purchaser may have compromised on quality or may have been in the trade, and so was 
to do the work personally - as well as source second-hand parts cheaply. I dont think its 
likely Mr C would have been able to do that. And I dont think hed have wanted to spend the 
minimum on repairs, given the sum hed already spent on the van. 
In my opinion, Mr C would probably have been able to have the van repaired properly, to its 
pre-accident condition, without spending the full £13,512 estimated by the engineer. But I 
dont think that sum was exaggerated. The second engineer didnt just copy the list of items 
the first engineer had set out as parts to be repaired or replaced. He prepared a detailed 
repair schedule, highlighting the various costs for replacing parts, plus painting materials and 
labour. The only reason I think Mr C could have had the work done for less is that Gefion is 
likely to have used new parts and an approved repairer (with a full guarantee). 
 
In my opinion, the parts and labour Mr C would have had to pay for are likely to have 
amounted to at least the sum hed have got from Gefion had he retained the vehicle. And the 
category S total loss marker would have remained in place, regardless of the quality of the 
repairs. I think its fair to say that the van would then have been worth substantially less than 
a similar van in similar condition. Many consumers wont even consider vehicles that have 
had structural damage repaired - and those who do will expect to pay bargain prices. So in 
the long run, I dont think Mr C lost out by being paid just under £12,000 for the van.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. I understand his point of view and his 
frustration with the sum he was paid, but I dont think Gefion acted unreasonably in that 
respect. Im still of the view that it should pay Mr C £750 for distress and inconvenience, for 
the reason stated in my provisional decision.  
         
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Gefion Insurance A/S to pay 
Mr C £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under the Financial Ombudsman 
Services rules, I must ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman