DRN-3693670
The complaint
Miss B complains that Novaloans Ltd, trading as cash4unow, lent to her when she could not 
afford it and if it had carried out all the checks it ought to have carried out then Novaloans 
would not have lent to her. 
What happened
Ms B was approved for one loan in October 2021 for £200 repayable over four instalments of 
about £81. The account remains outstanding. 
Miss B complained to Novaloans in late October 2021 and received a detailed final response 
letter (FRL) from Novaloans giving reasons why it did not think it had done anything wrong. 
Miss B referred her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in January 2022 and one 
of our adjudicators looked it. She did not think that Novaloans needed to be asked to do 
anything to put things right for Miss B. 
Miss B responded in a detailed fashion having obtained assistance from a friend or 
colleague to assist her to write what she wanted to say. Miss B had sent to us copies of her 
bank account statements and had described her circumstances in detail. 
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I have reviewed it all.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Novaloans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable 
for the consumer. 
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But that is not likely to apply here as 
Miss B took only one loan. 
Novaloans was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay her loan  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. And I have decided not to uphold it.
The FRL and the details provided by Novaloans shows me that it was comprehensive in its 
checks before lending to Miss B. It acknowledged that Miss B had a low income which, 
despite it being her first loan application for a relatively small sum (£200) and as a new 
customer, prompted Novaloans to make additional checks. 
Novaloans carried out a credit search. We have not received a copy of those search results 
but they were summarised in the FRL, a copy of which we have received. 
Ultimately, I consider that for a small first loan the checks Novaloans carried out were 
proportionate and I do not consider that it lent to Miss B irresponsibly.
I have gathered from Miss Bs comprehensive submissions sent to us since the adjudicator 
formulated her view, that Miss B has been in debt for a while and she is clear that this 
Novaloans loan ought not to have been lent. 
Miss B sent to us her copy bank statements for the months leading up to and a bit beyond 
the loan date  October 2021. I make it clear that I would not have expected Novaloans to 
look at any copy bank statements for a first loan of this kind and this amount. It would have 
been disproportionate. But as I had them I reviewed them. 
And I can see that Miss B was spending a great deal of money  sometimes as much as 
£285 a day (1 October 2021)  on non-essential spending such as betting and gaming 
transactions. And it may be that these transactions could be part of the reason for Miss B 
having such awful financial troubles and not being able to pay Novaloans the amount she 
owed to it. I appreciate that this must have been difficult, but unless Miss B informed Novaloans about 
this element of her spending then I am not able to consider that Novaloans would have, or 
ought to have, known of this. I have seen nothing in the documentation which suggests that 
Novaloans did know of this element. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Miss Bs application was considered properly and proportionate 
checks were carried out.
The loan remains outstanding and I remind Novaloans of the need to approach Miss B about 
the debt in a positive and sympathetic manner.  
I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman