DRN-4329719
The complaint
Mr A complained because National Westminster Bank Plc initially refused to refund him for 
transactions which he said he hadnt authorised. He was also unhappy about the service 
hed received, and he wasnt satisfied with the £600 compensation which NatWest paid him.
What happened
Mr A contacted NatWest on 27 February 2023 about transactions that day which he said he 
didnt make. The transactions he disputed were for £950, £900, £1,800, £1,500 and £3,500. 
The last two of these had involved transactions from accounts in Mr As own name, to other 
accounts in Mr As name, also with NatWest. 
Mr A rang again on 28 February and was told that his claim had been declined. NatWest 
confirmed this in writing, saying that Mr As correct PIN had been entered at the first attempt. 
So whoever carried out the transactions knew Mr As PIN. NatWest also said that it hadnt 
seen any of the typical fraud patterns on his account which it would expect to see. So it 
didnt uphold Mr As complaint, and advised him to change his PIN and not to disclose it to 
anyone. It pointed out that the account terms and conditions said that customers had to keep 
their card secure at all times and not disclose their PIN.   
Mr A complained. He rang on 1 March, asking why NatWest hadnt looked at CCTV at the 
branches where the transactions had taken place. The adviser said that this would have to 
be done through the police, and Mr A said hed contacted Action Fraud. NatWest said that 
Mr A would need to get Action Frauds confirmation that it had retrieved the CCTV footage, 
and he should then get in touch again. Mr A also asked why a second card had been issued 
on the account, because this was the card on which the transactions had been carried out, 
but the adviser said she couldnt see why a replacement card had been sent out.
On 2 March, NatWest accepted that some transactions had been fraudulent and it refunded 
Mr A for the £1,800 transaction. It also refunded the £900 and £950 transactions, totalling 
£1,850, on 3 March. 
On 3 March, NatWest issued its final response letter. Mr A had raised seven points and 
NatWest replied that:
- It upheld his complaint about NatWest declining his claim, and said it had refunded 
him. It said, however, that if he raised a claim of fraud in future, the same decision 
might not be made;
- It didnt agree that the NatWest branches had allowed funds to be withdrawn without 
identification, because the transactions had been carried out using chip and PIN, and 
a driving licence;
- It upheld his complaint that NatWest had ordered a new card leaving his current card 
as active; that there had been a poor attitude from one of the fraud agents; and hed 
been given incorrect information when hed been told there could be multiple cards 
on an account;
- It didnt agree that Mr A hadnt receive a text alert when a new card had been issued, 
and said a text was sent on the day the card was dispatched to Mr As registered 
address, but the text had been recorded as delivery failed despite being sent to Mr 
As correct mobile number. It suggested Mr A should contact his mobile provider. 
NatWest also explained that the person making the transaction, with the card and 
driving licence, had made an appointment to see the branch manager, and said that 
the fraudster would have agreed to this offer in order to avoid suspicion.
NatWest apologised for the elements of Mr As complaint which it had upheld, and paid him 
£600 compensation.
Mr A wasnt satisfied. He sent a long reply to NatWest. His points included pointing out that 
the transactions had taken place at multiple branches which were around 160 miles from his 
registered home address, which he said should have been flagged. He wanted to know what 
action would be taken against the fraud investigator who initially dismissed his claim, and 
wanted to know what security precautions NatWest would implement from this incident. Mr A 
said he didnt feel £600 was a reflection of the impact this had had on him.
Mr A contacted this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr As complaint. He recognised that Mr A had been without 
his funds for four days, and that hed been given incorrect information about whether an 
account could have two active cards at once. But he considered that £600 fairly reflected Mr 
As distress and inconvenience, and explained that it was in line with our approach to this 
type of complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He exchanged several emails with the investigator. Mr A disagreed with 
the amounts in dispute, saying that £12,100 had been taken from his accounts, and the 
refunds had taken longer than four days, being taken on 27 February and refunded on 9 
March. The investigator sent Mr A copies of the statements wed been given which backed 
up the investigators figures. But Mr A said there were other accounts from which money had 
been taken. He said that if £600 was fair compensation for £3,650 of disputed transactions, it 
couldnt be fair if the disputed transactions totalled £12,100. Mr As complaint was referred to 
me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Ill clarify the amounts which this decision covers, because Mr As response to the 
investigators view was that the amount in dispute was £12,100, not the figures given in the 
investigators view. 
The evidence which Ive seen shows that the disputed transactions were, as Ive set out 
above, for £950, £900, £1,800, £1,500 and £3,500. The last two of these involved 
transactions from accounts in Mr As own name, to other accounts in Mr As name, also with 
NatWest. As the money was moved to other accounts in Mr As name, there was no financial 
loss. 
Im aware that even including the last two of these, the total is different from Mr As figure of 
£12,100. But this service can only consider issues which consumers have previous raised 
with the financial business, to give it a chance to sort things out before bringing a complaint 
to us. Here, in fact, the 3 March final response letter relates only to the first two transactions, 
totalling £1,850. But Ive considered the five transactions Ive listed above. 
It would be very unusual for a third party fraudster to move money to another account in the 
customers name. But in any case, as there was no financial loss to Mr A for those transactions, the relevant disputed transactions which Ive considered in this decision are 
those for £950, £900 and £1,800.
As the transactions have been refunded, the issue for me to consider isnt about liability for 
the disputed transactions, but whether NatWests £600 compensation is fair and reasonable, 
or whether it should pay Mr A more for distress and inconvenience. 
Fraud always causes considerable upset and worry and inconvenience to those affected, 
and Mr A has described how he went through an ordeal mentally and emotionally, and had 
to take days off work to try to sort out the mess, including visits to his local branch. In these 
situations, the main responsibility for distress and inconvenience lies with the fraudster, 
though unfortunately they cant be traced to provide compensation. But I have considered 
what distress and inconvenience could be attributed to NatWest, as opposed to the unknown 
fraudster.
- NatWest initially rejected Mr As 27 February claim that transactions had been 
fraudulent. It reviewed this and changed its mind within a few days, starting the 
refunds on 2 March, but I accept that even those few days would have been 
upsetting for Mr A. 
- NatWest also gave Mr A incorrect information about having multiple cards on one 
account. It also isnt clear to me why a second card was issued on Mr As account. 
Apart from renewals, this normally only happens if an account holder requests a 
replacement, for example online. Here, Mr A said he didnt request the card. Its not 
clear, from the evidence I have, why a second card was issued but Mr As original 
card wasnt cancelled. NatWest hasnt been able to provide evidence about how this 
second card was ordered, so I cant tell whether Mr As online banking had been 
compromised, or how else this had happened. In the absence of such technical 
evidence, I find that NatWest shouldnt have issued the second card, at least without 
stopping Mr As existing card. If Mr As online banking had been compromised and 
thats how the second card was ordered, stopping Mr As existing card would have 
alerted him as soon as he next tried to use it. Here, however, Mr A became aware of 
the disputed transactions very promptly  on the day they took place. So failing to 
stop Mr As existing card didnt in practice make any difference to the speed with 
which the disputed transactions were blocked.
  
- Ive listened to the call recordings provided, and I agree that one of the call handlers 
didnt provide the service which NatWest would expect from its call handlers. Mr A 
told NatWest that he wanted to know what actions would be taken against that 
employee. Ive taken the poor service into account in deciding compensation, but I 
dont require NatWest to inform Mr A about any actions it may have taken in regard 
to that employee.
- Mr A also told NatWest that he wanted to know what security precautions NatWest 
would take from the incident. Banks dont have to disclose their security measures, 
and in any case doing so would lessen the security, so I dont require NatWest to 
inform Mr A about this.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that £600 compensation is fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to pay Mr A. It has already paid this to him, so I do not uphold Mr 
As claim for a higher amount of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman