DRN-4013553
The complaint
Mrs S complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide her late 
husband with sufficient information when he purchased an annuity from the firm in 
April 2014. She says that, as a result, her late husband purchased an annuity without 
dependents benefits so leaving her without that income following his death. 
What happened
Mrs S has been assisted in making this complaint by a family member. But for ease, in this 
decision, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mrs S 
herself. The complaint relates to the sale of an annuity to the late husband of Mrs S. In this 
decision I will refer to Mrs Ss late husband as Mr S.
Mr S held pension savings with Prudential. In 2014 he used those pension savings to 
purchase an annuity from the firm. The annuity that he purchased did not provide any 
dependents benefits. Mrs S has complained that Prudential failed to provide sufficient 
information to Mr S about that annuity. She says it is clear from the paperwork that Mr S 
completed at that time that he intended to purchase an annuity that provided benefits for her 
following his death. So Mrs S complained to Prudential about that had happened.
Prudential thought that it had sold Mr S the annuity that he had requested  on a single life 
basis. But it agreed that, like a number of other customers around that time, it had failed to 
give Mr S enough information about the availability of enhanced annuities for those suffering 
from certain health conditions. So it looked at whether Mr S might have been able to buy an 
enhanced annuity, and paid some compensation for the difference in the annuity rate he 
could have received. And Prudential failed to handle Mrs Ss complaint as well as it should 
have  for example it sent its response letter to the wrong address. So it paid Mrs S £600 for 
the inconvenience shed been caused.
But Mrs S didnt agree that her late husband had chosen a single life annuity, so she brought 
her complaint to us. The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She 
thought that the evidence Prudential had provided confirmed that Mr S had been sold the 
annuity that hed chosen. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs S and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I was very sorry to hear of the death of Mr S and hope that Mrs S will accept my 
condolences. But since Mr S is unable to provide us with his testimony about what happened 
when the annuity was sold in 2014, I must base my findings on the documentary evidence 
that has been provided from the time.
Prudential holds a note of a phone call that it had with Mr S in 2019 when it was first 
reviewing whether he had been given enough information about enhanced annuities. At that 
time Prudential had asked Mr S to complete a lengthy form about his circumstances. Mr S 
advised Prudential that he found completing forms to be difficult, and preferred to discuss 
matters over the phone. And I have seen that when Mr S applied for his annuity there were 
some errors in the information he initially sent to Prudential. So that would lead me to 
conclude that Mr S might not have been entirely comfortable in the complex decisions he 
needed to make in 2014 about the form of the annuity he wished to purchase.
Prudential sent Mr S a number of quotations in the lead up to his retirement date and 
subsequent annuity purchase. Those quotations were given for both an annuity providing 
dependents benefits, and those on a single life basis. But I think it is important to note that, 
initially, the dependents quotations were based on assumed details for Mrs S. But, later in 
the process, Mr S provided information about Mrs Ss date of birth, allowing Prudential to 
provide more specific information about the pension benefits that would be available.
So, at the time he needed to make his decisions about the annuity purchase, Prudential had 
provided Mr S with information about both types of annuity  those with, and without, 
dependents benefits. And I think it is important to be clear at this stage that Prudential 
wasnt providing Mr S with any advice about the decision he needed to take. So it simply 
needed to provide Mr S with clear, fair, and not misleading information about his choices.
I think it is entirely possible that Mr S intended for the annuity to provide benefits for Mrs S 
should she survive him. He had requested quotations on a joint life basis, and provided 
details about Mrs S for those quotations to be issued. But I dont think I can reasonably 
expect Prudential to form the view that a consumer requesting joint life quotations is 
committed to that course of action. Mr S also requested, and received, quotations on a 
single life basis. Those quotations would have naturally provided a higher annuity income. 
So it is also possible, and not unreasonable, that Mr S might have preferred to take his 
annuity in that form.
In order for Mr S to purchase the annuity he needed to send a signed declaration to 
Prudential. When that form was first returned, Mr S had neglected to sign it. And he hadnt 
specified which of the various quotations that Prudential had issued was his choice. So 
Prudential sought further information from Mr S, first unsuccessfully by telephone, and later 
by letter. He then sent the signed form back, along with a copy of one of the quotations that Prudential had previously sent him. I dont think it unreasonable that Prudential took the 
inclusion of that quotation to indicate that was the one that Mr S wished to be put into 
payment.
The declaration signed by Mr S was dated 6 April 2014. And as Ive said above it was sent 
along with a copy of one of the single life quotations Prudential had provided. But Prudential 
also holds another form completed by Mr S that says it would be used to provide 
personalised pension quotes. The date that form was completed appears to have been 
altered, but reads 19 April 2014. So it would seem to suggest the form was returned to 
Prudential after Mr S had accepted the quotation two weeks earlier.
That form asked Mr S five questions that would lead to different quotations being generated. 
One of those questions was whether Mr S wanted benefits to be paid to Mrs S after his 
death. He answered that question as Yes, and provided Mrs Ss date of birth.
I dont know why this form was completed around two weeks after Mr S had accepted the 
quotation from Prudential. It is possible, since its receipt by Prudential hasnt been date 
stamped, that the date of signature on the form is incorrect. But even if the signature date 
were correct, Im not persuaded that Prudential should have reasonably considered it to 
indicate that Mr S had changed his mind about the annuity he purchased two weeks earlier.
Sadly, given the passage of time, it is impossible to know with any degree of confidence 
what Mr Ss intentions were when the annuity was purchased. But I am satisfied that he 
gave a reasonable indication to Prudential that he had chosen a single life annuity to be put 
into payment. I think that the information Prudential would have sent Mr S about the different 
payment options would have clearly shown the difference in the annuity amounts caused by 
adding dependents benefits. So I dont think that Prudential did anything wrong.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mrs S, at what no doubt remains a 
difficult time. But I am unable to fairly say that Mr S gave Prudential any reasonable grounds 
on which it should have concluded he wished to purchase a joint life annuity. So I dont think 
this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman