DRN-4141189
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with a claim 
he made for storm damage to his home. 
Mrs S is representing Mr S in the complaint. 
What happened
Mrs S reported damage to their home in December 2021 following a named storm. 
Between May 2022 and October 2022 Admiral responded to complaints Mrs S raised. 
It upheld her complaints about failing to provide updates, providing a poor service, and not 
dealing with the claim as well as it should have. It paid a total compensation amount of 
£1,050 during this time. 
Mrs S remained unhappy as she said Admiral hadnt properly considered her claim for the 
damaged shed, for contents and damaged windows. 
Our Investigator thought the compensation Admiral had paid was fair for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. And he thought the cash settlement for a replacement shed at 
£2,002.48 (minus the excess) was fair. 
He thought Admiral should cover the claim for a damaged lawnmower - which Admiral had 
rejected - as the policy provided cover for domestic gardening equipment in the policy 
wording. 
Admiral told the Investigator it would replace the lawnmower subject to Mrs S providing 
quotes for a like for like replacement. 
Mrs S remained unhappy as Admiral had failed to reimburse her for the costs to replace two 
windows and beading, consider her claim for contents from the shed that were damaged, or 
pay her a settlement for the shed damage. 
Admiral didnt respond to the Investigators request for confirmation on the above points. So 
the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the handling of this claim by Admiral and its appointed Loss Adjuster has been 
unreasonable. Mrs S provided a quote for replacement windows two weeks after submitting 
her claim in December 2021 - but as far we are aware Admiral hasnt met this part of her 
claim despite agreeing it would on 20 March 2022 when responding to one of Mrs Ss 
complaints. 
Admiral initially declined Mrs Ss claim for a replacement shed - and agreed to cover only the 
repairs to the roof. But Mrs S was unable to get the roof repaired - and so Admiral has 
agreed to meet the costs to replace the shed. I think the settlement it has offered for a 
replacement shed is fair. 
If Admiral hasnt already done so, it should prioritise considering Mrs Ss claim for the 
remaining contents. This issue has been outstanding despite Mrs S providing Admiral with 
photos and an itemised lists of damaged contents. 
Admiral has paid Mrs S a total of £1,050 compensation for its delays and poor service in the 
handling of her claim. I think its clear that the claim could have been resolved much sooner - 
but I think the compensation is within the range we would award for the poor service and the 
length of time the poor service has gone on for - up to 27 October 2022. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
Settle Mrs Ss claim for a replacement shed by paying a cash settlement of 
£2,002.48 (minus the excess due under the claim).
Settle Mrs Ss claim for replacement damaged windows and beading in line with 
the estimate provided in December 2021. If Mrs S needs to obtain a revised 
quote due to the time that has passed, Admiral should meet the reasonable costs 
of the updated quote as the delay isnt Mrs Ss fault. 
Prioritise the consideration of Mrs Ss claim for the remaining contents including 
replacement costs for the lawnmower. Within this part of the claim Admiral should 
put Mrs S back in the position she would have been in before the damage took 
place. So this includes any dismantling and removal of debris. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman