DRN-3052473
The complaint
Mr L says HFC Bank Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr L bought the policy in 1995 at the same time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive concluded that Mr Ls PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below: 
   Mr L says that after he completed his postal application for the credit card HFC 
contacted him by phone and said he had to take the cover to get the card he wanted. 
Ive noted everything Mr L has said.
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr L and 
HFC when the policy was sold. HFC hasnt been able to provide much 
documentation from the point of sale, which isnt surprising given the amount of time 
thats passed. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty five years 
ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive seen a sample of the credit card application Mr L wouldve had to complete to 
apply for the card. There is nothing on the form to suggest that buying the PPI was a 
condition of getting the credit card. On balance, I think its unlikely HFC wouldve 
added the PPI to Mr Ls account if he hadnt agreed to buy it. So without anything 
else to support what Mr L has told me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that 
HFC didnt make him aware the PPI was optional. 
HFC didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. 
Its possible the information HFC gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mr L would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
This means HFC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But HFC has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
HFC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about that. Because HFC didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HFC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HFC Bank Limited does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L. 
But HFC Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman