DRN-2795603
The complaint
Mr M complains Barclays Bank UK PLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M took a loan of £5,000 with Barclays in 2017. The loan defaulted in 2018 and a
repayment plan was put in place.
In 2020 Mr M complained to Barclays. He thought the loan shouldnt have been offered to
him because he was suffering from mental health issues and had a gambling addiction at the
time. He also says he was receiving Job Seekers Allowance (JSA) and had a poor credit
record.
Barclays said it wasnt aware of Mr Ms mental health issues at the time, he didnt tell them 
about this until after hed taken the loan at which time it took steps to help him. It also said 
that the gambling transactions on his account werent considered excessive and that a credit 
search was completed prior to the loan being agreed.
Barclays did accept that it hadnt noticed that he was in receipt of JSA at the time and had it
known this it wouldnt have agreed to the loan. Because of this, it agreed to refund all
interest which had been applied to the loan and used this to reduce the amount he owed.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and referred the complaint to us. He wanted Barclays to remove
the default from his credit file and write off the remaining balance of the loan.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He thought Barclays offer was fair and
didnt ask it to do anything further. Mr M didnt agree. He said Barclays was aware of his
mental health issues prior to the loan being agreed. He still thought his credit history and
gambling problems shouldve prevented the loan from being agreed. He maintained that the
default should be removed from his credit file and asked for the complaint to be reviewed
again. 
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me. I didnt think what Barclays had done went far enough 
to put things right. So, I issued a provisional decision and asked both parties to submit any 
further comments to me. In that provisional decision I said:
I agreed that Barclays was entitled to accept the information Mr M had provided 
when assessing his loan application without requiring further evidence.
That Mr Ms credit file didnt show he was struggling to manage other debts.
That Mr Ms bank statements didnt show that he was gambling excessively to alert 
Barclays to any problems.
However, I also noted that Barclays had agreed that had it realised Mr M was receiving JSA, 
it wouldnt have agreed to his loan. It said its systems didnt pick this up and its since taken 
steps to make sure this doesnt happen in the future.
Given that Barclays agreed that the loan shouldnt have been granted, I explained what I 
thought Barclays should do to put things right. I said:
Our usual approach in cases where we agree that funds shouldnt have been lent is to ask a
business to refund the interest charged and any charges applied to the loan together with
8% simple interest. Barclays has confirmed its refunded all interest, but its unclear whether
any charges have been refunded or whether interest was added to this refund. Had Barclays
not lent Mr M the money, he wouldnt have incurred the interest and charges, so I think its
fair that the interest and charges he paid on the account be refunded together with 8%
interest.
As Mr M has benefitted from the funds, I dont think it would be fair for me to say Barclays
should write off the balance. But it does need to agree an affordable repayment plan for Mr
M to repay the remaining balance. Mr M should engage with Barclays in this regard.
Mr Ms main concern seems to be the fact that this is showing on his credit file. Barclays
says that this is right as he agreed to borrow the money, and its important that his credit file
is an accurate reflection of how he has conducted his account. Whilst this is correct, its been
agreed that the money shouldnt have been lent in the first place. And had it not been, then
this wouldnt be having an adverse effect on Mr Ms credit file. So, I think in the
circumstances Barclays should also remove any adverse information reported to Mr Ms
credit file as a result of this loan up to the date of this decision. Going forward, should Mr M
not comply with the repayment plan set, then this new information can be recorded on his
credit file.
I provisionally decided Barclays should:
Refund all interest and charges applied prior to it defaulting to the loan which it hasnt
already refunded
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the interest or charges were
applied to the date they are refunded
Barclays may use any refunded amount to reduce the amount Mr M owes on the
remaining balance of the loan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this
loan.
Mr M accepted my findings and agreed to work with Barclays to repay the loan in an 
affordable manner. 
Barclays said it agreed in principle to my findings. However, it said it would need to close 
down Mr Ms loan and open a new one before it could clear Mr Ms credit file. It said Mr M 
would need to make three consecutive monthly payments in order to prove this was 
affordable. It also proposed that, rather than calculate the interest refund at 8%, it reduce the 
loan balance from £3,105.58 to £3,000, which it thought would be similar to calculating the 
refund due.
Now that both parties have responded, the complaint has been passed back to me to issue a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said it plans to close Mr Ms old loan and set up a new debt restructuring loan and to do so it would need to see a track record of Mr M making monthly payments. 
However, this isnt what my provisional decision suggested it do. 
As Ive explained, Barclays agreed Mr M shouldnt have been given this loan. Because of 
this, Barclays needs to arrange an affordable way for Mr M to repay the balance without 
further interest being incurred. Any new arrangement for repaying this loan shouldnt be 
dependent on Mr M passing an affordability assessment. But instead needs to be set up 
based on what Mr M can reasonably afford to pay each month.
If Barclays needs to close down the old loan and set up a new one for administrative 
reasons, then I see no issue with this. But this should be done from a purely administrative 
purpose. There shouldnt be any need for an assessment of Mr Ms circumstances in 
agreeing this. It should simply be set up and agreed. Any assessment of Mr Ms income 
needs to focus solely on how much Mr M can afford to pay back each month.
Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt told me how much of a refund Mr M would receive if it did 
calculate things correctly. So, its not possible for me to say whether the offer to reduce the 
loan amount to £3,000 is fair or not. Because of this, Im still going to tell Barclays to pay 8% 
simple interest on the refunded interest and charges from the date the interest or charges 
were applied to the date they are refunded. I still think its fair for Barclays to use this to 
reduce the amount owed by Mr M. 
Having reviewed everything again, including both parties responses to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I require Barclays to:
Refund all interest and charges applied prior to it defaulting to the loan which it hasnt
already refunded
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the interest or charges were
applied to the date they are refunded
Barclays may use any refunded amount to reduce the amount Mr M owes on the
remaining balance of the loan.
Agree an affordable and sustainable repayment plan with Mr M to repay the loan 
balance which isnt dependent on Mr M passing a new affordability assessment.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the 
original loan.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman