DRN-3729321
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds) declined his income 
protection claim. 
What happened
Mr S has an income protection policy. The underwriter of the policy is Shepherds. 
Mr S stopped working in April 2021 due to stress, depression and anxiety and therefore 
submitted a claim under his policy. Shepherds declined the claim on the basis that Mr S 
wasnt in employment at the time his incapacity occurred.
Unhappy with the response from Shepherds, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and didnt uphold the complaint. She concluded that as Mr S 
wasnt in paid employment or earning through self-employment at the time the incapacity 
occurred, he didnt meet the requirements of the policy terms and conditions. Therefore, she 
didnt think Shepherds had acted unfairly in declining Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the policy terms and conditions as this forms the basis of Mr Ss 
contract with Shepherds.
On page 5 of the policy document, it states
2. Incapacity
2.1 For the purposes of the contract between you and us, you suffer from an 
incapacity and are incapacitated if you are not fit and able to work in your own 
occupation as a result of physical or mental illness or injury, provided such physical 
or mental illness is not self-inflicted, and provided it does not arise out or in 
connection with, and is not aggravated by, any of the following...
On page 7 of the policy document, it states:
6. Payment of Benefits
6.2 Loss of Income.
You must be engaged in paid employment or earning through self-employment when 
the incapacity starts and you must suffer a complete or partial loss of income as a 
direct consequence of not being fit and able to work in your own occupation. If you 
are not in paid employment or earning through self-employment when incapacity 
starts, you may instead qualify for House Persons Benefit, if you meet the 
requirements of that benefit. (See Section 18, House Persons Benefit). If you do not 
suffer a loss of income from your employment or self-employment, you will not be 
entitled to any benefits under the plan.
On page 16, it states
18. House Persons Benefit
18.1 You must be engaged in paid employment or earning through self-employment 
at the date of applying for the plan, and you must be engaged in paid employment or 
earning through self-employment when any incapacity starts. You must suffer a 
complete or partial loss of income as a direct consequence of not being fit and able 
to work in your Own Occupation in order to be entitled to claim Benefits under the 
plan. However, if you become unemployed, a house person or a student during the 
term of your policy and you subsequently become incapacitated, you may still be 
able to claim 50% of your chosen level of Benefits up to a maximum of £1,500 per 
month. This is known as House Person Benefit and will be paid for a maximum of 12 
months.
18.2 Your chosen Waiting Period will still apply. Once this Waiting Period has 
expired, we will pay House Persons Benefit if and for so long as, without any 
assistance of another person, you are unable to perform three of the following five 
Activities of Daily Living (ADLs) as a direct consequence of your Incapacity, provided 
the inability to perform any ADL occurred after the start of the plan:
1. Walking: the ability to walk 200 metres on a level surface without having to stop.
2. Bending: the ability to bend or kneel to pick up something from the floor and 
straighten up again.
3. Writing: the physical ability to either write legibly using a pen or pencil, or to type 
using a desktop personal computer keyboard, whether or not you owe one.
4. Climbing: the ability to climb up a flight of stairs and down again, with or without a 
suitable rest, using one or both handrails if required.
5. Communicating: the ability to answer the telephone and take a message, whether 
or not that message is written down.
Based on the above, Mr Ss policy is designed to pay a benefit due to incapacity through 
illness or injury. To receive a benefit, Mr S must be in paid employment when the incapacity 
starts, and the illness must be the direct cause of the loss of income. The policy doesnt 
provide cover for loss of employment but for ill-health related loss of income. This is a 
common requirement in most, if not all, income protection policies as they are designed to replace an income. 
So, while cover is available under the policy, the requirement is for the insured to be in paid 
employment when the incapacity starts. 
Has the claim been declined fairly?
Im not a medical professional. In order to reach any decision on whether the claim has been 
considered in line with the policy terms and conditions, it is necessary for me to rely on the 
information provided, which amongst other things include the GP records provided by Mr Ss 
GP. 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence available, and I can see Mr S contacted Shepherds 
in late July 2021/early August 2021 to inform it that he had not been in paid work since April 
2021. Notes from his GP records show that he went to see his GP in July/August 2021 and 
was experiencing stress, depression, anxiety, tiredness, muscular pain and sleep 
deprivation. His GP provided a note at this point to say that Mr S was unfit to work. Mr S 
confirmed he had resigned from employment in April 2021, which was before the onset of his 
incapacity in July 2021.
Based on the information available, I dont think Mr S meets the requirements of his policy 
terms and conditions. This is because at the time Mr S made his claim in July/August 2021, 
he had already stopped working and wasnt in paid employment. Im not persuaded therefore 
that Shepherds has declined his claim unfairly or unreasonably.
House Persons benefit
I understand Shepherds has mentioned in its final response to Mr S that he may be eligible 
to make a claim under the House Persons benefit on the policy. Shepherds has looked into 
whether Mr S is covered under this part of the policy terms and conditions. However, it said 
the claim would be declined on the basis that Mr S hasnt provided any medical evidence to 
show he couldnt fulfil three out of the five activities listed under this section of the policy. 
Im unable to unfortunately comment on whether this is fair as this doesnt form part of the 
original complaint made by Mr S. Should Mr S have any questions relating to this part of the 
claim, he should contact Shepherds directly. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Shepherds hasnt declined Mr Ss 
claim unfairly or unreasonably. And I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon 
which I could fairly ask Shepherds to accept Mr Ss claim. It follows that I dont require 
Shepherds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against The Shepherds 
Friendly Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman