DRN-4025593
The complaint
P complains about Probitas Fedelis Limiteds (Probitas) failure to return funds that they were 
holding on its behalf. 
In bringing this complaint P is represented by its director who I refer to as Mr K
  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so, I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly, Mr K has told us that:
P held an account with Probitas which contained funds belonging to its clients. 
In April 2022, P submitted a request to Probitas to withdraw the full amount of EUR 
74,900.
As its request hadnt been dealt with promptly, P contacted the Business 
Development Manager at Probitas to see whether he could help. But P received no 
meaningful response. 
On 5 July 2022, Probitas wrote to P to say that it intended to close Ps account: as 
services are no longer provided. 
Probitas said that in order for them to close Ps account, part of their closing down 
procedure was such that they required a fully updated Know Your Customer (KYC) 
check to be completed on P. So, they asked P for various items of information 
including:
oA Certificate of Incorporation
oMemorandum and Articles of Association 
oProof of Address.
In addition, Probitas explained that P needed to provide them with a EUR account in Ps 
name or local GBP account so that the account balance could be returned to it. They also 
said they were looking to finalise the process as soon as possible.  
On 20 July 2022 P wrote to Probitas enclosing the documents theyd asked for to complete 
the KYC and closure process and return its funds. 
On 25 July 2022 Probitas acknowledged receiving the documents and added that: the bank 
will return the funds directly to you after they review the documents. 
But to date the funds have not been returned. And on querying the reasons for the delay, on 
8 August 2022 Probitas told P that:
it's the bank that holds your funds 
Giving details of the bank in question Probitas added: 
The bank requested KYC for your company for review. We provided it to the bank and they 
are still reviewing it. The issue is that they are taking ages to finish the checking process and 
release the funds. As we agreed please ask directly to the bank what is happening.
The bank referred to is Probitas bank. In response to their suggestion P told Probitas it was 
their responsibility to communicate with their bank and revert to P.
As Ps still hasnt had its funds returned, on its behalf.  Mr K brought the complaint to this 
service.
On 16 January 2023 we asked Probitas to send us their response to the complaint so that 
we could look into it. We asked for this to be done by 30 January 2023.
On 18 and 30 January 2023 our investigator contacted Probitas also and asked them for 
information to help him investigate the complaint.
On 17 February 2023 our investigator chased Probitas for their response to the complaint 
and asked Probitas to provide their response by 24 February 2023.  Probitas did not reply 
and still havent done so. 
He said that since theres been no information from Probitas regarding Ps complaint, hes 
had to rely on the information available, which is enough to persuade him that Probitas is in 
error and needs to put things right. He said Ps relationship is with Probitas and not Probitas 
bank. Therefore, its for Probitas to return Ps funds to it. 
So the investigator recommended that Probitas return to P the EUR 74,900 that is being 
held. And furthermore it also should pay P £350 for the impact and inconvenience caused by 
the delay.
.
P accepted the investigators opinion. Probitas, on the other hand havent responded. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Ps evidence that it had attempted to withdraw the EUR 74,900 from Probitas in April 
2022 and although similar request in the past had been dealt with promptly this request was 
not. 
But Probitas letter dated 5 July 2022 explained that Ps account was being closed because 
such services were no longer being provided. And I note they explained, the information they 
needed from P  principally KYC information in order to complete the closure process and 
return the account balance of EUR 74,900 to P.
From the available evidence, I am satisfied P provided the information Probitas asked for. 
And although Probitas acknowledge receiving the information, P has yet to receive its funds. 
I note P has been told the failure lies with Probitas bank and that P should contact them. But as the investigator pointed out, and I agree, Ps relationship is with Probitas not their 
bank. So, I do not find it is Ps responsibility to contact Probitas bank to determine why there 
has been the delay in returning its funds. 
Beyond what Probitas has told P weve no information as to why Probitas have not returned 
Ps funds. Weve had no communication from them putting their case directly despite 
repeated requests.  
Mr K has explained that the money thats being held belong to Ps clients. And Probitas 
failure to return it has caused inconvenience because it cannot, in turn return the funds to its 
clients. 
Our powers to consider complaints are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Within these rules DISP 3.5.9 says that the Ombudsman may:
(3) reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the
failure by a party to provide information requested
DISP 3.5.14 goes on to say:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint
To date no response has been received from Probitas to the various requests by this service 
to assist our investigation into this case. And so, like the investigator, I have to base my 
decision on the available evidence. 
That evidence confirms that in response to Probitas request for the documents noted above 
to help it close Ps account and return its funds, P responded on 20 July 2022 and gave 
them the information they requested. Probitas acknowledged receiving it but has not 
returned Ps funds. 
Putting things right
I find therefore, that Probitas have treated P unfairly by their delay in returning to P the funds 
belonging to it. Im persuaded also that the delay has caused P inconvenience for which it 
should also be compensated 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I 
recommend that Probitas Fidelis Limited: 
return to P the full balance in Ps account of EUR 74,900
 Pay £350 compensation to P for the inconvenience Probitas Fidelis Limiteds delay 
to date has caused to P.  
   Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman