DRN-2232586
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) gave him unsuitable advice to transfer out of 
his Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and into a personal pension. 
What happened
In July 1991 Mr M was given advice by a colleague and fellow Lloyds member of staff to 
transfer his OPS into a personal pension.
In March 2000, this advice was reviewed under the industry wide Pension Review. It was 
found that Mr M had suffered a loss due to this advice. And he was paid redress which was 
added to his personal pension in full and final settlement.
More recently Mr M complained to Lloyds as the redress he was paid has fallen well short of 
what he wouldve received had he stayed within the OPS. However, Lloyds said it had met 
its obligations in carrying out the review.
Our investigator looked into the matter but didnt think Lloyds needed to do anything more to 
put things right. He explained that Lloyds had carried out the Pension Review and whilst 
returns hadnt met the assumptions inherent in the review, this didnt mean Lloyds needed to 
look at it again.
Mr M felt that the advice was so bad it should be looked again. And he was a member of 
staff as well as a customer  and morally Lloyds should be asked to re-review the advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly 
the same reasons.
The essence of Mr Ms complaint is that he was given bad advice by Lloyds and he will be 
worse off, for having left his OPS. However, this has already been considered under the 
Pension Review. Mr M accepted this in full and final settlement of any claim against the 
business. And this is how the regulator directed businesses to look at mis-selling under the 
Pension Review. 
Lloyds accepted in 2000 that the advice Mr M received may have been unsuitable and so 
calculated whether a loss had occurred. The intention was that the Pension Review would 
compensate Mr M for the losses he would later experience when he came to retire. 
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out the loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determine things like future 
investment returns. 
Unfortunately, the assumptions used in the Pension Review calculations havent in hindsight 
turned out as expected. Investment returns were much lower than predicted and annuity 
rates have fallen. This has meant many people have ended up with a shortfall in their 
personal pensions compared to what they wouldve got within the OPS.
But this doesn't mean Lloyds must redo the calculation. Under the terms of the
Pensions Review, firms were only required to conduct the review once, using the
standards and assumptions the regulator told them to use at the time. This is because the
assumptions or predictions they used were considered reasonable at the time to assess the
future loss. The regulator intended that the review would draw a line under any pension mis-
selling and would put things right at the time. Once a firm carried out a Pension Review on a 
policy, they werent required to review it again. 
At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of the reviews. And
Businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external quality checks by 
the regulator. So, Im satisfied that the review was likely carried out correctly.
I understand why Mr M feels aggrieved by the situation. And that it must be frustrating that 
even with redress paid, he is still worse off. But unfortunately, the Pension Review was 
purposely designed as a one-off exercise, to draw a line under any mis-selling at the time of 
the review. To do these review calculations at a much later date, had significant drawbacks, 
as firms may no longer have existed at that point. And so for the most part, reviews were 
carried out there and then as instructed by the regulator.
I am sorry to hear of the position Mr M finds himself in because of the advice he received to 
transfer his OPS. But as the transfer has been reviewed as it was required to be by the 
regulators at the time, I wont be asking Lloyds to look at it again.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman