DRN-3773222
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Starling Bank Limited has refused to refund him for three disputed 
transactions to a cryptocurrency merchant totalling £336.43. Mr F said he didnt authorise 
these transactions. 
What happened
Mr F said he didnt authorise or have any knowledge about two transactions to this 
cryptocurrency merchant, namely one of £51.54 made at 8.49am on 23 June 2022, and 
another of £114.41 made at 11.41am on 23 June 2022. 
He contacted Starling and his card was cancelled and a new one issued which he could use 
online until he received it via the postal service. 
However, then another transaction was made to the cryptocurrency merchant of £170.48 At 
3.28am on 24 June 2022. Mr F said he hadnt authorised this one either. 
Starling was of the view that since the cryptocurrency merchant has an account in Mr Fs 
name with his correct details there was nothing to show that Mr F didnt make these 
payments, so it refused to refund them to him. 
Mr F brought his complaint to us. The investigator was also of the view that Starling hadnt 
done anything wrong in refusing to refund Mr F. Mr F remained dissatisfied, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
 
Starling has shown me that the first two transactions done on the 23 June were made with 
the same card number via Apple Pay from the registered device. Mr F then contacted 
Starling saying he hadnt authorised these payments.
Consequently, Starling cancelled Mr Fs card, (the one that made these transactions) and 
gave him a new one. It explained that the card was available to be used in a e-wallet whilst 
the physical card was then delivered by the postal service. The next disputed transaction 
using this new card was made some hours later, on 24 June again using Apple Pay. 
Mr F told us that he left his physical card at home and that he lived alone. He also told us 
that his mobile phone was always on his person at work or directly at the table so no one 
could have access to it. And for transactions Mr F said he used Apple Pay on his phone. So, 
since there was no physical card for the third disputed transaction as Mr F would not have 
received it by this time, that could only have been done using Mr Fs phone. So, I dont agree 
with Mr F that his card details were copied. And theres no evidence his phone security was 
breached and theres no evidence that either the card or Mr Fs phone were stolen. 
Furthermore. the merchant for these transactions could show Starling it had an account in 
Mr Fs name with his correct address and other details. This consequently shows the benefit 
of these transactions were in any event in Mr Fs name.
Lastly there are undisputed transactions which Mr F confirmed he had authorised in between 
the disputed transactions.
 
Taking all of this evidence into account, there is no evidence that Ive seen that anyone other 
than Mr F could have done these disputed transactions.    
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman