DRN-3459197
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to settle a claim 
as a fault claim under his car insurance policy. Mr G also complained about the poor service 
he says Admiral provided.
What happened
Mr G was unfortunately involved in an incident with another car in a car park. He made a 
claim to his insurer, Admiral. 
Mr G said he was coming out from a side exit in the car park when another driver collided 
into his car. He said the other driver was speeding and under the influence of drugs. Mr G 
called the police but no further action was taken. 
Admiral settled the claim as a fault claim as it said Mr G had a greater duty of care from his 
position when coming out from a side exit. Admiral hadnt received any evidence the other 
driver was speeding or under the influence. Based on the information available and what 
Admiral could prove, it said its decision was correct. 
Mr G chose not to use an approved repairer (AR) of Admirals to have his car repaired. So 
Admiral said it would need to approve an estimate from Mr Gs preferred garage before 
repairs could go ahead. Admiral didnt approve the labour rates by the garage as these were 
higher than the AR rates. So it settled the claim by paying a cash in lieu settlement. 
Mr G complained that the way Admiral handled the claim for repairs was unreasonable. But 
Admiral didnt agree. It said it had acted correctly and in line with the policy. 
Mr G said the service he received from Admiral was poor. Admiral said it had failed to call Mr 
G back when promised and paid Mr G £75 compensation and £25 for loss of use for his time 
in calls while he was at work. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Admiral had acted in a fair way. 
Mr G didnt agree. In summary he has repeated what he told Admiral about the incident and 
the other driver. He doesnt agree he should be held at fault for the incident. Hes very 
unhappy that the full costs of the repairs by his preferred garage werent covered by Admiral. 
Mr G says he spent around 20 hours in calls with Admiral and so the compensation doesnt 
reflect the time and inconvenience. 
So Mr G wants an ombudsman to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Admiral has a term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This term 
allows Admiral to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Gs name. This 
means Admiral might make a decision that Mr G doesnt agree with, but Admiral is allowed 
to do so. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer can show it treated 
its customer fairly when applying it. 
Where liability is disputed, an insurer has to determine if the evidence it has makes a strong 
case to defend in court. Evidence such as police reports, CCTV, independent witness 
statements will all help an insurer to reach a decision as to how best to settle a claim. The 
decision to proceed to court proceedings can significantly increase the costs of a claim and 
so its reasonable for an insurer to weight up its chances of success and rely on its 
experience of previous cases and claims. 
In this case there is no independent evidence to support each partys account. So it is one 
word against the other. That doesnt mean that Admiral  or I  dont believe Mr G. But 
Admiral had no evidence to show the other driver was at fault for the incident. Based on the 
fact that Mr G was coming out from a side exit in the car park while the other driver was 
proceeding, Admiral said the greater duty of care  in the absence of any evidence showing 
fault by the other driver  would be on Mr G. It explained to Mr G that if the matter were to 
proceed to court, it believes a Judge would come to the same conclusion. So it made the 
decision to settle the claim as a fault claim. 
Mr G says he had a previous poor experience with an AR of Admirals and so he didnt want 
his car to be repaired by an AR this time. I understand Mr Gs reasons. However, I dont 
think Admiral acted unreasonably when applying the terms of the policy. Admiral says:
Section 2: Damage to your vehicle (cont.)
If you do not wish to use our approved repairers an additional excess will apply, 
which will be confirmed on your Policy Schedule. We will be unable to provide you 
with a courtesy car.
You will need to give us an estimate from your preferred repairer. If we think the 
estimate is unreasonable, we can:
arrange for your vehicle to be moved to our approved repairer
ask you to give an estimate from another repairer.
IMPORTANT
If we instruct an approved repairer or another company to provide you with a 
courtesy car, it
will be covered under your insurance policy. A courtesy car will not be provided until 
the repairs have been authorised.
A courtesy car will not be provided if your vehicle is:
stolen outside our territorial limits
beyond economic repair
repaired by an unapproved repairer.
I cant criticise Admiral for assessing the garages estimate or not providing a courtesy car as 
this is what Mr Gs policy says it will do. Insurers often have preferential rates with ARs and 
can provide guarantees for repairs carried out under a claim. I understand Mr G is unhappy 
with the way it settled the claim for repairs. But I dont think Admiral did anything wrong here by paying a cash settlement as it couldnt agree with the preferred garage on the estimate 
provided. It paid what it would have otherwise cost Admiral if an AR had been used and 
allowed Mr G the choice to use his preferred garage. 
I think its reasonable to expect a claim to take up some of our time. Fortunately it isnt 
something that happens every day. But its inevitable that dealing with a claim will involve a 
degree of inconvenience and disruption to our daily lives. 
Admiral accepts that it failed to call Mr G back when promised. For its poor service Admiral 
paid Mr G a total of £100: being £25 for the time taken while he was at work and £75 
compensation. I think this is a fair amount and in line with awards which we make for similar 
circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G. But taking everything into account I think Admiral has done 
enough to resolve his complaint. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman