DRN-1662685
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold an 
Advantage Gold and Select Platinum packaged bank account to them in June 2010 and 
March 2013 respectively.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-led into taking out the accounts as they were told they 
would guarantee them access to a larger mortgage in the future and would guarantee them 
an £18,000 loan. They have also mentioned that it would allow them to get preferential rates 
both on borrowing and on their savings.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs W s complaint and didnt think that NatWest had mis-
sold the packaged accounts. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look 
at this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to decide what to do about this complaint.
Having looked at all the information provided, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the 
packaged accounts to Mr and Mrs W. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs W were given a clear choice in taking the 
Advantage Gold and Select Platinum accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain 
that I have to make my decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened having weighed up what both parties have been able to provide me with.
Prior to upgrading I can see that Mr and Mrs W held a fee free account for a number of years 
and I can see that they were able to obtain a mortgage and an overdraft facility. So I think 
that they wouldve been aware free accounts were an option for them and that they did not 
need these accounts in order to obtain credit.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W say they were told that if they upgraded their account, they 
would be looked on favourably if they applied for a mortgage and that they were guaranteed 
an £18,000 personal loan. But looking at their application history I cant see that they applied 
for any additional borrowing until 2017. I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would have 
agreed to these accounts, which they were paying a fee for on a monthly basis, solely to 
obtain further borrowing unless they were planning on borrowing funds in the near future.
Moreover, had Mr and Mrs W took out these accounts to obtain credit I think that they 
wouldve downgraded their account or raised a complaint in 2017 - when their application for 
a mortgage advance was declined and they were unable to take out the £18,000 loan that 
they say they were guaranteed by the NatWest staff.
I note that when Mr and Mrs W upgraded their account to the Advantage Gold account, it did 
come with preferential rates on both borrowing and savings. So I think that rather than being 
told they had to upgrade to get further borrowing, I think its more likely they were instead 
told of these preferential rates. So its possible that this was one reason why they agreed to 
this specific upgrade. But as I have said above, I dont think that it is likely that this was the 
main reason they agreed to this upgrade, as I wouldve expected applications for credit 
sooner.
I think that it is more likely that they agreed to take out these accounts due to the benefits 
that these accounts came with. Both accounts came with broadly the same benefits which 
included mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and worldwide travel insurance (the 
select platinum came with family cover for this benefit). And I can see that Mr and Mrs W 
registered and attempted to claim on the mobile phone insurance, drove and did travel. So 
overall I think that these benefits couldve been useful for them and therefore that they took 
out these accounts knowing that they did not have to as they were, at least initially, attracted 
to the benefits that they came with.
NatWest says that both accounts were sold on a non-advised basis. This means that 
NatWest explains what benefits are included with the account and then its up to the 
consumer to decide whether to upgrade or not. In this instance I think that it was likely that 
the main benefits of these accounts were highlighted to Mr and Mrs W. I say this because 
NatWest wouldve wanted to make these accounts seem appealing to Mr and Mrs W in order 
to persuade them to upgrade.
I accept that NatWest may not have mentioned everything about all of the benefits that the 
accounts came with. But I cant see anything specific that they were not told about that I 
think wouldve altered their decision to agree to these upgrades.
It may be the case that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs W now think that these 
accounts have been poor value for money and therefore they now want a refund of the 
account fees. And whilst that maybe the case, that doesnt mean that NatWest was wrong or 
acting unfairly to have sold the accounts to them at the time.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that NatWest mis-sold the Advantage Gold 
and Select Platinum accounts to Mr and Mrs W. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W will be 
disappointed by this decision as they clearly feel strongly that their accounts were mis-sold. 
But I hope I have been able to explain to them why I am unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman