DRN-3494977
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund a disputed transaction that 
occurred from his bank account.
What happened
In May 2021, Mr W said he checked his bank account online and found that a transaction 
had been made for £512.93 to a third party. He said he hadnt made this transaction and that 
he didnt know the recipient of the transfer. He contacted Monzo and they looked into what 
had happened. 
Monzo decided not to refund the transaction. It said there was no evidence
of fraudulent activity. It thought Mr W must have made the transaction himself because:
It could see the transaction was made using Mr Ws trusted device. 
That same device had been used that day for other undisputed transactions. 
It couldnt see how someone other than Mr W would have known his PIN number and 
bank login details to make the transaction. 
As Mr W didnt agree with Monzos decision, he asked us to investigate.
An investigator here reviewed the complaint but, in summary, she felt unable to conclude 
that the transactions had been made fraudulently and was persuaded it was most likely 
made by Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a detailed outline of the relevant considerations, so I wont repeat
them in full here. The key consideration for me is whether I think its likely Mr W made the 
transaction himself or whether it was likely done by someone else without his knowledge  
and by extension, whether its fair for Monzo to hold him liable for the payments.
I understand how strongly Mr W feels about this complaint. He has raised a number of
points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered everything he
has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome of the case. No
discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having looked at the complaint fully, my review of the evidence has led me to the same
overall conclusions as the investigator previously set out and for much the same reasons.
Ive seen the electronic records which showed that Mr Ws trusted device was used for the 
disputed transaction. Mr W has also agreed that other transactions from the same device 
that day are genuine. Whoever made the payment would have had to have been able to 
obtain the device, know Mr Ws PIN to access the phone and have his banking login details. 
I dont think its likely a third party would have been able to remove his phone, make the 
transaction and return the phone without Mr W being aware of it. As Mr W has informed us 
this device had been on him personally at the time of the disputed transaction and that no-
one else had access to it, knew the PIN or login details for the bank account, I dont see how 
the transaction could have been made by someone else.
I understand Mr W will be disappointed but I think, on balance, Mr W carried out or 
consented to the disputed transaction and therefore Monzo can hold him liable.  
My final decision
 I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman