DRN-4247037
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has refused to pay his claim 
under his Car Insurance policy for accidental damage to his car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I largely agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and Ive set 
out my reasons for making Admiral pay for the repairs to Mr Bs car, excluding replacing or 
repairing the seal on the sunroof.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers 
must handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these 
rules, and other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint.
Mr Bs policy covers loss or damage to his car and he has claimed for damage to his car 
caused by water getting into it through the sunroof. So, as I see it, the damage caused 
by the water is covered and Admiral should pay the cost of repairing it. 
Mr Bs policy excludes damage caused by wear and tear and malfunction. And it seems 
the seal on the sunroof failed due to a manufacturing fault, which I think means it 
malfunctioned. So I dont think the repair or replacement of the seal itself is covered by 
Mr Bs policy; so I am not going to make Admiral pay for this. 
However, Admiral can deduct the policy excess from the amount it pays Mr B as this I 
payable on claims for damage to Mr Bs car.
As Mr B paid the repair invoice some time ago, I also consider Admiral should pay him 
interest on the amount due to him at 8% per annum simple from the date he paid for the 
repairs to the date Admiral reimburses this amount. This is to compensate Mr B for being 
without this money. 
Putting things right
I have seen an estimate for the repairs to Mr Bs car of £4,197.48, which was provided by 
Admiral. And this doesnt appear to include repair or replacement of the seal itself. Mr B has 
said it cost £4,630 to repair his car, but I have not seen an invoice for this amount. However, 
as I have already explained, I consider Admiral should pay what it cost to repair the damage 
to Mr Bs car caused by the seal on his sunroof failing ( but not the repair of the seal itself), 
less the policy excess. But this is subject to Mr B providing Admiral with an invoice to show 
what he paid for this. 
I also consider Admiral should pay Mr B interest on the amount due to him at 8% per annum 
simple from the date he paid for the repairs to the date Admiral pays him this amount. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do what Ive set out above in the Putting things right section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman