DRN-2294667
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
Mr P was contacted by a company that supplied and installed solar panel systems, (the 
system). Ill refer to this company as G. Following a meeting at his home Mr P agreed to 
enter into a contract with G for it to supply and install the system at his home. To fund this, 
Mr P also agreed to enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr P made a claim under section 75 of the Act. Mr P said G had made a number of 
representations that had induced him to enter into the contract and these representations 
had turned out not to be true. These included that the system would be self-funding and 
that his monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income and any savings hed make on his electricity bills. But that hadnt happened. Instead, 
the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than any benefit he had received.
Mr P also said as part of his contract with G, he had an ongoing maintenance and monitoring 
package which meant he would provide it with a meter reading from the system and it would 
carry out a check to ensure it was performing as it should.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook agreed that the benefits of the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr P. To put things right it said it had calculated the potential savings and 
income that he could expect to earn over the 15 year loan term. It then said it would 
restructure the loan to ensure that he would pay no more than this over the original 15 year 
loan term. As Mr P had settled his loan early from his savings, this meant Shawbrook would 
refund any overpayment, plus 8% simple interest direct to him. It also offered £200 for any 
trouble and upset caused.
Unhappy with this response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. They thought the offer from 
Shawbrook to make the system cost neutral, and the £200 for trouble and upset was fair. 
They were satisfied that monitoring and maintenance package formed part of the original 
contract and, therefore, that Shawbrook should honour it. They also noted that Mr P had 
raised some concerns about the condition and asked Shawbrook to arrange for a roof 
inspection to be carried out. This was done and any necessary repair work was carried out 
and paid for by Shawbrook.
Mr P didnt accept the investigators view. In summary, he said:
The offer from Shawbrook didnt take into account the cost of a new inverter.
The award for trouble and upset didnt reflect the length of time that the complaint 
had been going on for.
Shawbrook didnt accept the investigators view on the ongoing monitoring and maintenance 
package. It said it wasnt persuaded that this formed part of the contract financed by 
Shawbrook. It said, based on its experience, a consumer could purchase a separate 
maintenance package with G, but this would have been paid for directly by the C. To support 
its position, Shawbrook provided the file relating to Mr Ps sale it had obtained from G after it 
had entered administration.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have most likely happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Self-funding offer 
Mr P has said he was approached by G and during a subsequent sales meeting told that the 
system would be entirely self-financing. Neither Shawbrook nor Mr P dispute that the 
benefits of the system were misrepresented. As a result of this my decision will deal with 
what I consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether Shawbrook should put Mr P back in the position he wouldve been 
in if there had been no misrepresentation. I dont think it would be fair or proportionate to 
require the removal of the system from his home. Rather, I think the fair outcome here would 
be to put Mr P in a position where the system is self-funding over the original term of the 
loan. By allowing Mr P to retain the system, and any future benefits, Im satisfied that this 
would make the system cost neutral and ensure that he doesnt suffer a loss due to any 
misrepresentation made by G.
Ive carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the system. This methodology was provided to Mr P when 
Shawbrook sent its final response letter.
The methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Mr Ps system.
Shawbrook has set out that it will use a number of assumptions when calculating the 
estimated future performance of the system. These include a self-consumption rate of 37%. 
This is the amount of energy generated by Mr Ps system that he is expected to use, or self-
consume, as opposed to buying electricity from his energy provider. The Government 
assumed that a rate of 50% should be used and this was the percentage used by G. 
Mr P has raised some concerns that Shawbrook is using a lower rate than the 50%. By using 
a rate of 37%, Shawbrook has assumed that Mr P will self-consume less than the figure 
provided by G in its quote. By using a lower rate, Shawbrook has estimated that he will make 
lower electricity savings than originally quoted by G. Therefore, this is more beneficial to Mr P as it reduces the expected electricity savings he will make, resulting in a lower overall 
benefit over the 15 year loan term.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity price 
inflation, the degradation rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions used by Shawbrook provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Monitoring and maintenance
Mr P is concerned that the offer from Shawbrook doesnt take into account the cost of 
replacing the inverter or the ongoing monitoring and maintenance that G was going to 
provide.
Ill consider the cost of the replacing the inverter first. Ive looked at the information available 
from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar panels dont need a lot of maintenance but 
usually the inverter will need replacing sometime during the lifetime of the system at a 
current cost of about £800.
I accept that Mr P could have some repair costs over the lifetime of the system. The 
proposed offer from Shawbrook is to make the system cost neutral over the 15 year term of 
the loan. Once the loan has been repaid Mr P is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from 
the system by way of savings and FIT income going forward. In addition to this, as Mr P has 
already paid back the loan, he will receive a lump sum together with interest. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that Mr P would be able to use his compensation payment to pay for a replacement 
inverter if necessary.
Next, Ill consider whether the maintenance and monitoring package that Mr P had with G 
formed part of contract that was financed by Shawbrook. 
Mr P has said that, as part of his contract with G, it would provide an ongoing monitoring and 
maintenance package. This would involve G contacting him every six months to get a meter 
reading so it could assess whether the system was performing as it should. To support this, 
Mr P has provided some marketing literature from G along with a welcome letter which was 
provided after the installation.
Shawbrook has said that although Mr P may have had a monitoring and maintenance 
package with G, this didnt form part of the contract it financed. To support its position, it has 
provided a copy of Mr Ps file that it secured from G after it went into administration. It has 
said within this there is no evidence that Mr P purchased a maintenance contract from G. It 
has said it was not listed on the sales invoice and the marketing literature Mr P has supplied 
is generic in nature rather than specific to him.
I dont agree that the information Mr P has supplied could be considered as generic. It 
makes reference to the expected profit Mr P could expect to make over 25 years, the system 
he agreed to take out and it also references the other benefits which include Plus our 
Lifetime Maintenance & Monitoring. Mr P has also provided a letter from G that was 
addressed, and sent, to his home address. A copy of this letter has been provided to 
Shawbrook. This letter starts with Congratulations your Genius Energy system is now live 
and generating your cost savings.  It goes on to say:
As part of your ongoing maintenance package we will contact you in 8 weeks to ensure you 
are happy with your G (sic) system, we will then contact you every six months to get a meter reading from your generation meter this will allow us to complete our in house system to 
make sure your system is performing at the optimum level.
The letter also included that within the pack that was sent would be a receipt confirmation of 
final payment, a copy of the commissioning certificate, a customer service questionnaire and 
a copy of the Energy Performance Certificate.
Whilst I accept there is no reference to the monitoring and maintenance on Mr Ps itemised 
contract with G, when taking account of the additional information discussed above, Im 
persuaded that it was included as part of Mr Ps contract.
Shawbrook has said that the monitoring and maintenance wasnt part of the agreement that 
it financed and therefore it isnt liable for it under section 75. To support this, its provided Mr 
Ps file from G. 
Ive carefully reviewed Mr Ps file that Shawbrook secured after G went into administration. 
Whilst I accept that this makes no reference to an ongoing monitoring and maintenance, Ive 
also noted that it doesnt include the welcome letter that Mr P has provided this service. And 
based on this, Im not satisfied that the file Shawbrook was able to secure after G went into 
administration contained all the information relating to the contract that Mr P had entered into 
with G.
Mr P has also confirmed with this service that the only payment made to G was via the loan 
provided by Shawbrook. He has said that he made no other payments and part of the 
attraction of entering into the contract with G was that he had the peace of mind of also 
having ongoing monitoring and maintenance as part of is package.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that formed part of the contract Mr P had with G 
that was financed by Shawbrook. Therefore, Im satisfied that it is liable, under section 75 of 
the Act, to provide this service to Mr P.
Trouble and Upset
Mr P has said that he doesnt believe the £200 offered by Shawbrook for trouble and upset 
reflects the amount of time he has spent on his complaint or the length of time it has taken to 
be resolved. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mr Ps feeling and frustration on this, any award for trouble and upset 
isnt intended to punish the business. It is to reflect the trouble and upset caused as opposed 
to the length of time, or effort made, to resolve a complaint. And on this basis, Im satisfied 
that £200 reflects that in this case.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr P I require Shawbrook should ensure that he doesnt suffer a 
financial loss as a result of the misrepresentation made by G. Therefore, Shawbrook should 
allow Mr P to keep the solar panel system and restructure his loan to ensure he pays no 
more than the expected savings and income to him over the 15 year loan term. It should add 
8% simple interest to any overpayments made and pay him £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Shawbrook should also arrange, and pay for, a monitoring and maintenance package, with a 
solar panel company, local to Mr Ps address, for the remaining lifetime of the system.
My final decisionMy final decision is that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
Allow Mr P to keep the system.
Estimate the potential income to Mr P for the system over the 15 year term of the 
loan and rework it so he pays no more than this. Where possible, it should use his 
FIT statements and electricity bills to do this.
Add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment 
was made to date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Arrange and pay for a monitoring and maintenance package for the remaining life of 
the system.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr P a certificate showing this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Michael Fisher
Ombudsman