DRN-2985650
The complaint
Mr K complains that Wise Payments Limited wont refund money he lost after he had fallen 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mr K has told us that he and his ex-wife had purchased some land abroad, which they 
intended to build a house on. Mr K had saved the money for the build, but due to the 
pandemic the works were going to be delayed, so Mr K decided to invest the money in the 
meantime.
Mr K has said that he registered his interest online, for an opportunity to invest in bonds. 
Soon after this, Mr K has said he was contacted by somebody claiming to be from an 
investment company. But unknown to him at the time, the person who had contacted Mr K 
was a fraudster, who was impersonating a legitimate business.
The fraudster spoke to Mr K about an option that interested him, which was to invest in a 
bond, with a recognised high street bank. The fraudsters told Mr K that, due to Covid-19, the 
interest rate available on the bond would soon be cut, so encouraged him to act quickly.    
Mr K has said he carried out a number of checks before going ahead and making the 
payment, these included;
- Checking the ISIN number for the bond and finding that it was listed as a genuine 
bond.
- Checking the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) register for the Investment Firm, 
where Mr K found them to be listed, with no warnings on the FCA Warning register.
- Contacting the Financial Service Compensation Scheme (FSCS) to confirm that the 
bond was covered under the scheme.
Satisfied with what he had seen, and believing everything to be genuine, Mr K decided to 
invest and went ahead and made the following payment from his Wise account;
31 March 2020 Transfer £60,000 
Mr K has said, on 7 April 2020, he became suspicious when a call he had scheduled with the 
investment firm didnt go ahead. Mr K contacted Wise to explain that he had some concerns, 
but that, at this point, he wasnt sure if he had been the victim of a scam. Mr K contacted 
Wise again a couple of days later to confirm his suspicions were correct and he had sadly 
been the victim of a scam. Wise contacted the receiving bank (the bank to which the money 
was paid) on the same day, but unfortunately no funds remained.
Mr K complained to Wise. In summary, he thought Wise should have had measures in place 
to protect him and it should have challenged him when he was making a large payment.    
Mr K said that if Wise had of contacted him before he made the payment, and bought to his 
attention the potential risk of fraud, he would not have gone ahead with the transfer.
Mr K also didnt believe he had made the payment on an informed basis, because Wise 
didnt notify him that it had not signed up to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM 
code). Mr K said that if he had known this he wouldve used a different payment service 
provider to make the purchase, as it would have offered him more protection.
Wise looked into things and issued its final response on 19 May 2020, not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. In summary, it said while it sympathised with Mr Ks situation it didnt consider it 
was liable for the loss. This was because it said the service it provided had met the 
contractual obligations.
Unhappy with the response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into things and was of the opinion that the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, our investigator concluded that Wise ought to have identified the payment Mr K  
made was unusual, due to it being significantly higher than previous payments and it was to 
a new payee. The investigator added that other large transactions Mr K had made 
previously, which Wise had pointed out, were made to payees Mr K had paid before. With 
this our investigator considered that Wise ought to have noticed the unusual nature of the 
payment and contacted Mr K, to discuss the transaction, before progressing it.
It was our investigators opinion that if Wise had of intervened, as he thought it ought to have 
done, it would have made a difference and stopped Mr K from making the payment. He said 
this because, he thought Wise could have asked Mr K questions about the purpose of the 
payment and it would have come to light that the payment was for an investment. Our 
investigator considered Wise were aware of the risk of cloned firms, which he said was 
supported by a blog it had posted in March 2020 and he thought, in line with its own 
guidance on its website, that Wise should have warned Mr K about cloned firms and how to 
check for them.
Our investigator was persuaded that Mr Ks actions, in carrying out the checks he had before 
making the payment, demonstrated that he was being careful. So he thought Mr K would 
have taken Wises advice and carried out further research. With this our investigator said   
Mr K would have found no registration for the investment firm on Companies House and no 
telephone number on the FCAs database for the investment firm, that Mr K could have 
called to verify the legitimacy of the investment. Additionally our investigator said the firm   
Mr K had actually paid (which the fraudster had explained was the holder of the Escrow for 
the investment firm) was not listed on the FCAs database.
Overall our investigator considered that the additional research, he thought Mr K is likely to 
have carried out, would have raised a number of red flags that would have prevented him 
from making the payment. Our investigator recommended that Wise should refund the 
money Mr K had lost, along with interest and it should pay a further £200 compensation due 
to the upset caused.
Wise didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary it said;
- The investigator had made a number of assumptions about what Mr Ks actions 
might have been if it had intervened.
- Mr K registered his account with Wise in 2014 and had been using its services since 
then. So it considered Mr K to be an experienced user of its services, predominately 
to capitalise on the commercial advantages of using its services for the purpose of 
international cross-border transactions.- It didnt agree that by failing to intervene in this instance, it had failed to adhere to the 
duty of care it owed Mr K. It added that the evidence suggests Mr K was aware of the 
risks and was victimised due to the sophistication and professionalism of the fraud, 
not due to any lack of knowledge or information that it could have provided to Mr K at 
the time of the payment.
- It didnt agree the transaction Mr K made should have raised suspicions, as it was in 
line with the type of activity it expects its customers to use its service for. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me for a decision. Ahead of 
issuing my findings, I asked our investigator to reach out to both parties to clarify this 
services position with regards to any potential interest award on cases such as this, as it 
differs to those set out in our investigators view. I invited both parties to provide any final 
submissions. Wise didnt respond. Mr K responded and in summary said that while he 
understood the reasoning our investigator had provided; it was his understanding that 8% 
simple interest appeared to be the standard for cases such as his. Mr K added that the last 
28 months had been a very difficult time for him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I know Mr K has referred to other cases he has reviewed, which have been published by this 
service. But I would point out that, while on the surface complaints may seem quite similar, 
each complaint is determined by its own individual circumstances. Here, as Im required to 
do, Ive looked solely at the individual circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr K authorised this transaction and that means that under the
Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his account he is presumed liable for
the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Wise
should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am aware that Wise considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected of 
it in terms of identifying payments that might indicate a consumer is at risk of financial harm, 
and its referred to the Quincecare duty' and Philipp v Barclays [2021] in support of its 
argument.
Ive taken Wises comments into account. But we have a duty to resolve complaints based 
on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, taking into 
account not just the law, but also regulators' rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what we consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
So, in this case, Ive thought carefully about Wises obligations. I need to decide whether 
Wise acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K, when he made the transfer to a 
fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Ive thought about whether the transfer Mr K made was out of character and unusual. I 
acknowledge that a customer funding an account specifically to make an international 
payment, as happened here, in and of itself, is unlikely to have stood out as being 
remarkable, suspicious or unusual activity to Wise and is broadly in line with what it would 
expect to see from one of its customers. And I appreciate that Wise has a difficult balance to 
strike, in how it configures its systems to detect unusual activity or activity that might 
otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But having reviewed the transaction     
Mr K made, Im persuaded that it wasnt typical of how the account was usually run and so, I 
think it ought to have caused Wise to be concerned that Mr K might have been at risk of 
financial harm. Ill explain why.
In the circumstances of this case, I can see that Mr K had held an account with Wise for 
many years, so a reasonable profile of his typical account activity had been built, which Wise 
ought to have been alive to, when looking for unusual or suspicious activity. When looking at 
the payment Mr K has made for £60,000, it is for considerably more than any previous 
payment he has made and it is to a new payee. While Mr K had made other payments for 
relatively large amounts (three notable ones as had previously been mentioned), these were 
still for considerably less value, than the payment made to the fraudster and they were to 
known payees. Im also mindful, that while Mr K has made transfers from his Wise account, 
it is more typically used for lower value card transactions. So overall, Im persuaded that the 
payment for £60,000, to a new payee, was quite radically different when compared to how 
the account was more typically run, to the point where I think Wise ought to have intervened 
and discussed the payment with Mr K before allowing it to be progressed. And while some of 
Wises customers might use their accounts only for occasional international transactions,   
Mr K clearly wasnt.
With all of the above in mind I think Wise ought to fairly and reasonably have asked 
additional questions to satisfy itself that Mr K wasnt likely to be at risk of financial harm. I 
should be clear from the outset, I cant know for certain how events wouldve transpired if 
Wise had handled things differently and intervened. So I must reach a conclusion based on 
the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the available evidence. 
In these particular circumstances, for example, Wise could have asked Mr K; what the 
payment was for, how did he hear about the investment, what rate of return had he been 
promised, what did he know about the company he was investing in. Mr K hadnt been coached about what to say, as can often be the case with scams, so I think it more likely 
than not he would have answered Wises questions freely.
I think it would have come to light that Mr K was intending to invest in bonds and that he had 
expressed an interest online. At the time, Wise should have been well aware of the 
possibility of legitimate financial businesses being impersonated or cloned. And, given that 
scams of this nature often target people seeking fixed-rate bonds, such as this one, with the 
victims often initiating an interest online and then receiving contact, Mr Ks mention of 
investing in such a product ought to have prompted further questions.
Im not persuaded just because Mr K has used Wises service frequently it makes him any 
more attuned to this type of scam. Indeed, Mr K has explained that he didnt have any 
previous investment experience, so I dont think he could fairly and reasonably have realised 
that legitimate companies could be cloned in this way. Wise has far superior knowledge of 
what scams like this look and feel like. It would have been straightforward for Wise to talk to 
Mr K about the prevalence of these types of scam and to what they look and feel like. And I 
think it fairly and reasonably could have informed him of the steps he needed to take to 
protect himself. And to have given him advice in line with the actions it was suggesting its 
customers could take to protect themselves in the blog it posted in March 2020  an extract 
of which I have noted below;
-Authorisation: Almost all financial services firms must be authorised by a national 
supervisory authority, who keep online registers. In the UK, for example, you can 
check the authorisation of a company in the  FCA register. Other countries have their 
own national registers you can check. Log in using the official link rather than the link 
provided in an email or text. Always be careful of companies registered in countries 
where there is no regulation of financial services or where you might have trouble 
getting legal redress.
-Legitimacy: Check that the firm youre investing with is not a  clone firm. Scammers 
will often pretend to be from an actual legitimate firm that is authorised by the local 
authority. They often can furnish you with the website and legitimate employees 
details. To verify the identity of an authorised firm ask for their Firm Registration 
Number (FRN) and contact details, but always call them back on the switchboard 
number given on the Register or the official number listed in formal companies 
registers such as  Companies House. Consider direct contact with the local regulator 
to verify whether a firm or advisor is appropriately licensed and operating legally. If 
an investment is in another company, contact them directly to confirm if this is 
possible.
-Legal and financial advice: If all the above checks out, it might be best to consult a 
legal advisor to check over any contracts and agreements or a financial advisor who 
is qualified to advise on investments.
Had Wise carried out these actions, I think it more likely than not would have prevented the 
scam and I dont believe Mr K would have gone ahead with the payment. I say that as Im 
persuaded he had already demonstrated he was approaching the investment with caution by 
researching the company he intended to invest with. And so, I believe its fair and 
reasonable to conclude he would have taken on board the significant new information and 
warnings from a professional service, particularly at the mention of a potential scam. I think it 
more likely than not the additional research Mr K is likely to have carried out would have led 
him to find that he was unable to confirm the legitimacy of the investment, through the 
channels that were open to him and it follows I think it more likely than not he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the payment.I think this is supported when considering Mr Ks personal circumstances, in that he was 
investing his life savings, that were intended to build a home, so it seems he would have 
been particularly intent on doing the right thing. Overall, having considered everything 
carefully I dont think Wise went far enough with its intervention prior to Mr K making the 
payment. Had it of done, I dont think Mr K would have gone ahead with the payment and it 
follows that the money wouldnt have been lost.
Ive thought about whether Mr K should bear some responsibility in terms of his actions. 
However, it is clear that up to and including the time of the payment authorisation he was in 
the dark and simply did not appreciate that he may have been at risk. He thought he was 
investing his money through a legitimate company. I am satisfied he was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. And Wise was the professional in 
financial matters.
Impact on Mr K
Mr K has told us this situation has caused considerable stress and worry. It is important to 
point out that the bulk of that impact follows directly from the actions of the fraudsters. But I 
consider that Wise could and ought to have prevented Mr K from losing money as a result of 
the scam. By stopping the financial losses Mr K incurred, it is my finding that Wise could 
have reduced the overall impact on Mr K. Considering everything, I think Wise should pay  
Mr K £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of 
its actions.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, an ombudsman should look to put a 
consumer as close to the position they would be in now, had a firm/business acted 
accordingly and prevented a loss from happening.
We would expect firms to pay interest (on top of any refund) from the date of loss, but in the
individual circumstances of this case, I think that an award of 8% would represent significant 
betterment to Mr K, given that I understand his intention was to invest the money in such a 
way that his capital was not put at risk and such a rate of return would be unachievable 
without doing so.
So, I think interest should be calculated using the monthly average rate for one-year fixed- 
rate bonds, as published by the Bank of England, for the month of March 2020, from the 
date of the disputed payment until the date of settlement.
I think this is the fairest way of, as far as possible, putting Mr K in the position he would have 
been had the fraud not taken place  that being that he would have likely purchased a 
legitimate bond elsewhere and continued to invest his money without risking the capital.
In view of the above, I now direct Wise Payments Limited to:
- Refund Mr K the £60,000 he lost.
- Pay simple interest on that amount at the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-
rate bonds, as published by the Bank of England for the month of March 2020, from 
the date Mr K made the payment to the date of settlement.
- Pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Wise Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman