DRN-3142889
The complaint
Mr W complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc irresponsibly approved his loan application 
which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr W says he took out a Hitachi loan but was in financial difficulties at the time. He says he 
had significant debt and that no checks were carried out on the application. Mr W says he 
wasnt asked for evidence of his income or debt and had that been requested, then it unlikely 
his loan application would have been approved. He would like either the loan written off or 
interest refunded as well as interest paid on that refund.
Hitachi says it did carry out appropriate checks on the application for a £6,000 loan in 2018. 
It says it validated Mr Ws declared income of £21,000 a year and calculated his 
expenditure. Hitachi says based on its calculations, that loan was affordable and left Mr W 
with about £680 a month for other non-mortgage expenditure. It also says Mr W made 
required payments for some time after the loan was taken out.
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Hitachi had carried out appropriate checks on Mr Ws credit file and calculated the 
affordability of the loan. And that Mr W made required payments until financial difficulties 
about a year later.
Mr W doesnt accept that view and says his credit report only shows half the picture and 
says an assessment cant be made with one credit report from one Credit Reference Agency 
(CRA).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any credit application. 
Those checks will of course vary depending on the amount and type of lending and if there is 
an existing relationship between the parties. 
Im satisfied that Mr W and Hitachi were in an existing relationship as Mr W had an existing 
loan. And so, Im satisfied that Hitachi was entitled to consider what it knew about Mr W and 
consider his existing account management, which I think would not have caused any 
concerns.
I have looked at Hitachis records and can see that it did carry out checks on Mr Ws 
application and verified his income and calculated his debt. I can see that on the face it 
those calculations showed that Mr W had about £680 for expenditure costs after his 
mortgage costs were taken into account. Hitachi also checked Mr Ws credit file which I dont 
think revealed any concerns. So, Im satisfied that Hitachi did carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr Ws loan application and that the lending was affordable and not 
irresponsible.
I can see that Mr W managed his account appropriately for about a year after the loan was 
taken out and I think that provides additional evidence that the loan was affordable. 
I appreciate Mr W says the credit file only provides half of the picture. But I think Mr W could 
have provided us with a report from a different CRA if he thinks information hasnt been 
recorded correctly. I also think that a business is entitled to consider one CRA report in any 
event and I have made clear that I find that Hitachi looked at other sources of information 
when considering affordability here. 
Overall, I find Hitachi carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Ws loan 
application. Having looked carefully at Mr Ws credit file I think on balance that it likely his 
financial difficulties started sometime after this loan was taken out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman