DRN-2985446
The complaint
Mr S complains about the quality of windows and doors financed through a fixed sum loan 
with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint BPF, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
When considering a complaint about a financial services provider, Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I dont have to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
The investigator has moved this complaint on a fair way and there appears to be broad 
approval from both sides that there has been a breach of contract here as the window and 
door fitting hasnt been of an acceptable standard. Thats supported by the findings in the 
inspectors report of 1 April 2021.
Theres also broad approval that to resolve matters BPF should:
discount the goods by 20% by providing a relevant interest rebate, on the basis that a 
£2,446.40 early settlement lump sum has been made and in line with the repaying 
early section of the loan agreement;
arrange remedial work outlined in the 1 April 2021 inspection report items 1 to 7;
pay Mr S £250 compensation in respect of the delays hes experienced.
Given the issues Mr S has faced I think those are reasonable actions and I would agree they 
form the basis of a fair resolution to Mr Ss complaint.
What isnt currently agreed is the repairs that may be necessary outside of the scope of the 
inspectors April report and theres also some remaining concerns over the nature of the 
guarantee.
Our investigator has suggested that BPF should carry out any remedial work required thats 
not covered by items 1 to 7 of the inspectors report. That would include any replastering and 
redecorating required as a result of the remedial work under items 1 to 7.
BPF say that was never part of the contract as the interior wasnt decorated when the 
windows were fitted. But as this issue has taken several years to resolve it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr S not to proceed with other work he had planned on the house. 
The inspector said, the internals of all items (1 to 7) require plastering and redecorating 
once the works are completed and it seems BPF agreed to this as I can see that they 
emailed Mr S on 11 May 2021 and explained At present (the resolution provider) are looking 
into the scope of works that (the contractor) would not be able to assist with, including 
decoration, plastering etc. I think it would be fair for BPF to pay for any internal plastering 
and redecoration required to remedy damage caused by the window/door fitting/rectification 
works.
I understand BPF would like that work quantifying in more detail but as rectification work 
hasnt taken place its not possible to do that in much detail. 
For the avoidance of any doubt I can see that the inspector highlighted damage to 
pebbledash and render that would need rectifying. He explained that the poor pebble 
dashing could only be repaired to a reasonable standard. I dont think it would be reasonable 
to expect BPF to replace all the pebble dashing as I think that wouldnt be expected when 
the windows were originally fitted. I think its fair to allow some reasonable patching to take 
place. BPF have asked me to clarify the scope of the internal redecoration required and that 
would only be to rectify any damage done when the windows doors were fitted/rectified.
BPF have confirmed that the guarantee provided by the supplier remains valid with 
ourselves for the full term and Mr S is protected in that regard through section 75. I dont 
therefore think its necessary for BPF to issue a written guarantee. 
  
Putting things right
So, to put things right BPF should attend to the issues Ive detailed above and itemised 
below. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:discount the goods by 20% by providing a relevant interest rebate, on the basis that a 
£2,446.40 early settlement lump sum has been made and in line with the repaying 
early section of the loan agreement;
arrange remedial work outlined in the 1 April 2021 inspection report items 1 to 7 and 
at no cost to Mr S. Contractors should be instructed within 30 days of this decision; 
pay Mr S £250 compensation in respect of the delays hes experienced.
arrange and pay for any internal plastering and redecoration required to remedy 
damage caused by the window fitting/rectification works and ensure this remedial 
work is completed expeditiously.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman