DRN-2874263
The complaint
Ms R says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms R bought the policy when she took out a loan in 2003. The loan included an amount to pay 
for the policy. The policy protected her repayments on the loan for up to twelve months if she 
became unemployed or if she couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. The policy 
also provided her with life cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
The policy was sold over 18 years ago. I have to take into account that memories can fade 
over time. And in cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, to decide what is most likely to 
have happened
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint, Ill explain why. 
Nationwide had to get Ms Rs consent to the cover and to make Ms R aware the policy was 
optional. Nationwide has provided the loan agreement from the sale. The cover is described 
as Optional Credit Insurance and Ms R signed the loan agreement, which suggests her 
agreement to its contents. So, I think its more likely than not Ms R would have been aware 
she had a choice about buying the PPI policy and that she chose to take it out.
 
Nationwide didnt recommend that Ms R take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. Instead Nationwide had to provide information that was clear and not misleading so 
that Ms R could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But based on what I know about Ms Rs circumstances and the cost of the 
policy, I dont think better information would have stopped her from buying it.
I say this because Ms R was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Ms R at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Ms R could have found the policy useful. I say this because Ms R told us she 
couldnt recall what company sick pay she would have received. But the policy could have 
paid 10% of the balance for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work, or if she lost his job. 
This cover would have paid out in addition to whatever sick pay Ms R may have received, 
and Ms R told us she had no other means she could have relied on in the event of long term 
ill health, or if she lost her job. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Ms R. 
Some policies funded by a single premium gave a limited rebate if cancelled early. Having 
looked over this policys cancellation terms, I can see that does not apply to Ms Rs cover.
So, I dont think that Ms R lost out as a result of anything Nationwide might have done 
wrong. This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide didnt need to disclose the commission it received, 
so Nationwide doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Ms R paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit taken out and still running at certain times. From the 
information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply in this case. And 
so, it falls outside of the scope for our consideration. So, I dont think Nationwide have to 
refund any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman