DRN-3423293
The complaint
Mr P complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Trusttwo irresponsibly provided 
him with an unaffordable loan.
What happened
TrustTwo provided Mr P with a loan as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayable
May 2015 £3,500 60 £121.98 £7,319.05
The stated loan purposes were debt consolidation  in other words, Mr P said he would use 
the loan to repay other debt  and also pay for vehicle repairs 
When Mr P complained to TrustTwo it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ps complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr P disagrees with our investigator and he has asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. There are some general principles 
and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needed to think 
about whether there was any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable 
way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether TrustTwo did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr P and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did TrustTwo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ps 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown?
Did TrustTwo make a fair lending decision?
TrustTwo gathered some information from Mr P about his income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It also checked Mr Ps credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history.
TrustTwo worked out a figure it felt fairly reflected Mr Ps average income based on the 
information he had provided in his application and recorded this as £1,800. It allowed for his 
rent payment each month plus an allowance to cover his general living expenses.
TrustTwo saw from its own credit checks that Mr P was already spending around £197 on 
his existing credit commitments per month. Taking all this into account and thinking about 
what his new loan with TrustTwo was going to cost him, it calculated that Mr P should still 
have around £475 spare cash left over each month. It concluded that the monthly 
repayments for its loan were affordable for Mr P.
On these figures alone, I can see why TrustTwo concluded that the loan looked potentially 
affordable for Mr P. But TrustTwo also needed to think about the bigger picture and carefully 
consider if the loan was likely to be affordable for Mr P over the whole term. 
TrustTwo had largely relied on income and expenditure information provided by Mr P. Its 
credit checks showed that Mr P had recently missed some payments to his credit card which 
seemed to be at odds with what TrustTwo might have expected to see, given that it 
understood Mr P had plenty of disposable income each month. This shouldve alerted 
TrustTwo to the possibility that Mr P might be having problems managing his money. 
Bearing in mind also the loan term and amount, I think TrustTwo ought to have been 
concerned enough to do more in-depth checks before it agreed to provide this loan. 
But although I dont think the checks TrustTwo did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I also need to be able to say that if TrustTwo had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, 
these would have shown TrustTwo that Mr P couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Mr P has sent me some bank statement information so Ive looked through this to help me 
understand what TrustTwo was likely to have found out about his overall financial situation 
had it carried out more in-depth checks.
I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows TrustTwo would have 
decided not to agree this loan had it done so. The month before he took out this loan it looks 
like he received an amount of pay that was £130 more than the average figure TrustTwo had 
relied on when assessing affordability. So I cant fairly say that better income checks would 
have resulted in TrustTwo realising the loan wasnt affordable.
And although there isnt much information showing how Mr P was spending his money 
generally in the period running up to him taking out this loan, I think its fair to say that it 
doesnt look like he was in serious financial difficulty. 
He wasnt for instance significantly or persistently overdrawn so far as I can see from the 
information he has provided. And I think that is borne out by the information TrustTwo saw in 
its credit checks which showed that Mr Ps two current bank accounts were being managed 
well and without any overdraft facility in place. 
So that didnt suggest he was in serious financial difficulty. And TrustTwo was aware from its 
credit checks that there werent any serious black marks on his credit file  no bankruptcy or 
county court judgements for instance. His overall amount of credit didnt seem excessive for 
someone in Mr Ps financial situation.
On balance, I dont think the recent missed payments were enough of a reason not to lend 
this loan to Mr P. It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit 
history showing other borrowing or even sometimes an impaired credit record  and these 
things wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application that otherwise looked affordable. 
In coming to my decision, I have also taken into account that TrustTwo understood that at 
least part of the loan would be used to pay some of Mr Ps existing credit commitments. 
I think in these circumstances TrustTwo was reasonably entitled to take a view that this 
suggested Mr P was borrowing specifically to help him manage his finances more 
responsibly  and it looked like he ought to be able to afford to do that on the figures it 
worked out. 
Thinking about everything, I am unable to safely conclude that TrustTwo gave Mr P a loan 
that it should have realised was unaffordable for him. And for the reasons set out above, Im 
not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr P, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 Susan Webb
Ombudsman