DRN-3770706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA PPP Limited hasnt fully settled a claim they made on a 
private medical insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs L are represented by a solicitor.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties and so I havent set them 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to the key issues.
Mr and Mrs L hold a private medical insurance policy. Mrs L was suffering from kidney 
problems and required surgery. In February 2021, Mr L contacted AXA and provided it with 
the relevant procedure code  which was for ureter reimplantation surgery. AXA confirmed 
this procedure was eligible.
In late April 2021, Mr L contacted AXA again. At this point, Mr L explained that the surgery 
was due to be carried out robotically. AXA had approved the standard procedure though, so 
it told Mr L it would need more medical evidence from the treating doctor and the hospital. It 
also told Mr L that robotic surgery might not be covered.
Having assessed the medical information, AXA concluded that while it would cover the cost 
of conventional surgery, it wouldnt cover the cost of the robotic element. Thats because it 
said there was insufficient evidence to show that the use of a robot provided a better clinical 
outcome. So it said that the cost of the robot element of the surgery wasnt eligible for cover. 
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with AXAs decision. They said Mrs Ls treating doctor had told 
them that using a robot was the most efficient and medically advisable method of carrying 
out the surgery she needed and that it was used for NHS patients. Mrs L underwent 
robotically assisted surgery in June 2021.
AXA paid Mr and Mrs L what it wouldve paid for the cost of the standard surgery. But it still 
declined to cover the robotic element of the surgery, which left Mr and Mrs L with a 
significant shortfall. However, it did think thered been some delays in the assessment of Mrs 
Ls claim and so it paid Mr and Mrs L £250 compensation to reflect the upset this had 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy with AXAs position and so their representative asked us to 
look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. Ultimately, she felt 
that medical evidence showed that standard surgery provided a similar therapeutic outcome 
to robotic surgery. So she considered AXA had been entitled to rely on its policy terms to 
limit settlement to the cost of standard surgery. She noted that when Mr L first spoke to AXA 
about the surgery, hed given the standard procedure code. He hadnt mentioned that the 
surgery would be carried out robotically until late April 2021. And at that point, hed told AXA 
that hed cover any shortfall in surgery costs. So she thought Mr and Mrs L had been made 
aware that the robotic element of the surgery might not be covered and had chosen to 
undergo the surgery regardless.
Additionally, the investigator noted that Mr and Mrs L felt that AXA shouldve been aware of 
the type of surgery that had been recommended for Mrs L. But the investigator considered 
AXAs records and noted that the procedure code itd been given at the outset referred to 
standard surgery. And its internal records of approved specialists didnt state Mrs Ls 
consultants specialism in robotics.  She added that while Mr and Mrs L had also claimed for 
their solicitors fees, we are a free service and Mr and Mrs L hadnt needed to use 
representation to bring their complaint to us.
Overall, the investigator felt that AXA had settled the claim fairly.
Mr and Mrs Ls representative disagreed on their behalf, and Ive summarised their 
response:
AXA shouldve told Mr and Mrs L from the beginning that it didnt think robotically 
assisted surgery provided a clinically enhanced outcome;
They queried why, if the clinical outcomes were similar for both types of surgery, the 
NHS used robotics to carry it out. They felt that if Mrs L had had to undergo standard 
surgery, she wouldve been in hospital for longer and at risk of contracting Covid-19;
At the outset, AXA only asked Mr L for the procedure code. It didnt ask for anything 
else. So they questioned what more Mr and Mrs L could have done;
Mr L had confirmed he would cover the shortfall in surgical costs, as he was 
concerned about Mrs L. This was a desperate attempt to keep the surgery dates as 
planned. He wasnt aware there was an alternative surgical option and at this point, 
AXA didnt tell him that it might cover the claim partially;
Mr and Mrs L werent in good enough health after the surgery to pursue this claim or 
complaint themselves, and they struggled with IT. So they put this matter in the 
representatives hands;
Mrs L is still suffering from mental health issues following the seriousness of her 
operation and due to the stress caused by AXAs poor communications and service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L, I think AXA has treated them 
fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs L that while Ive summarised their complaint and their 
solicitors representations to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and provided. 
Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point thats been raised and nor 
do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
It's clear that Mrs L has been through a worrying illness and surgery and Im sorry to read 
about the impact this had had on her. I do hope that she is now recovering well.The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether 
AXA treated them fairly.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr and Mrs L and AXA. The policy says that AXA will cover the cost of eligible 
treatment, which is defined on page 12 of the policy booklet. This definition includes the 
following limb (amongst other limbs):
Eligible treatment is treatment of a disease, illness or injury where that treatment:
Does not cost more than an equivalent treatment that is as likely to deliver a similar 
therapeutic or diagnostic outcome.
In my view, AXA has clearly defined what it means by eligible treatment in the terms of the 
policy. And in this case, AXA considers that robotically assisted surgery costs more than 
standard treatment but doesnt provide an enhanced clinical outcome. Instead, it considers 
that both forms of the surgery deliver similar therapeutic outcomes. Therefore, it concluded 
that the robotic element of the surgery wasnt eligible treatment and accordingly wasnt 
covered by the policy terms. So Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for 
AXA to draw.
AXA is reasonably entitled to decide what risks it does and doesnt want to cover and to 
calculate premiums according to its view of that risk. Its provided us with copies of reports 
from medical journals which compare clinical outcomes using both standard laparoscopic 
and robotic surgery. These reports broadly conclude that both types of surgery result in 
similar outcomes. I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on such reports when deciding 
whether or not Mrs Ls robotic surgery should be covered. And I also find it was reasonable 
for AXA to rely on such reports to conclude that given the therapeutic outcomes appear to be 
the same for both robotic and standard methods of surgery, the additional cost of robotic 
surgery wasnt eligible treatment under the policy.
This means that I think, under the terms of its contract with Mr and Mrs L, AXA was 
reasonably entitled to limit its claims liability to the cost of standard surgery. 
Did AXA provide Mr and Mrs L with clear and fair information?
Like the investigator, Ive carefully listened to the calls between Mr L and AXA. Copies of 
these calls were also sent to the representative ahead of this decision being issued. On 22 
February 2021, Mr L contacted AXA to discuss the likely of Mrs L needing the ureter 
implantation surgery (dependent on the outcome of a scan). During the call, Mr L gave AXA 
a procedure code for that surgery. Ive seen evidence from AXA that that code refers to 
standard ureter implantation surgery  which is eligible under the policy. Ive seen too AXAs 
records for Mrs Ls treating specialist. Theres no reference to their particular specialisms 
and its not my role to tell AXA what information it must record about medical professionals 
which it doesnt employ or control.
Mr L didnt mention the possibility that the surgery would be carried out robotically during the 
call. And given the code he did mention was for standard surgery, I dont think there was 
anything to put AXA on notice that the consultant intended to carry out the surgery using a 
robot. So I dont think AXA needed to ask Mr L anything more about the surgery during this 
call. As such, it seems it was reasonable for AXA to tell Mr L that the surgery was eligible at this point.
It wasnt until 28 April 2021 that Mr L told AXA that the surgery would be carried out 
robotically. At this point, AXA made it clear not just that it would need further medical 
evidence to assess the claim, but also that the claim might not be covered. While I can 
entirely understand why Mr and Mrs L wanted to ensure the surgery could be carried out as 
planned, it seems to me that Mr L knew there was a chance that the claim might not be paid 
and the reasons why. And he told AXA that he would meet any shortfall in the cost. This 
means Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs L had decided to proceed with the robotic surgery 
despite knowing that it might not be eligible treatment under the policy.
Mr and Mrs L provided AXA with the medical evidence it required a short time later. Having 
assessed that evidence, AXA decided to limit the claim payment to the cost of the standard 
surgery. While there was a delay of a few days in confirming its final position to Mr L, I think 
AXA made it clear to him on 20 May 2021 that the robotic element wouldnt be covered. Mr 
and Mrs L opted to go ahead with the surgery a couple of weeks later knowing that theyd be 
responsible for paying the shortfall. So I think they were given enough information in a 
reasonably timely way to make an informed decision about what steps to take. 
Based on all Ive seen; Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for AXA to limit settlement 
to the cost of the standard surgery it considered to be eligible. This means Im not directing it 
to pay anything more for the costs of robotic surgery. If Mr and Mrs L have concerns that 
AXA may have incorrectly settled the costs associated with the standard surgery, its open to 
them to obtain a breakdown from the hospital to check whether any standard costs have 
been omitted and to send this on to AXA for consideration.
Compensation and legal fees
AXA considers there were some delays in its communications with Mr and Mrs L. So it paid 
them £250 compensation to recognise this. In my view, this was a fair and reasonable award 
from AXA to recognise a short period of poor customer service.
Mr and Mrs L have also claimed for their legal fees. As our investigator explained, we are a 
free service and consumers dont need representation to bring their complaints to us. We are 
able to make adjustments for the accessibility needs of our customers. So while I appreciate 
why Mr and Mrs L may have wanted legal representation, I dont find it would fair or 
reasonable to award these in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ls position, I find that AXA has 
treated them fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman