DRN-2643159
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) 
reported information about his repayment history on his credit file.  
What happened
Following repayment of three loans with Satsuma, Mr M took out two more loans, one in 
April 2017 and the other in September 2017.  
Mr M made regular payments towards these two instalment loans until November 2017. 
Whilst Mr M then didnt make any payments in December 2017, I understand a Debt 
Management Plan (DMP) was arranged through a third party and he started making reduced 
payments to Satsuma through the DMP from January 2018.  
Mr M feels that his credit file should show these two loans as defaulted in line with guidance 
issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) rather than showing that he is subject 
to a DMP. He says this because loans are more than six months in arrears. He has told us 
that other creditors have reported defaults within six months of the start of the DMP. 
Mr M feels that the failure to record defaults will adversely affect his credit rating. This is 
because he says the debt will stay on his credit report through a DMP for longer than it 
would have done had defaults been reported.  
Our adjudicator feels that Satsuma has reported the status of Mr Ms loans correctly. He 
didnt think Mr Ms repayment difficulties were significant enough to report defaults.   
Mr M disagrees with the adjudicators assessment and has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed.    
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
principles for reporting repayment difficulties 
The ICO is the body set up to deal with a customers personal information. 
In July 2016 it released an updated paper called Principles for reporting of Arrears, 
Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies. This document set out principles 
for lenders (which Satsuma is one) when reporting information to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs). 
Understandably, the ICO requires that information reported on a credit file is ..fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date and where regular payments are not made by the 
agreed date, principle two of the document says:
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears. If this continues over time, the level of reported 
arrears will increase, which may result in the lender taking some form of action. This 
could include notification of their intention to report the account as defaulted. 
It's not in dispute that Mr M wasnt paying his regular contractual repayments for the agreed 
amount. So, considering these principles in connection with Mr Ms repayment history, Im 
satisfied that it was fair for Satsuma to report his arrears to CRAs.
Should Satsuma record defaults  as Mr M says?
Principle four of the ICO guidance explains that generally a default may be recorded when 
you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by the time you are 6 months in arrears. 
In this case Mr M didnt make a payment towards either loan in December 2017. So, at this 
point he was not in arrears long enough for a default to be recorded. An agreement was then 
reached for Mr M to repay the loan through his DMP.
The ICO guidance says that where a DMP is accepted by a lender ..the record filed at the 
credit reference agencies must reflect that the consumer is on a DMP. I understand that is 
what happened in this case. 
I accept that strictly speaking Mr Ms loans were in arrears, in the sense that he was paying 
less than the contractual repayments and that this had now exceeded six months. But 
principle four of the ICO guidance also sets out that a default shouldnt be recorded where 
..an agreement is reached for an arrangement and you keep to the terms of that 
arrangement.  
Looking at the credit file Mr M has provided he was making payments through the DMP. Mr 
M said his repayments were up to date when he submitted his complaint and since then he 
hasnt told us this position has changed. 
So overall, taking on board the ICO principles, Im satisfied that Satsuma acted reasonably 
by not registering one for Mr Ms loans. There doesnt seem to have been any significant 
arrears prior to the DMP. And in line with the ICOs principles   the record then filed by 
Satsuma with the credit reference agencies appears to fairly reflect Mr M is on a DMP.   
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. I hope though that he has found my 
explanation as to how Ive reached my decision helpful. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman