DRN-4069749
The complaint
Mrs H complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) arent able to tell here where her savings 
from 2001 have gone.
What happened
Mrs H had a savings account with Santander which she accessed via a passbook. The last 
entry in the passbooks corresponds with a bond reinvestment form she completed on 15 
June 2001. She wants to know where that money invested in the bond in 2001 has gone.
Santander told her the records showed this account was closed. And a search of their 
records was unable to find any trace of this or subsequent accounts. After Mrs H complained 
to us Santander were able to find some records showing further reinvestments but the last of 
these was closed in 2008.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. He thought on the evidence provided 
Santander had reinvested Mrs Hs money as requested up and until 2008 when the final 
bond matured and the account was closed. So, on balance, he thought it had followed Mrs 
Hs instructions.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
decision. She said her only instruction to Santander was to reinvest into a bond on 15 June 
2001. She said there was no further contact with her form this point and re iterated her 
concerns that the money had been stolen. 
Santander responded to my request for further information and confirmation of certain 
checks.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive decided this isnt a complaint I can uphold. Ill explain why.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete or inconclusive and I cant know exactly 
whats happened, Ive decided whats more likely to have happened, at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities.
Finding a previously lost passbook or a photocopy of it doesnt automatically mean the 
account is still open. Where theres been no contact with the account holder for an extended 
period a business can take the step of closing it. The account details, including the amount it 
held when closed, would then be recorded on the business dormant account register. That 
means, if Mrs Hs account had either remained open or was closed on the basis it was 
dormant there would be a record at Santander. 
Santanders provided evidence of the searches it completed when trying to trace Mrs Hs 
account. The systems searches include details of Mrs Hs personal information like name 
and address - which shes told us has remained unchanged since 1970. The systems 
searches also include evidence Santander checked its dormant account register. I can 
confirm the information Ive seen shows no trace of an open or dormant account in Mrs Hs 
name or at her address. 
In his view the investigator has summarized the historical movements shown in Santanders 
records of Mrs Hs funds up to closure in 2008. Im satisfied thats an accurate summary so 
shant repeat it here. Looking at that information, although Mrs H says she has seen no 
movements since 2001 Im persuaded a number of reinvestments has taken place since. 
The last transaction was carried out in 2008 which itself was a long time - some 15 years - 
ago. That closed the account. I understand Mrs H has no records or recalls that she received 
any communication about the accounts. But just because she now has found a photocopy of 
the passbook and reinvestment form from 2001 doesnt mean these transactions didnt take 
place. Even if Mrs H has a photocopy of the passbook in question, Im satisfied these 
transactions could have taken place as the account that passbook related to was itself was 
closed by the reinvestment in 2001.
On balance, I think, its more likely than not, the money in the account was withdrawn or 
transferred by Mrs H and then closed in 2008. I appreciate theres no direct record, but Im 
satisfied the passage of time means the information that wouldve shown how Mrs Hs 
account was closed is no longer available. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs H but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with her complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman