DRN-3318342
The complaint
Mrs S complained about how Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) handled a claim on her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S has been represented in this complaint by Mr S but Ill refer to Mrs S throughout as 
the policy is held in her name.
Mrs S had an accident in her car in June 2021 causing damage to the front bumper and 
grille. Her car was repaired by one of Tescos approved repairers, but Mrs S was unhappy 
because she didnt think her car was repaired well enough.
Mrs S asked Tesco to inspect the car so they sent an approved engineer out in July 2021 
who looked at the car and agreed that two areas that had been worked on by the repairer 
still needed to be rectified. The Tesco approved engineer  revisited shortly after and noted 
that the two areas had been fixed to an acceptable standard, but in fixing the damage it had 
emerged that part of the bumper did not align with other bodywork on the car. Tesco say this 
is because the bodywork had been previously poorly repaired so the bumper and the 
bodywork would not align properly. Tesco says that this previous repair was nothing to do 
with Mrs Ss claim so could not be covered under her policy with Tesco.
Mrs S disagreed and said that the repairs had not been completed. She obtained her own 
report from a different engineer who carried out a visual inspection in October 2021. Mrs Ss 
engineer said there were some issues with alignment between the bonnet and front bumper 
possibly due to a damaged front bumper member or missing foam, and that the front grille 
was loose due to missing clips.
Tesco have maintained their position that the remaining mis-alignment is due to pre-accident 
damage so not covered under the policy.
Mrs S is also unhappy that she was not given the opportunity to have her own repairer fix the 
car after the accident.
Our investigator thought that Tesco had acted fairly. She said Mrs Ss policy wording 
showed that Mrs S could have chosen her own repairer and when she rang Tesco to make 
the claim she didnt ask any questions about using her own choice of repairer.
Our investigator also said that she felt Tesco had acted fairly because theyd carried out the 
repairs to a satisfactory standard. She didnt think it would be fair to ask Tesco to repair 
anything that was present prior to this incident.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view and her complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Mrs S said she was unhappy with not being able to choose her own repairer rather than 
Tescos. Ive listened to the call and read the policy wording and I agree with our investigator 
that Mrs S had the opportunity to ask questions about this but chose to not do so, so I wont 
be asking Tesco to take any actions about this.
The incident happened in June 2021 and I can see from the information I have that repairs 
were carried out promptly to Mrs Ss car. Having had the car returned, she noticed some 
problems with the alignment of the bumper and grille. She raised this with Tesco who 
arranged for their engineer to inspect the car at the repairer. The engineer found that there 
were problems with the repair that required further rectification, which took another two days. 
While I appreciate that Mrs S would have found these repairs inconvenient, I think that 
Tesco attempted to fix the problem efficiently once they realised that there was an issue.
However, Mrs S maintains that the car was then returned to her in the same condition as 
before, even though I can see from Tescos engineers photographs that the panel gaps had 
improved from the time of his first visit.
Mrs Ss complaint to Tesco was not upheld by Tesco as the engineer had found pre-existing 
accident repairs that meant that the bumper could not align correctly with the bodywork of 
the car, and specifically with the right-hand wheel arch and wing. This existing damage 
appears to relate to the arch and wing area of the car and I can see evidence of some 
damage from the photographs I have been supplied. 
Mrs S then arranged for her own engineer to inspect the car but this didnt happen until 
October 2021. The engineer she used carried out a visual inspection only without removing 
any parts for a closer look. I have copied Mrs Ss engineers comments below:
1/ The gaps between the bonnet and front bumper on the right hand side are 
different to the left hand side. Possibly due to the front bumper member being 
damaged.
2/ Front grille is loose and a locating clip is damaged. New clips required.
3/ You can visibly see a gap between the bumper member and the front bumper, 
This may be due to the member being damaged or a bumper foam missing.
Ideally Mrs Ss engineer would have carried out a more thorough inspection of the car in 
order to demonstrate that certain parts were missing or still damaged. But given the 
information I have I can see that the reports from both engineers dont seem to agree with 
each other. I think this is because Mrs S instructed her engineer to inspect areas in October 
that werent necessarily looked at by Tescos engineer in July 2021. 
Tescos engineer focused primarily on the alignment problem of the right-hand wheel arch, 
mentioning only that the grille had been refitted to an acceptable standard. It is possible 
that Tescos engineer didnt notice the loose grille and associated damage, so I think its fair 
to ask Tesco to refit the grille, replacing the locating clips as required. 
I also think its reasonable to ask Tesco to inspect and repair damage to the front bumper 
member relating to the incident of June 2021 and replace the bumper foam if necessary. I 
am minded to mention that work carried out in this area may mean that the bumper does not 
align correctly with the wheel arch and as Tesco have previously discovered pre-accident 
damage in this area, it is my opinion that further work to realign the panels would remain the 
responsibility of Mrs S.
Response to my provisional decision Mrs S and Tesco have both agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision, then my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to arrange with Mrs S for her car to be returned to its approved repairer and pay for 
inspection and repair of the grille and bumper in line with the terms and conditions of its 
policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman