DRN-3386511
The complaint
Mr M brings this complaint on behalf of N ( a company) in his capacity as Director of that 
company. N complains that Arbuthnot Latham & Co., Limited (Arbuthnot) acted unfairly when 
it decided to close the companys bank accounts.
What happened
Mr M says having only recently opened banking facilities for N with Arbuthnot, which was 
subject to extensive due diligence and considerable documentation being provided around 
its business model, N was informed by Arbuthnot at the beginning of April 2021, it no longer 
wished to continue the banking relationship. Mr M says he was shocked by Arbuthnots 
decision especially as he had gone to lengths, prior to the bank accounts being opened, to 
explain how the business operated. Mr M says this decision was at a very challenging time 
for the company as it was dealing with demands of Brexit and the impact of the Covid 
pandemic. 
Mr M says it was very difficult for the company to find new bankers during this time. Mr M 
says he had to spend a considerable amount of time and effort trying to arrange for new 
banking facilities and Arbuthnot put him under a great deal of unnecessary stress and worry. 
Mr M says Arbuthnot  knew from the outset, given the extensive information it was provided 
with, how the business and bank accounts would operate and whom it would do business 
with. 
Mr M says Arbuthnot were at fault for not understanding the information it was provided with 
prior to the account being opened and it should compensate the company for the time, effort 
and costs incurred in addition to the stress and worry he has gone through over this matter. 
Arbuthnot says while it was provided with comprehensive information from N prior to the 
account opening, it hadnt understood the level and type of transactions that would be 
passing through the bank accounts and this had proved to be beyond its risk appetite. 
Arbuthnot accepts this has caused inconvenience to the business in having to make 
alternative banking arrangements and offered £250 to reflect that, but it had provided a 
reasonable period of time for N to find alternative bankers and provided additional time for 
that to happen. Additionally, Arbuthnot have pointed out it acted in accordance with its terms 
and conditions when closing the bank accounts.
Mr M wasnt happy with Arbuthnots response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator while recognising the inconvenience caused to N in having to open new bank 
accounts elsewhere, says Arbuthnot was entitled to close the bank accounts and it had 
provided reasonable notice to do so. The investigator felt the offer of £250 was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
Ill start by saying that I can see that its frustrating for Mr M to hear that our service isnt able 
to consider the stress he suffered personally. But it is N who is Arbuthnots customer, and 
the complainant here. As a limited company, N is a separate legal entity from Mr M. As a 
result, this service can only consider loss or inconvenience suffered by N, and a company 
cannot suffer distress.  
That said, when looking at this complaint I will consider if Arbuthnot acted fairly when it took 
the decision to close N s bank accounts with them. 
Mr M and Arbuthnot have provided this service with comprehensive details of the course of 
events here and while that has proved helpful, I wont be commenting on every point made 
as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and impartial decision here. Thats not 
to say I havent considered everything said and sent to us  I have. 
Ns complaint centres around the decision Arbuthnot took to close the banking relationship, 
when prior to its opening only a month or so before, it had been provided with 
comprehensive information surrounding the business model, activity and Ns customer base. 
Mr M feels Arbuthnot are at fault for not questioning this information when it completed its 
extensive pre account opening due diligence. Mr M says Arbuthnots actions have caused 
considerable problems for N at a difficult time following the changes in Brexit regulations, 
along with the additional pressures of the Covid pandemic. Mr M says Arbuthnots offer of 
£250 in compensation for the time and effort to establish a new banking relationship, doesnt 
go nearly far enough. 
I understand the points Mr M makes and its fair to say that Arbuthnot hadnt properly 
considered the ongoing management and potential activity of the bank accounts going 
forward, when it agreed to open them for N. So while I accept it could have done a better job 
of that at the outset, which seems to be accepted by Arbuthnot themselves, thats not to say 
once it had understood what was required of it to maintain the banking relationship, it wasnt 
able to make a decision to end it. 
I says this because not only is that detailed in the terms and conditions of the bank account 
under section 4.14.2, its also fair to say banks like Arbuthnot are entitled to decide whom it 
does business with, in the same way N would be able to change its bankers without reason. 
What is important here is whether Arbuthnot having made that decision, gave a reasonable 
period of notice to N to make alternative arrangements  and Im satisfied it did that. I say 
this as while accepting this was during the Covid pandemic, which affected customers and 
businesses alike, even though under its terms and conditions Arbuthnot only needed to 
provide 60 days-notice, ultimately during the ongoing discussions with N, it ended up 
providing around five months to get this done.
I was pleased to hear that N have now managed to open new banking facilities with another 
provider. 
Mr M feels the compensation offered of £250 is insufficient, but here I can only consider if 
Arbuthnot were at fault for closing the bank account and for the reasons I have already given, I cant say it was. Although I can see it was inconvenient for the business to have to 
make alternative banking arrangements, Arbuthnot were at liberty to ask that of N here. 
Even so, it has offered £250 to acknowledge the inconvenience caused and given the fact it 
agreed to work with N to extend the time to make those arrangements, Im satisfied that is 
sufficient here. 
Mr M has provided this service with copies of the legal costs the business incurred, but its 
fair to say the decision to employ solicitors was one the business chose to take, so I cant 
hold Arbuthnot responsible for that. 
While Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Arbuthnot 
here and I will leave it with Mr M to contact them if he wishes to accept the compensation 
payment it previously offered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman