DRN-2411580
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) provided after a non-fault 
car accident. Reference to UKI includes its agents. Mrs H states that her car key wasnt 
broken when her car was collected for repair but was returned to her broken. Mrs H wants 
UKI to replace her key.
What happened
Mrs H had a non-fault accident early in 2020. UKI accepted the claim and arranged for the 
repairs to be completed. Mrs Hs car was collected by a driver and taken to the insurers 
approved repairer. 
Mrs H says her car key wasnt broken when she handed them to the driver. The driver says 
it was already broken when she handed it to him. He says Mrs H even warned him about the 
issue with the key. The insurers approved repairer says the key fell into two parts when they 
received it, so they taped the key together. Mrs H complained to the insurers approved 
repairer when she collected her car as the key didnt work. The insurers approved repairer 
offered her £50 as a gesture of goodwill towards a replacement key. But the insurers 
approved repairer said they didnt break the key and neither did the driver. Mrs H didn't 
accept this and brought the claim to us.
Our investigator didnt recommend UKI cover the cost of replacing the key. She said she 
hadnt seen evidence to show Mrs Hs key had been damaged, or likely to have been 
damaged, during the repair process. Our investigator noted that the insurers approved 
repairer offered Mrs H £50, but as this wasnt enough to repair or replace the key Mrs H 
didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H doesnt think her key was broken before her car was collected for repair after her 
accident. But I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that the insurers approved 
repairer or the driver damaged, or are likely to have damaged, the key. 
The insurers approved repairer photographed the key in its broken state on the morning the 
car arrived with them. But it didnt mention the broken key in the accident damage report 
they produced for UKI. Mrs H queried why the broken key wasnt marked on the accident 
damage report as broken. The key wasnt broken in the accident, so the fact that it arrived at 
the insurers approved repairer broken wouldnt have appeared on the accident damage 
report. So I think its right that it wasnt mentioned.
The insurers approved repairer has offered £50 towards a replacement key. Its common 
practice to make a small offer like this as a gesture of goodwill when something is disputed. 
It doesnt show the insurers approved repairer or the driver broke the key. I know Mrs H may 
be disappointed this offer cant be increased so it covers the full cost of a replacement key. 
But I havent seen any evidence that the key was broken by the driver or the insurers 
approved repairer. If Mrs H would like to accept the £50 she will need to contact the insurers 
approved repairer.
Ive considered what Mrs H, UKI, its approved repairer and driver say and have provided. I 
accept its possible the insurers approved repairer or the driver did damage her key. But for 
me to fairly say it should pay for a new one, Id need to think it probably did cause the 
damage. But I havent seen enough to make me think that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Joanne Occleshaw
Ombudsman