DRN-3848557
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made an error which changed the name on her 
personal accounts she held with them, to her husbands name.
What happened
Mrs R has a current account, savings account and credit card in her name with Lloyds. She 
took out a home insurance policy with her husband, but she noticed both applicants under 
the policy were showing under her name, so she notified them and told them that the second 
applicant should be in her husbands name. They said they would make the changes and 
send her a revised policy. 
Mrs R says that she received an email on 17 May 2021 from Lloyds about her credit card 
regarding a change of name, but this was addressed to her husband. She says days later, 
he received a Lloyds credit card which contained the same card details (apart from the name 
on the card) as Mrs Rs card. She said they also changed the other accounts to her 
husbands name. She tried to contact Lloyds to speak to them about this, but they wanted to 
speak to her husband, since the accounts were now in his name and they were told they 
needed to go into the branch to sort out the issue. 
Mrs R says that she and her husband had to make several visits to the branch, even taking 
time off work to resolve the situation and she couldnt access her online banking to make 
payments, which resulted in her having to visit the branch to do this. She had to change her 
user identification and other online security measures as her original details didnt work. She 
says the branch staff didnt change all of her accounts back into her name which meant she 
needed to go back to the branch a week later. Mrs R made a complaint to Lloyds. 
Lloyds upheld Mrs Rs complaint and apologised. They said the accounts had now been 
changed back to her name and sent her a cheque for £200. Mrs R brought her complaint to 
our service as she feels the compensation doesnt reflect the stress she went through. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Rs complaint. She said the issue started in May 2021. So this 
matter shouldve been resolved when both Mrs R and her husband visited the branch on 
12th June 2021, with their correct identification. She said Mrs R and her husband were
going back and forth unnecessarily and the advisor shouldve taken the responsibility to
follow this up when they met with her on 12th June. She said while Mrs R said that she was 
busy in the month of July due to work commitments, this matter couldve been resolved 
much sooner. She said a total of £300 compensation should be paid for what happened. Mrs 
R asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that the undisputed fact is 
that she suffered undue stress and anxiety due to Lloyds actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear to me that Lloyds have let Mrs R down here. They made an error which had a wider 
impact in changing her name on her sole accounts to her husbands name. She was unable 
to access her online banking because of this and Ive listened to a call where the call handler 
wasnt able to resolve this for her. So I can understand the distress and inconvenience that 
Mrs R has endured, through no fault of her own.
She has had to make multiple trips to the branch. I understand that there may have been 
occasions where Lloyds werent able to progress matters such as Mrs Rs husband not 
having the required identification when they visited the branch, and that things were delayed 
due to work commitments for Mrs R. But this shouldnt take away from the crux of what 
happened here. 
When considering the amount of compensation, I need to take into account the impact the 
errors reasonably wouldve had on the complainant. Our rules only allow us to award 
compensation to the complainant themselves, so I cant factor into my decision any 
inconvenience or distress these events had on Mrs Rs husband, only Mrs R herself.
Im satisfied that what happened would be distressing. Mrs R in effect lost control of her own 
accounts, her credit card in her name was replaced in the name of her husband with the 
same card details as her own, she was unable to access her online banking with her own 
credentials, and shes detailed this meant she had to visit the branch to ensure bills were 
paid. So not only would she be distressed by what happened here, she was also 
inconvenienced by having to visit the branch on multiple occasions to resolve this.
So Ive considered what compensation would be fair and reasonable here. I know Mrs R 
feels that a total of £300 compensation is not enough for the stress and anxiety she has 
went through as a result of Lloyds actions. But compensation is a discretionary remedy that 
we sometimes award if we feel that a business has acted wrongfully and therefore caused 
distress and inconvenience to their customer over and above that which naturally flows from 
the event. When we recommend compensation, it is often modest and within our established 
guidelines.
Im persuaded £300 is fair for what happened here, and Im persuaded that it recognises the 
impact of the distress and inconvenience that Mrs R will have suffered as a result of Lloyds 
error. Im satisfied that this recognises that Mrs R has had to visit the branch on several 
occasions and the phone calls she made to Lloyds to get this issue resolved, not to mention 
the distress she will have experienced on more than one occasion. Im aware that Lloyds 
have previously issued a cheque for £200. It appears Mrs R hasnt deposited this cheque. If 
she didnt, then the cheque will have likely expired and a new cheque/payment will need to 
be issued, So it follows Ill be asking Lloyds to put things right. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator has suggested that Lloyds pays Mrs R a total of £300 compensation (which 
includes the £200 cheque that had been offered), which I think is fair in the circumstances. 
Im persuaded this reflects the impact on Mrs R for the impact of the errors that Lloyds 
made.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mrs R an extra £100 compensation to 
total £300 if she has already deposited the cheque. If she hasnt deposited the cheque, 
Lloyds should cancel the original cheque and they should pay Mrs R £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman