DRN-2857980
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires (referred to 
here as BM) refused to extend the term on his buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage. Mr P says this was 
unfair and discriminatory.
What happened
Mr P has two BTL mortgages with BM. One was taken out in 2005 on an interest-only basis 
over a term of 15 years. He initially borrowed just over £183,000. In 2016 Mr P took out a 
further advance of £44,600 over a term of 4 years 8 months  ending at the same time as 
the main advance. The mortgage term on both the main and further advances was due to 
end on 13 December 2020. 
Mr P has another BTL mortgage with BM which was due to end in 2021. In December 2018 
he was able to extend the term of that mortgage by a further ten years, to end in December 
2031.
In early 2019 Mr P spoke to his mortgage broker, as he and his broker were in the process 
of reviewing his portfolio. The broker explained to Mr P that, as the mortgage ending in 2020 
had less than two years left to run on the term, he (the broker) wasnt able to apply to extend 
the term  and Mr P would have to contact BM himself.
Mr P contacted BM in October 2019, and a term extension was considered. However, this 
was declined. This is because Mr P didnt meet BMs term extension criteria, which had 
come into effect in March 2019. This criteria said that, where there was less than two years 
remaining on the mortgage term, the term could only be extended for 40 years (or up to the 
borrowers 80th birthday, whichever came first), provided the rental income and loan-to-value 
ratio (LTV) met BMs criteria.
The rental income and LTV didnt meet BMs criteria and Mr P wasnt able either to increase 
the rent or to reduce the LTV. As a result, BM wouldnt extend the term. Mr P complained to 
BM but the complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr P repaid the mortgage in March 2021. He also complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, saying BMs policy was unfair and that hed been discriminated against on the basis 
of his age.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She was satisfied 
BM had applied its term extension policy fairly to Mr P.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that its unfair 
that a borrower with two years and one day left on the term can get an extension just by 
asking but a borrower who is just under the two-year cut-off point has BMs unfair policy 
applied to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will begin by explaining that BM is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that BM 
makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular term 
extension request, and whether it should extend the term and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for BMs own commercial judgement that I would not interfere with. 
Additionally in deciding whether to extend the term, BM is entitled to take account of its own 
interests when making such decisions. It is not obliged to take account only of the interests 
of the borrower.
I appreciate Mr P believes BM has treated him unfairly. His submissions highlight all the 
issues hes unhappy about, and Ive taken into account everything hes said. But I dont think 
BM has treated him unfairly. These are my reasons. 
Where a complaint is about the application of an internal policy and the exercise by a lender 
of its commercial judgment in the way the policy has been applied, my role is to decide 
whether that policy has been applied fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my own 
judgement for that of BM. In other words, I have to decide if BM took into account all relevant 
factors and gave proper consideration to them before reaching its decision. It is only if I 
thought no lender could reasonably have made the decisions BM made in this case that 
there would be any basis for intervention on my part.
BM has provided documentation about its underwriting of the application and about its term 
extension policy. Im entitled to treat this as confidential, because it is commercially 
sensitive. But after considering this information, Im satisfied that BM reached its decision 
fairly, after taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, 
exposure to risk, and Mr Ps specific circumstances.
Mr P didnt meet BMs criteria for the term extension, and so Im satisfied hes not been 
treated differently from any other customer in the same circumstances. BM applied its policy 
to his application fairly. I fully appreciate that Mr P wasnt aware of any change in BMs 
policy, but lenders arent required to contact borrowers every time an internal policy change 
takes place. 
Mr P says hes been discriminated against on the basis of age. Im not persuaded this is the 
case. The evidence shows that the term extension couldnt be agreed because it didnt meet 
BMs affordability criteria rather than because of Mr Ps age. But in any event, as the 
investigator explained, if Mr P considers BM has breached the Equality Act 2010 this would 
be a matter for the courts, not the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for, and I do understand why  when he was 
able to get a term extension on his other mortgage in December 2018 which had more than 
two years of the term left to run  hes not been able to on this mortgage when, to him, the 
circumstances are identical. But after taking everything he and BM have said into account, 
for the reasons given above, I dont think BM has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman