DRN-2483038
The complaint
 Mr A is unhappy BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has supplied him with a 
car which he believes wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also complains he was mis-led about 
the cars fuel consumption.
 
What happened
 In May 2019, Mr A acquired a brand-new car which he financed through a 48 month hire 
purchase agreement with BMWFS. The cash price of the car was over £39,200 and it was 
first registered in May 2019. 
Within a few weeks, Mr A said he complained about a number of issues and hes returned 
the car to the dealership on several different occasions since then. In summary, he reported 
the issues as follows:
1. Radar wasnt working;
2. Entertainment system wasnt working;
3. The car only provides approximately 30 miles per gallon (MPG);
4. Creaking noises coming from the front and back seats;
5. Rattling sound from the engine; 
6. Whistling sound when the heater is on high;
7. The auto boot opening function isnt working;
8. The sun roof isnt working;
9. He had to pay an extra £1,000 towards the deposit when taking out the finance; 
10. The registration on the finance agreement was wrong;
11. The guaranteed asset protection (GAP) and tyre insurance werent set up;
12. His complaint had been handled poorly by BMWFS.
In November 2019, the car was returned to the dealership and email correspondence 
between Mr A and BMWFS suggest repairs were carried out to fix a rattle from the rear of 
the car and the creaks from the leather seats. The dealership also said Mr A complained 
about a noise when driving which they heard during a road test but werent able to reproduce 
it again. Mr A said the car was at the dealership for approximately four weeks and he wasnt 
provided with a courtesy car. 
Despite these repairs, within a short time thereafter, Mr A said the issues with the creaking 
noises from the seats and engine remained and the car still wasnt delivering the correct 
MPG. The manufacturer offered to refund one month repayment as compensation but Mr A 
wasnt happy with this and declined the offer.  
An independent inspection report was carried out at the start of February 2020 and the car 
was taken on a 200 plus mile road test over a period of three days. At that point, it had 
covered over 5,400 miles. The report concluded there was a loud creaking noise from the 
back seats when driving on uneven road surfaces and further investigation was required to 
identify the cause. The inspection also determined the car returned around 48 MPG. 
Mr A again returned the car to the dealership and they found the noises from the back seat 
originated from the boot lid and adjustments were made. The rattling from the engine was 
found to be from insecure cables which they then secured. In relation to the whistling noises, 
the heater was reset to the automatic settings and clips were replaced to stop the drivers 
door panel from rattling. These repairs were covered by the warranty. However Mr A 
complained issues remained thereafter. Unhappy with the repairs, he requested to reject the 
car. This didnt happen but further repairs were carried out to fix the boot lit, noises from the 
engine and a pillar seal in February 2020.  
Mr A complained to BMWFS and referred the complaint to our service. The investigator 
partially upheld the complaint. They said a diagnostic test was needed to identify the source 
of the noises from the seats. They also acknowledged there were times Mr A was left without 
a courtesy car and recommended that he should be reimbursed one months contractual 
payment. BMWFS said road tests had been carried out and the independent inspection 
report concluded the MPG was expected for the make and model of the car. In relation to the 
noises from the seats, they said it had been addressed and Mr A was provided with a 
courtesy car while the repairs were carried out. In relation to the further reported issues, 
BMWFS said these couldnt be reproduced. 
Upon further review, the investigator reached a second opinion and determined BMWFS had 
one chance to repair the faults and this had failed. They said based on the numerous issues, 
they didnt believe the car was of satisfactory quality and BMWFS should allow Mr A to reject 
it and be refunded two monthly repayments for loss of use of the car while it was being 
repaired. BMWFS didnt provide a further response.
Since then, Mr A has provided evidence that in August 2020, the car was subject to a 
manufacturer recall and the cars track rods were replaced. Also in October 2020, a window 
panel was replaced and the battery was reprogrammed. These were covered by the cars 
warranty. Most recently in December 2020, he returned the car to the dealership for a 
number of issues including the creaking seats and a burning smell when the heater is on.  
Based on the number of returns to the dealership for repairs to be carried out, Mr A said he 
has been without his car for around two months and he was only provided with a courtesy 
car for approximately one week.
In January 2021, I issued my provisional decision and said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to uphold Mr As 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr A acquired a car under a regulated hire purchase agreement. BMWFS is the supplier of 
the goods under this type of agreement meaning they are responsible for a complaint about 
the supply and the quality of the car.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, the 
price and all the other relevant circumstances. In a case involving a car, the other relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of supply and the cars history. In this case, Mr A was supplied with a brand new car so it would be reasonable to expect the 
quality of it to be higher than a more well used one and it would be free from defects and for 
a significant amount of time. 
Faults with the car
Mr A reported a number of issues from the outset such as the entertainment system and 
radar not working along with creaking noises from the seats. We havent been provided with 
all the evidence such as job cards from the repair in November 2019, but what we do know 
is there have been a number of ongoing issues such as the rattling noise from the engine 
and new issues including the auto boot function not working, amongst other things. 
Ive already set out what a reasonable person would expect from a new car and that includes 
it being free from defects and for a considerable amount of time. In this case, I wouldnt 
expect a brand new car which had travelled such few miles to experience such issues. 
Ive considered the information provided by Mr A, job cards, notes from the dealership and 
the findings of the independent inspection, specifically the reference to the creaking noises 
of the seats. Taking everything into account, Im not satisfied the car was of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied meaning there was a breach of contract. 
There have been a number of repairs carried out and on different parts of the car but despite 
this, Mr A maintains there are still issues including the rattling from the engine and creaking 
noises from the seats. Based on the videos, pictures and further job cards, Im not 
persuaded the repairs have resolved all the faults. On balance, I believe there are still issues 
with the car meaning it isnt conforming to the contract. Considering all that has happened 
with the numerous repairs, I think its now fair to allow Mr A to reject the car. 
Miles per gallon (MPG)
Mr A said he was mis-led about the cars fuel consumption. A misrepresentation is a false 
statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter a contract. 
At this point, I must stress that a cars MPG can be affected by different variables such as 
driving style, car maintenance and weather conditions. Generally speaking, tests are carried 
out in laboratory conditions and it is used for illustrative purposes so comparisons can be 
made from one manufacturer to another. As its a guide, it is reasonable to expect there will 
be some difference between the advertised figures and what it produces in normal driving 
conditions. 
There is conflicting evidence about how much MPG the car is actually producing. Mr A has 
provided video evidence showing its producing around 30 MPG. However the manufacturer 
said there is nothing wrong, the independent inspection determined the car delivered 47 
MPG and it didnt mention there was an issue that made it less economical than it should be.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe the discrepancy is significant enough to say a 
misrepresentation has occurred, nor am I persuaded the advertised MPG induced Mr A to 
acquiring the car.
How to put things right
As I dont believe the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied, Mr A should be 
allowed to reject the car. To put things right, the finance agreement should be ended, the 
deposit amount refunded plus 8% simple interest per year added from the payment date up 
to the date of settlement.  There is no evidence to suggest Mr A was kept mobile while the car was being repaired in 
November 2019 and based on his correspondence it would appear he was left without a car 
for around four weeks. Since then, the car has returned to the dealership on numerous 
occasions meaning Mr A hasnt had use of his car. Therefore I believe he should be 
refunded two months repayment as compensation. 
While I appreciate there were faults and the car didnt perform as expected there isnt 
enough evidence to suggest the car wasnt driveable and its off the road. The most recent 
job card in December 2020 indicates the car is still be driven. As Im satisfied Mr A was still 
able to drive the car, its fair that he should pay to reflect this. With the exception of the 
refund of two months payment, I wont be asking BMWFS to provide a full refund for the 
other contractual payments. I believe it is reasonable for them to refund 10% of the monthly 
payments paid from August 2019 (when the issues were first reported) onwards to reflect the 
impaired use of the car and ongoing nature of the faults.
I accept at times Mr As calls and correspondence went unanswered which led to frustration 
and based on the evidence I believe it wouldve been fair to allow him to reject the car at a 
much earlier stage following the failed repairs. Having taken into account the impact on Mr A 
including the numerous returns to the dealership, I think BMWFS should pay £250 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Im sorry to hear Mr A experienced several issues with the car and it didnt perform as 
expected. This was a brand new car and there is no doubt there were issues which I dont 
believe a reasonable person would expect to occur. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr A and BMWFS were invited to respond to my decision and both parties accepted my 
findings. Therefore Ive reached the same decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint and ask BMW 
Financial Services(GB) Limited to:
- End the agreement;
- Arrange collection of the car at no cost to Mr A;
- Refund the deposit amount plus pay 8% simple interest* per year from the date it 
was paid up to the date of settlement;
- Refund two months payment for the loss of use; 
- Refund 10% of the monthly repayments for the impaired use of the car from August 
2019 up to the date of settlement;
- Remove adverse information about this hire agreement from Mr As credit file;
- Pay £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr A.
*If BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. 
It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman