DRN-3333145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that West Bay Insurance Plc unfairly turned down their 
business interruption insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H held a business interruption insurance policy with West Bay. They claimed on 
their policy after their business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response 
to the pandemic. 
West Bay declined Mr and Mrs Hs claim. It said the policy covered business interruption due 
to a notifiable disease manifesting itself at their premises, but it thought theyd closed to 
comply with Government Regulations rather than because of a case of Covid-19 at their 
premises. 
Unhappy with West Bays response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. 
They said theyd closed their business on 18 March 2020 in advance of the Government 
Regulations because Mr H had an underlying medical condition and the Governments 
advice had been to shield. They thought the policy should provide cover as theyd taken out 
cover for notifiable diseases. Mr and Mrs H also complained about the sale of their policy.
Our investigator asked Mr and Mrs H if anyone at their premises had Covid-19. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt indicate that anyone at their premises had Covid-19 and said their complaint 
was that the Government had forced businesses to close as they thought that every 
premises could be harbouring or spreading Covid-19. 
Mr and Mrs H later told us that their lodger (who lived with them at the insured business 
premises) had symptoms of Covid-19. They said the lodger had contacted 111 online and 
been given a self-isolation note. Mr and Mrs H provided us with a copy of the note dated 
13 April 2020, GP records to support that the lodger was suspected of having Covid-19, 
evidence of the lodger having contacted 111, and a bank statement to support that the 
lodger lived at their premises. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as 
she didnt think there had been a case of Covid-19 at their premises before they were 
required to close by Government Regulations. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. Mr H said hed also had symptoms of Covid-19 and thought hed 
caught it from the lodger. Mr and Mrs H provided a letter from Mr Hs nurse dated 
23 April 2020 which said hed reported having symptoms of Covid-19 a few weeks ago.
Mr and Mrs H also said that due to the nature of their business theyd been allowed to 
remain open for key workers and had kept a couple of rooms open for key workers either 
side of their lodgers illness, only closing during the illness and for periods of deep cleaning. 
However, they said there were unable to show evidence of any bookings due to them being 
in the past.
Our investigator reconsidered the information and said while Mr H and the lodger possibly 
had Covid-19 and were at the insured premises, the requirement to close was in place 
before either of them were unwell. Therefore, she didnt think Mr and Mrs H had shown it 
was most likely theyd been required to close by a case of Covid-19 at their premises. 
Mr and Mrs H asked for an ombudsmans decision. They thought it was unfair to ask them 
for information to support that their business had closed due to a case of Covid-19 
manifesting at the premises due to the amount of time that had passed since the closure.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have also complained about the sale of their policy. Thats been dealt with 
separately, so in this decision Im only going to comment on their complaint about West Bay 
turning down their claim. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs Hs business. However, I wont be upholding their complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if West Bay has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
The relevant extension in Mr and Mrs Hs policy covers:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable 
human disease manifesting itself at the Premises
Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises would need to be as a result of a 
case of Covid-19 manifesting at the premises. I think a court would most likely find that for a 
case of Covid-19 to have manifested at the premises someone would either need to have 
been diagnosed with Covid-19 or been displaying symptoms at that time. 
Widespread testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of 
Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a 
positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
manifested itself at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that theyve suffered a 
loss their policy covers.
Mr and Mrs H have provided information to support that both Mr H and their lodger had 
Covid-19. However, while its possible they had Covid-19 Im not going to make a 
finding on it. Thats because for me to uphold this complaint Id need to be satisfied that any cases of Covid-19 manifesting at the premises were the reason for the closure or 
restrictions placed on their premises. 
On 24 March 2020, the Government announced that businesses such as Mr and 
Mrs Hs should have taken steps to close apart from for limited reasons. Although I 
understand they closed prior to this due to Mr Hs health concerns. So, in order for me 
to say that the Governments announcement was as a result of a case of Covid-19 
manifesting at Mr and Mrs Hs premises, Id need to be persuaded its most likely there 
was a case at their premises before 24 March. 
However, I think that the suspected cases of Covid-19 manifested at Mr and Mrs Hs 
premises after 24 March. I say this because the information from 111 shows the lodger 
got in contact on 13 April and Mr and Mrs Hs testimony supports that they were unwell 
in April rather than before their business was required to close. So, I dont think that 
either Mr H or the lodgers illness were cases which led to the Governments decision 
to require their business to close.
Mr and Mrs H said that Covid-19 was most likely everywhere. However, I dont think 
the general prevalence of the disease is enough to persuade me that a case most likely 
manifested itself at their premises before they were required to close. 
Mr and Mrs H have also said that they kept a couple of rooms open for essential 
workers as allowed by the Government. I havent seen anything other than their 
testimony to support this and it isnt something that they told either West Bay or our 
service about when raising their complaint. But even if this is the case, the Government 
didnt change the restrictions in April, following the potential cases of Covid-19 at Mr 
and Mrs Hs premises.
Therefore, Im not persuaded that any requirement for Mr and Mrs Hs business to 
close, or any other restrictions placed on their business, was as a result of a case of 
Covid-19 manifesting at their premises.   
I recognise this isnt the answer Mr and Mrs H were hoping for but, having considered 
the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require West Bay to pay their claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman