DRN-4451844
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has excluded ongoing cover for a medical 
condition under a personal private medical insurance policy because it concluded his 
condition had become chronic.
What happened
Mr B has held a personal private medical insurance policy with Aviva for many years. In 
March 2023, he made a claim on the policy for Crohns Disease. Hed been diagnosed with 
Crohns Disease several years previously.
Aviva considered that Mr Bs Crohns Disease was a chronic condition. And it said chronic 
conditions were specifically excluded by the policy terms. However, it recognised that it had 
incorrectly previously provided cover for Mr Bs condition, including covering surgery hed 
undergone several years previously. So it agreed to provide cover for claims relating to Mr 
Bs Crohns Disease for a further six months  until 30 September 2023, to allow him to 
transition to treatment under the NHS.
Mr B was unhappy with Avivas decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She thought it had been fair 
for Aviva to conclude that Mr Bs Crohns Disease was a chronic condition. And she also felt 
it had acted fairly and reasonably by providing Mr B with a six month period to transition to 
NHS care.
Mr B disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt that the 
investigators conclusions had been biased. He said that hed been diagnosed with Crohns 
Disease after the policy was taken out and he questioned whether hed been covered then. 
He told us that hed always been open with Aviva that he had Crohns Disease. He felt that 
six months of further cover was an arbitrary date and that in fact, he should have been given 
a further ten years of cover for Crohns Disease. He said hed had little time to find 
alternative cover. He also mentioned that he would require treatment shortly after the grace 
period ended. He felt Aviva should cover his costs for the treatment he required. Finally, he 
was unhappy that Aviva hadnt allowed him to reduce his policy excess or upgrade his 
hospital list at the 2023 renewal.
The investigator let Mr B know that she felt it had been reasonable for Aviva to decline to 
reduce his excess or upgrade his hospital list at renewal. Thats because she concluded that 
Aviva had acted in line in with its policy terms and its underwriting criteria.
Mr B didnt think Aviva had made its terms relating to changes at renewal sufficiently clear.  
He said hed previously been able to change his excess, but it seemed that Crohns Disease 
was the problem. He still felt that given the time hed held the policy, Aviva should have 
provided cover for Crohns Disease beyond 30 September 2023. And he queried whether 
the policy had been mis-sold to him, given hed been tied to a policy which wouldnt allow 
him to amend the excess or hospital list.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I dont think Aviva has treated him 
unfairly and Ill explain why.
Its important I make it clear that this decision will only be considering whether Aviva treated 
Mr B fairly when it classified his condition as chronic and when it declined to amend his 
excess and hospital list at the 2023 renewal. Mr B has now questioned whether the policy 
was mis-sold to him. However, it doesnt appear that Mr B has previously asked Aviva to 
consider a complaint about the sale of the policy and so it doesnt appear that its had a 
chance to look into this issue. Under our rules, an insurer must be given an opportunity to 
investigate and respond to a complaint point before we can potentially help with it. So this 
means I wont be considering the way the policy was sold to Mr B as part of this decision. Mr 
B would need to raise this particular point with Aviva if he took out the policy directly or, if he 
took out a policy through a broker, then hed need to complain to the policy seller.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive independently and impartially 
considered, amongst other things, the terms of Mr Bs policy and the circumstances of his 
claim, to decide whether I think Aviva treated him fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Bs 
contract with Aviva. Its clear from Mr Bs policy certificate that Aviva provided cover on a full 
medical underwriting basis. This means that it excluded certain pre-existing conditions from 
cover when it offered Mr B his policy. Crohns Disease wasnt one of the medical conditions 
Aviva specifically excluded at the point it underwrote Mr Bs policy. This means it didnt 
consider this condition to be pre-existing.
Page one of Mr Bs policy is titled Treatment covered by your policy and it explains that 
Aviva will cover the treatment of acute conditions and explains how Aviva defines an acute 
condition. Immediately underneath, Aviva has set out the following term:
The policy does not cover chronic conditions.
The contract says:
A chronic condition is defined as a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
In this case, I understand Mr B was diagnosed with Crohns Disease around 16 years ago. 
Aviva covered the cost of surgery to treat this condition in 2013/2014 and it appears that Mr 
B has undergone other treatment and been prescribed medication on the NHS since that time. As such then, it seems to me that it was fair for Aviva to conclude that Mr Bs Crohns 
Disease met more than one of the limbs set out in the definition of a chronic condition. I say 
that because it appears that Mr B has required ongoing monitoring and treatment for Crohns 
Disease over a number of years and his symptoms appear to have recurred. As such then, I 
dont think Aviva acted unfairly when it concluded that Mr Bs Crohns Disease was a chronic 
condition and therefore, wasnt covered by the policy terms.
I appreciate that Aviva previously paid for treatment of Mr Bs Crohns Disease. It now says 
that Mr Bs previous claims should also have been turned down due to the chronic nature of 
his illness. I can see from the 2013 terms which applied at the time of Mr Bs surgical claim 
that chronic conditions were defined in the same way and that they were also excluded. So it 
does appear that Aviva accepted and settled Mr Bs 2013/2014 claim in error.
However, just because Aviva wrongly settled Mr Bs claim in 2013/2014 and didnt exclude 
cover at that point, it doesnt mean that Aviva became obliged to provide cover for Mr Bs 
Crohns Disease indefinitely. Strictly, it was entitled to decline further cover in March 2023. 
But it decided to provide Mr B with a further six months of cover for Crohns Disease  up 
until 30 September 2023. This six month period was to allow Mr B to transition his care to 
the NHS. In my view, this was a very fair and reasonable response from Aviva, which was 
outside of the policy terms and conditions. And although its unfortunate that Mr B has 
required treatment after 30 September 2023, I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could direct Aviva to pay treatment costs incurred after the end of the six-month 
period.
It's clear that Aviva classed Mr Bs condition as chronic close to the date of his renewal. I 
appreciate he says he wasnt left with enough time to look for a policy which would cover 
Crohns Disease. In my experience, most, if not all, private medical insurance policies 
exclude cover for chronic conditions and most policies define chronic conditions in a very 
similar way. I think it was open though for Mr B to look elsewhere for cover if hed wished to 
do so.
Mr B is also unhappy that Aviva declined to allow him to reduce his policy excess or upgrade 
his hospital list at the 2023 renewal. Ive considered this carefully. The contract terms set out 
a section called Renewing Your Contract. This section includes the following:
If you wish to make any changes to your policy, for example adding or removing options, 
please contact us. We will review the claims that we have paid, the medical history, and the 
current health for each member when deciding whether you can make these changes. 
In my view, this term is clear and not misleading. I think the contract makes it clear that 
Aviva will review a policyholders claims and medical history when deciding whether or not 
its prepared to make any requested changes to the policy. So Im satisfied that Aviva has 
sufficiently highlighted that it wont automatically accept a policyholders request to change 
their cover at renewal.
Aviva has provided us with evidence of the underwriting guidance it took into account when it 
considered whether or not to allow Mr B to reduce the policy excess and upgrade his 
hospital list. Ive carefully considered this evidence - which Im afraid I cant share with Mr B 
because it's commercially sensitive and therefore, its confidential. And, having done so, Im 
satisfied that based on its underwriting criteria, Aviva has demonstrated that it was 
reasonably entitled to decline to reduce Mr Bs excess or upgrade his hospital list. Im 
persuaded too that Aviva has shown that it treated Mr B in same way it would have treated 
any of its other customers in the same situation and that therefore, it hasnt unfairly singled 
him out in any way. Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr Bs position, I dont think that Aviva has treated him 
unfairly. So it follows that Im not directing Aviva to provide further cover for Mr Bs Crohns 
Disease or to pay any costs associated with that condition which were incurred after 30 
September 2023. Nor am I directing Aviva to reduce Mr Bs policy excess or to upgrade his 
hospital list.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman