DRN-4243280
The complaint
Mr H and Mr M are unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited did following claims they
made on their legal expenses insurance policy in relation to disputes with their neighbours.
What happened
Mr H and Mr M contacted Amtrust about difficulties with their neighbours in October 2018. I
decided a previous complaint about what happened between then and October 2020 when
counsels opinion was obtained on the claims prospects of success. That opinion found only
a property damage element of the claim had reasonable prospects of success but Mr M
would ned to provide further information on who was responsible for that damage.
Subsequently Amtrust agreed to fund counsels opinion on whether a claim relating to
property damage caused by access issues would have reasonable prospects of success. In
June Mr M and his solicitors advised Amtrust of further developments which included issues
relating to a water supply and a planning application made by the neighbours. His solicitors
sought Amtrusts views on this and requested further funding for counsels opinion.
Amtrust expressed concern at the amount of funding already committed on a claim that
hadnt yet been accepted. Mr M was also concerned about this and subsequently told
Amtrust he had instructed an alternative firm of solicitors. Amtrust advised in July that Mr M
should contact it if prospects of success for his claim were confirmed. And if the claim was
proportionate to pursue it could look to cover costs retrospectively (subject to these being
assessed). However, it said it wouldnt be providing further funding at this stage.
Mr Ms new solicitors contacted Amtrust and it provided clarification as to the indemnity limit
remaining under the policy. In June 2022 Mr Ms solicitors provided counsels opinion to
Amtrust (dated December 2021). They sought funding to defend a compensation claim that
had been made against Mr M (relating to the water supply) and a claim made against Mr H
for harassment. And they queried whether the policy would cover a claim relating to an
extension at the neighbours property.
Amtrust said the dispute in relation to the proposed extension (and other matters covered in
that opinion) werent covered by the policy. And the policy didnt cover the defence of a
claim. It would only consider funding a defence claim where the insured had a counter claim
which was inextricably and inseparably linked to it. The only claim the policy might cover was
an action to force the neighbour to remove a car that was restricting Mr Ms access to his
property. But counsel hadnt confirmed this claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success
in percentage terms. So it didnt think cover was available for this.
Our investigator agreed the defence of a claim wasnt covered under either the property
infringement or property damage sections of the policy. It might be fair for Amtrust to cover it
where the insured had a counter claim but he thought there would need to be relationship
between the claims. He didnt think that was the case here. So although the defence claim
was assessed by counsel as having reasonable prospects of success he didnt think Amtrust
acted unfairly in not providing funding for this. And he agreed there wasnt cover for the
claim relating to the extension the neighbours were building.
However, he thought it Mr M wanted to pursue the access claim that could be covered under
the terms of the policy. And although counsel hadnt expressed his opinion in percentage
terms he thought he had confirmed it would enjoy reasonable prospects of success. So he
thought Amtrust should consider that claim against the remaining terms of the policy.
Amtrust said having reviewed counsels opinion it didnt think it was clear there were
prospects of success for this claim. And it was reasonable of it to ask for prospects of
success in percentage terms. Mr M expressed concern about the overall handling of the
claim and said Amtrust had changed position on the circumstances in which theyd consider
the defence of a claim.
Our investigator issued a further view in which he said:
Given the amount Amtrust had spent on the claim without prospects having been
confirmed it was reasonable of it to say in June 2021 it wouldnt be providing further
funding until that was confirmed.
Amtrust had changed its position in relation to the circumstances in which it would fund
the defence of a claim. But he explained why he didnt think it would in any case be fair
to expect it to do so on the basis of the criteria it initially set out.
Mr Ms concerns about what damage should be covered under the provisions of his
home insurance policy (which was underwritten by a different insurer) didnt form part of
his complaint.
Mr Ms concerns about the actions of the law firms involved in the matter werent
something we could consider.
In relation to Amtrusts point about the clarify of counsels opinion he said if it had wanted
to establish prospects of success in percentage terms it could have clarified that with
counsel itself.
Mr M told us he didnt have further comments as the points hed made had been considered;
he also welcomed clarification our investigator provided about the actions of the second firm
of solicitors involved in the case.
Amtrust didnt agree. It said it had spoken to panel solicitors who didnt agree counsel had
confirmed prospects of success for the access claim. And as they werent the client of
counsel they werent able to approach him themselves; this was something Mr M would
need to do.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Amtrust has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate this matter has been ongoing for some years and it has clearly caused both
Mr M and Mr H considerable distress. Im aware of Mr Ms significant health problems which
I dont doubt will have exacerbated the impact of all this on him. But the question for me is
whether there have been any failings by Amtrust in period Im considering (since October
2020). And what the impact of any failings has been on Mr M and Mr H.
Having reviewed the file it does seem to me that a number of the points Mr M has raised
relate to the actions (or inactions) of the solicitors acting for him. That isnt somethingAmtrust is responsible for. As our investigator explained those are matters he can raise with
those firms and potentially the Legal Ombudsman if hes unhappy with their response.
Turning to the actions of Amtrust I can see our investigator addressed the concerns Mr M
raised about this in correspondence with him. Mr M hasnt disagreed with those points in the
further response he then provided. And I agree Mr M and Mr H havent lost out as a result of
anything Amtrust got wrong.
In particular I appreciate Amtrust did agree to obtain a further counsels opinion (and
authorised funding for this). But it appears that funding paid for costs Mr Ms solicitors had
incurred. Amtrust had concerns about whether this fell within expenditure it had authorised. It
appears Mr M also concerns about that firms expenditure which led him to instruct an
alternative firm. I dont think it was unreasonable of Amtrust to say it wouldnt be providing
further funding at that stage given that prospects of success hadnt been confirmed despite
costs of over £20,000 being incurred. I appreciate there might be questions over how Mr Ms
solicitors spent the funds which Amtrust authorised but I think thats something hell need to
raise with that firm if he hasnt already.
I also think it was reasonable of Amtrust to say if it was established the claims had prospects
of success and were proportionate to pursue it would look to cover costs retrospectively. I
dont think in doing so Amtrust was making a commitment to cover all future claims which
had prospects regardless of whether they were covered by the policy; the starting point for
any claim (and prior to a consideration of prospects) is always whether an insured event
under the policy has taken place.
Mr M also says Amtrust had changed its position on the circumstances in which a defence
claim would be covered. Amtrust did say in July 2021 that it would consider funding a
defence claim if you are counterclaiming or could have issued a claim for nuisance,
trespass or damage first. That is different to what it said a year later when it told Mr M it
would only cover a Defence that satisfies all policy requirements where the Insured has a
counterclaim and they are inextricably, inseparably linked.
The starting point here is that the relevant sections of the policy only cover the pursuit of
claims. So defending a claim isnt covered. But I agree in some circumstances it might be
appropriate to do so on a fair and reasonable basis. And I wouldnt necessarily agree those
claims need to be inextricably and inseparably linked in order for that to the case. But I do
think there needs to be a reasonably close connection between them. That isnt the case
here; for example I dont think there is a close enough relationship between the claims made
against Mr M and Mr H and the access claim. So even on the basis of the broader criteria
Amtrust set out in July 2021 I dont think it would be fair to ask it to fund the defence claims.
I think the outstanding issue for me to determine is in relation to the access claim (I
understand this relates to the neighbours car which Mr M argues impedes his access to a
gate). Amtrust said counsels opinion didnt confirm prospects of success for a claim relating
to this so it wouldnt provide funding for it.
And in common with other legal expenses policies its a condition of Mr Ms that for cover to
be provided a claim does have to have reasonable prospects of success. The policy says At
any time we may form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of winning the
case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further
support.
So the policy does define prospects in percentage terms and I dont think its in dispute that
counsel hasnt expressed his opinion on prospects in that way. But if it was nevertheless
clear from wording of the opinion that the claim did have reasonable prospects of success(even if that wasnt explicitly stated as a percentage) I think that should have been accepted
by Amtrust.
Ive reviewed counsels opinion and I dont think that is the case here. The opinion does say
there is no right to park in a way that permanently impedes use of the gate. However, it
goes on to consider whether the car is in fact parked and concludes that arguably its stored.
I cant see the opinion then reaches a clear conclusion as to what that means for the claims
prospects of success. It does conclude there will be a right if necessary to compel removal
of the permanently parked car but it doesnt give any context to the circumstances in
which that might be the case. I also understand Amtrust has consulted its panel solicitors
who didnt agree prospects of success for this claim had been confirmed by counsel.
So I dont think Amtrust should have accepted the claim on the basis of this opinion. And I
can see when it responded to Mr Ms solicitors it said its reason for not funding this claim
was because prospects hadnt been confirmed in percentage terms. But arguably it could
have done more to clarify this either by asking for Mr Ms consent to approach counsel or
asking him to obtain more information on this point.
However, Im not persuaded Mr M lost out because it didnt do that. His solicitors said in
response to Amtrusts email the access issue wasnt the subject of any current action and
wasnt something he was seeking cover for. I can also see our investigator suggested to
Mr M that if he did want to pursue this issue it might be helpful to ask counsel to express the
prospects opinion in percentage terms. It doesnt appear hes done that. If Mr M does want
to pursue this element of the claim it remains open to him to obtain clarification from counsel
on this. But unless he does that I dont think theres more Amtrust needs to do here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Amtrust said it had no further comments. Mr H and Mr M didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided comments which impact what I said in my provisional decision 
I dont have any reasons to alter the conclusions I set out in it.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 
10 August 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman