DRN-2538271
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as B complains that Society of Lloyd's (Lloyds) unfairly 
declined a claim under Bs business protection insurance policy.
Mr S who is a director of B brings the complaint on Bs behalf.
What happened
B holds a business protection insurance policy with Lloyds. Mr S made a claim on that policy 
to cover Bs losses arising from its closure as a result of the national Government-imposed 
lockdown in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Lloyds declined the claim. It said B didnt have cover for the losses it was claiming as 
COVID-19 isnt covered under the terms of the policy. Mr S didnt agree. He said he thought 
the wording of the policy, specifically the wording for specified illnesses, meant that Bs claim 
should be covered.
B complained to Lloyds but Lloyds explained that, although Bs policy would provide cover 
in the event of certain specified diseases causing closure, COVID-19 wasnt one of the 
named diseases. Mr S wasnt happy with this response so brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator considered Bs complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathises with Mr Ss situation, he didnt think there was cover available under 
the policy. Mr S didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B is looking to claim on its business protection insurance policy. There are a range of 
business protection insurance policies on the market covering a range of different risks. 
When considering whether Lloyds acted fairly in declining Bs claim, the starting point is to 
consider the specific policy B took out. 
Bs policy included an extension which Mr S purchased to cover infectious diseases. The 
policy states that it provides cover for business interruption in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any Government or local 
authority as a result ofany human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding 
Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by 
any person whilst at the Premises or within a 25 mile radius of the Premises
The policy provides a definition for the term Disease, which sets out a list of specified 
illnesses that are covered under the policy. However, COVID-19 isnt on that list.
Given COVID-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt 
expect it to be included in the list. But there are similar policies on the market that provide 
cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable diseases 
as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Bs policy is not like this  rather it sets 
out a defined list of the illnesses which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of 
the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new illnesses which might emerge. 
Lloyds has also explained that the wording of the policy was reviewed in 2016, when it 
commenced its relationship with the underwriter. Following this, the process for adding any 
new diseases to the specified list would include approval by a senior underwriter and a new 
version of the policy being produced to show the amended list of specified diseases. So I 
think Lloyds has deliberately set out a list of the specific illnesses it intended to cover.
The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover COVID-19. However, I dont think SARS and COVID-19 are the same 
disease. The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. 
And the World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses 
are different, and it announced that COVID-19 was the name of this new disease on 11 
February 2020. So based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same.
Mr S has referred to the Financial Conduct Authoritys test case which he believes should 
affect the outcome of his complaint but, as our investigator explained, Bs policy has a 
definitive list of specified diseases and this kind of policy wasnt the subject of the test case. 
I was sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact the lockdown had on B. But for 
the reasons outlined above, and having considered the remaining terms of the policy, I dont 
think Lloyds acted unfairly in declining Bs claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman