DRN-3319054
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Simplyhealth Access didnt treat her fairly in relation to changes in her 
private health insurance. Mrs P is represented in her complaint by her husband, who Ill refer 
to as Mr P. 
What happened
Mrs P has a cash plan health insurance policy, insured by Simplyhealth. Her policy usually 
renewed on 1 August.
On 9 September 2019 Mr P called Simplyhealth to advise that Mrs P had just received a 
renewal booklet dated July 2019. The booklet said her claiming year start date was changing 
to 1 September, and her premiums were increasing from £45.24 to £52.63 a month. As she 
had only just received the renewal booklet the changes had already taken place without 
Mrs Ps knowledge. Mr P told Simplyhealth it hadnt given Mrs P reasonable notice of the 
policy changes and had hidden the premium increase in small font within the document.
On 12 September 2019 Simplyhealth called Mr P to discuss Mrs Ps policy. It said the poilcy 
renewal booklet for Mrs P should have been sent sooner. As her new policy and increased 
premium had already started before she got the information about the policy changes it 
offered Mrs P £25 compensation to apologise, which Mr P agreed on her behalf. Mr P says 
in that call Simplyhealth told him it would re-instate Mrs Ps existing policy and premiums to 
the end of December 2019 and would contact him to see if Mrs P would like to start the new 
policy or cancel the policy. That didnt happen and the new policy that had started in 
September 2019 continued with the increased premium. 
Mrs P wants Simplyhealth to refund all her increased premiums, pay her compensation for 
the period she was unable to make any claims on the policy due to the change in claiming 
dates and compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its poor service. She 
would also like Simplyhealth to apologise for its poor service. 
Simplyhealth apologised that the policy booklet arrived much later than anticipated. It said it 
had offered Mr P to postpone the start of Mrs Ps new policy but had also asked him to 
contact it about what she wanted do. As he didnt contact Simplyhealth the new policy 
continued from September 2019.
Our investigator recommended Simplyhealth refund the difference between the increased 
premiums and the original premium from September 2019 to December 2019. She said  
Simplyhealths letter to Mrs and Mr P after the call about the policy changes reasonably led 
Mr P to believe Simplyhealth would contact him to confirm what Mrs P wanted to do about 
the start date of her new policy, which didnt happen. But our investigator said there wasnt 
any evidence that Mrs Ps new policy start date of September 2019 had caused any issues 
with her ability to make between September 2019 and December 2019. And our investigator 
though that Simplyhealths payment of £25 compensation to Mrs P was a reasonable 
amount for the distress and inconvenience it caused her due to the policy changing before 
she was notified. 
Simplyhealth agreed our investigators recommendation. Mrs P didnt agree and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. Mr P added that he and Mrs P had made other complaints to 
Simplyhealth as a result of this complaint and Simplyhealth hadnt sent us details about 
those. Our investigator explained that her recommendation was just about the complaint 
Mrs P originally made to us.
Before I made my decision we contacted Simplyhealth to say that in addition to telling it to 
refund the difference between Mrs Ps increased and the original premiums from September 
2019 to December 2019 I was intending to tell it to pay interest at our usual rate on the 
difference. Simplyhealth agreed to pay the interest. 
Our investigator spoke to Mr P to see if Simplyhealths new offer meant Mrs P considered 
that her complaint had been agreed. Mr P said Mrs P would accept the settlement offer but 
she thought Simplyhealth should have agreed to settle on that basis from the start of her 
complaint  and wants it held to task. Our investigator explained it isnt our role to punish 
businesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only about Mrs Ps policy. Mr P has made a complaint about his policy with 
Simplyhealth and Ive made a separate decision about his policy. 
I need to decide whether Simplyhealth acted fairly and reasonably to Mrs P. Mr P says 
Mrs P made other complaints to Simplyhealth as a result of this complaint but our 
investigator correctly explained those are separate matters. If Mrs P and Simplyhealth cant 
agree on those matters she can make a separate complaint to us.
In respect of this complaint, the policy says 
We can change any of the terms and conditions relating to the policy if we give you 
one months notice. This includes:
the cover the policy provides
terms and conditions
We will tell you about any changes in writing to your home address. We will not be
responsible if, for any reason, you do not receive them. You may cancel the policy in
accordance with section Simplyhealth.1 (How does cover end?) if you do not like the 
changes we have made.
Mrs P received her July 2019 renewal documents in September 2019. Due to the delay
in receiving the booklet her new policy had already started on 1 September 2019 and her
premium had increased. Simplyhealth apologised for the delay and I think it was fair and
reasonable for them to offer a £25 refund to Mrs P to acknowledge her upset and 
inconvenience that the policy change and increased premium had taken place before she 
had notice of the change.
I considered the relevant phone calls between Mr P and Simplyhealth and correspondence. 
In the 12 September 2019 call Simplyhealth apologises that Mrs P had received her new 
policy information later that it had planned and offered to delay the start of the new policy to 
29 December 2019 so she had time to use the entitlements under the policy. 
As Ive said, Simplyhealth fairly paid Mrs P £25 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience at her policy change being implemented before she got the information about the changes. Other than that I dont think she was disadvantaged by the delay in her 
receiving the information. Simplyhealth offered to postpone the start date of her new policy 
to the end of December 2019 which gave her about three months notice of the change, 
more than the one months notice its required to give under the policy terms.
During the call Mr P told Simplyhealth he and Mrs P needed to make a financial decision 
about what do about her policy. They spoke about the options. Simplyhealth said it would 
email Mr P with further information on the options and Mr P spoke of hypothetically delaying 
the transfer to the new policy to 29 December 2019. But in that call that Mr P didnt instruct 
Simplyhealth to definitely postpone the policy start date until December 2019. At the end of 
the call it was left that Simplyhealth would mail Mr P with further information which Mr P 
would consider and contact Simplyhealth to make any changes for Mrs P. 
Simplyhealths follow up email to Mr P outlined their conversation. However, importantly the 
end of the email said:
The next step will be for a member of our Customer Options to contact you, confirm 
some regulatory information and make the necessary amendments to your policies.
I think this is where the miscommunication between Mr P, on Mrs Ps behalf, and 
Simplyhealth happened. From the phone call Simplyhealth understood Mr P would contact it 
to confirm his instructions on behalf of Mrs P about her policy. But I find that Mr P could 
reasonably understand from the above sentence in the email that Simplyhealth would 
contact him to take the instructions. And Simplyhealth didnt tell Mr P in the call or the email 
that if he didnt provide instructions about Mrs Ps policy before 29 September 2019 the new 
policy and increased premiums would continue from 1 September 2019.  
Given Mr Ps reasonable understanding I appreciate why Mrs P was surprised when she 
found that the new policy had continued from September 2019. But theres no basis for me 
to say Simplyhealth should refund all her increased premiums as Mrs P knew that the latest 
her new policy could start was end of December 2019 and shes continued with the policy 
and claimed on it. 
So I think the fair remedy for Simplyhealth to put things right in respect of the premiums 
increase is for it refund to Mrs P the difference between the increased premiums and the 
original premium from September 2019 to December 2019 plus interest as Ive set out 
below. Simplyhealth has now agreed to do so. 
Ive also considered Mrs Ps concerns about the premium increase being hidden in the policy 
booklet in small font. Simplyhealth can make a commercial decision about how it wants to 
present its literature, but I would expect premium information to be clear to a consumer. The 
premium increase information is on page two of the document it says:
Important information..
To balance the rising costs of healthcare, weve made an increase to your cover 
levels and premium.
Page three of document gives the current and new premium. I understand Mrs Ps point 
about the font but I think the information was clear enough. 
As to Simplyhealths service, as Ive said above I think the £25 compensation it paid Mrs P 
was a fair amount for her distress and inconvenience due to her policy being changed before 
she had information about the change. Mr P raised some additional concerns he had about 
Simplyhealths service in relation to how it dealt with him about Mrs Ps and his policies. Ive 
considered those in my decision on his complaint about his policy as he isnt an eligible 
complainant in respect of Mrs Ps policy so even if I thought Simplyhealth hadnt given him 
reasonable service I couldnt award compensation for any impact he experienced in relation 
to her policy.As to Mrs Ps claims during the relevant period, the evidence is she was able to make claims 
which were paid between September 2019 and December 2019. I dont have evidence that 
she was disadvantaged in her claims by the new policy starting in September 2019 rather 
than December 2019. If Mrs P thinks she was disadvantaged she would need to make a 
separate complaint to Simplyhealth about that matter first and if agreement couldnt be 
reached she could make a separate complaint to us.
I appreciate Mrs P is annoyed that Simplyhealth didnt agree to offer this settlement sooner. 
But were not the industry regulator and it isnt our role to fine or punish business, our role is 
to decide a consumers complaint about a business. I dont generally award compensation 
just because a consumer has had to complain, and theres no basis for me to do so in 
Mrs Ps circumstances. For the reasons Ive given above I think the settlement Simplyhealth 
has now agreed to pay is fair. 
Putting things right
Simplyhealth must refund the difference between Mrs Ps increased policy premium and the 
original premium from September 2019 to December 2019 plus interest as Ive detailed 
below.
My final decision
I partly uphold this complaint and require Simplyhealth Access to refund the difference 
between Mrs Ps increased policy premium and the original premium from September 2019 
to December 2019 plus interest* at Simplyhealth% simple a year from September 2019 to 
the date of settlement.
*If Simplyhealth Access considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs P how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman