DRN-4290069
The complaint
Miss W complains that Wise Payments Limited didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In June 2022 Miss W saw that a friend had shared a link on social media regarding an 
opportunity to invest in cryptocurrency. She had seen cryptocurrency endorsed in the media 
by well-known celebrities and assumed the opportunity would have been vetted by the social 
media platform.
Miss W clicked on the link which took her to a website for a company Ill refer to as V which 
traded in Forex exchange, commodities, and cryptocurrencies. She didnt see any negative 
reviews or other information to raise concerns, so she completed the online enquiry form 
before receiving a call from someone claiming to be a financial advisor. The advisor 
explained she had several years of experience and that V was authorised by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA).
The advisor said she could help Miss W to achieve her goal and explained all traders begin 
with a minimum investment of £200. Miss W could hear background noise which sounded 
like a call centre and the advisor gave detailed and thorough responses to all her questions. 
She explained Miss W would have to go through KYC and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) 
checks, so she submitted two forms of a photo ID and proof of address.
The advisor told Miss W to open a trading account with V and an account with Wise. She 
also told her to download Anydesk remote access software to her device. She told Miss W 
she would have to transfer funds to Wise from her other bank account and then purchase 
cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company before loading it onto an online 
wallet. Between 4 August 2022 and 18 August 2022, Miss W made three card payments and 
six transfers from her Wise account totalling £41,180.
Miss W could see her profits on the trading platform but when she tried to make a 
withdrawal, she received an email purporting to be from Wise explaining that if she wanted 
to liquidate her account, she would have to pay more money into her wallet. The broker 
explained that her money was being held by the FCA, so she agreed to make a further 
payment of £9,700.  She was then told there had been an issue with the payment, so she 
had to re-send the same amount the following day. 
Miss W realised shed been scammed on 18 August 2022 when she was locked out of her 
trading account. She complained to Wise and it deactivated the account but it refused to 
refund any of the money shed lost. It said it took appropriate action to prevent further 
payments once it was made aware of the recipient account possibly being used for scam 
purposes, but the payments werent flagged by its fraud systems, so it wasnt possible to 
detect the payments as potentially problematic.
It said the payments Miss W made on 18 August 2022 was rejected and returned, but card 
payments to investment accounts are generally considered complete once the funds are 
loaded to the account, so there were no chargeback rights. It also said the payments were 
3DS approved and by installing AnyDesk and allowing the broker to access her Wise 
account, she failed to keep her account safe. 
Miss W wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative who said Miss W wasnt satisfied with the £9,100 Wise had recovered. She 
argued that if it had intervened, shed have explained she was investing in cryptocurrency 
and the scam would have been detected sooner. 
Her representative has argued that Wise should have intervened when Miss W made the 
first payment on 9 August 2022 because it was to an international payee and resulted in a 
currency conversion fee, which should have been a red flag. They said the payment was out 
of character with the normal spending on the account due to its value and the fact the 
recipient was a new payee. They accepted there was a payment for £15,000 on 4 July 2022, 
but this was to a regular payee and between 9 April 2022 and 9 May 2022, the largest 
transaction on the account was £800.
The representative said that if Wise had intervened on 9 August 2022, Miss W hadnt been 
instructed to lie at this point, so the scam could have been avoided. They said it should have 
asked her why she was sending funds to another account in her own name and as she 
wouldnt have been prepared to think on the spot, shed have admitted the truth and so it 
could have detected the scam.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She explained there was no 
account history to compare the transactions with, and she didnt think the first seven 
payments were suspicious. But Miss W had paid £9,700 into the account on 15 August 
2022, which she transferred out to a new payee within minutes. She noted this was a 
significant amount and Wise shouldve given a written scam warning. But she didnt think this 
would have made a difference because Miss W had believed the investment was genuine. 
On 15 August 2022, a further £9,700 was credited into the account and transferred out within 
four minutes to a different payee. Our investigator noted the cumulative spend for the day 
was £19,400 within two hours, and the payment wasnt consistent with the reason given 
when the account was opened. So, she thought Wise shouldve intervened to query the 
nature of the payment and to provide a tailored warning. 
Our investigator noted that the broker had told Miss W to lie to her other bank, but she hadnt 
been told to give the same cover story to Wise and if shed told it shed come across the 
opportunity on social media, it would have recognised the investment was a scam. It could 
then have given an effective and tailored warning and prevented the scam.
Our investigator noted the other bank had warned Miss W about scams and that if shed 
done some research, she might have found the FCA warning about V dated in April 2021. 
Because of this, she thought the settlement should be reduced by 25% for contributory 
negligence.
Finally, our investigator explained that Wise had recovered £9,100 on 17 March 2023 but the 
funds werent returned until after Miss W complained to this service, so she recommended it 
should pay interest on the amount.Both parties have asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Wise has 
responded to say the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence and 
Miss W has said its not fair that Wise didnt tell her about the £9,100 that was returned to 
the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I decided to uphold Miss Ws complaint.
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Miss W says shes fallen victim to, in 
all but a limited number of circumstances. But the CRM code didnt apply in this case 
because Miss W received the cryptocurrency she paid for. And the payments to individuals 
were international payments.
Ive also thought about whether Wise could have done more to recover the card payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the 
scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Wise) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss W).
Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the disputed 
payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchange would have been able to 
evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Miss Ws payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Wises decision not to raise a 
chargeback request against the cryptocurrency exchange company was fair.
Im satisfied Miss W authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Miss W didnt intend her money to go 
to scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Wise is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Wise could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity, however Wise ought to fairly and 
reasonably be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss W when she tried to make 
the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Wise 
to intervene with a view to protecting Miss W from financial harm due to fraud. The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Wises systems. Ive considered the nature of the 
payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Miss W 
normally ran her account and I agree with our investigator that Wise ought to have 
intervened on 15 August 2022 when Miss W received £9,700 into the account and 
transferred the same amount out of the account nine minutes later. However, as this was a 
new account and there was no spending history to compare the payment with, it only needed 
to provide a written warning and I agree with our investigator that a written warning wouldnt 
have made a difference because Miss W was convinced the investment was genuine.
Less than two hours later, Miss W made another payment of £9,700, having transferred the 
same amount into the account four minutes earlier. At this point, because she had paid out 
£19,400 in under two hours having received the same amount into the account immediately 
before each payment, even though it wasnt obvious that she was buying cryptocurrency, I 
think Wise ought to have contacted Miss W either by phone or live-chat and asked her why 
she was making the payment. 
When Miss W was contacted by her other bank on 17 August 2022, she told it she was 
sending money to a friend who lived abroad, having been advised to lie by the scammer 
because the bank didnt allow payments to cryptocurrency exchanges. This raises concerns 
that Miss W might have provided the same cover story to Wise had it intervened. However, 
she has explained that she wasnt told to give the same cover story to Wise as she believed 
she was sending funds from her Wise account to her cryptocurrency account through person 
to person verification, which was needed to prove she held funds in her Wise account. 
Miss W has produced an email from Wise dated 16 August 2022 which she later learned 
was part of the scam, which supports that she believed she was sending funds from her 
Wise account for verification purposes and, based on this evidence and the explanation she 
has given about why she thought she was sending money from her Wise account, Im 
satisfied, on balance, that she would have answered truthfully if Wise had asked her about 
the purpose of the payment. 
With this in mind, I would expect Wise to have asked Miss W why she was making the 
payments, whether there was a third party involved and if so how she met the third party, 
whether shed been told to download remote access software, whether shed been promised 
unrealistic returns and whether shed been told to make an onwards payment from the 
cryptocurrency exchange. And as Ive accepted Miss W would have been honest in her 
responses, Im satisfied she would have told Wise that she was taking advice from someone 
who worked for company V, which shed learned about on social media. I think she would 
have also told the call handler that shed been advised to download AnyDesk and to transfer 
the cryptocurrency into a wallet provided to her by the scammer. 
With this information, Im satisfied there were enough red flags present for the call handler to 
have identified that the investment was a scam and I would expect her to have been given a 
tailored  warning including advice about clone companies. I would also expect the call 
handler to have discussed with Miss W the nature of the checks shed undertaken and to 
have provided advice on additional due diligence, including how to contact the details on the 
FCA website to check V was a genuine company.
When Miss W spoke to her other bank on 17 August 2022, she was told that being asked to 
lie would be an indication that the investment was probably a scam. I accept that she 
continued to make payments to the scam because she thought the cover story was 
necessary because the bank wouldnt allow payments to cryptocurrency. And Im satisfied 
that if Wise had brought to her attention the fact that there were red flags present which 
indicated that the investment was probably a scam, she would thought twice about what she was being asked to do and conducted further checks, which would have uncovered the fact 
that V was a clone of a genuine company.
Because of this, Im satisfied that Wise missed an opportunity to intervene and that this 
represented a missed opportunity to have prevented Miss Ws loss.
Contributory negligence
Our investigator recommended that the settlement should be reduced by 25% for 
contributory negligence.
Ive considered the circumstances leading up to the point when Miss W made the second 
payment on 15 August 2022, and I dont think it was unreasonable for her to have believed 
what she was told by the scammer.
She has described that her friend had shared a link on social media and she had assumed 
the link would have been vetted by the social media platform. She has also explained that 
she didnt see any negative reviews and she had heard what she thought sounded like a call 
centre in the background when she spoke to the scammer. She was also reassured by the 
fact shed been required to compete AML checks and provide photographic ID. And Ive 
seen evidence of the documents she received from the scam, so Im satisfied the scam was 
sophisticated. Miss W hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and this was an area with 
which she was unfamiliar, so she wouldnt have known to check with the FCA before going 
ahead with the investment. This unfamiliarity was compounded by the sophisticated nature 
of the scam and the fact she trusted the scammer and believed the trading platform was 
genuine. Because of this, I dont agree that the settlement in respect of this payment should 
be reduced for contributory negligence.
However, by the time Miss W made the final payments on 17 August 2022, she had been 
told by the scammer to lie to her other bank. And she went ahead with those payments 
having been warned that being told to lie would be an indication that the investment was a 
scam. Because of this, Im satisfied that the settlement in respect of the payment she made 
on 17 August 2022 should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
Recovery
Wise recovered £9,100 on 17 March 2023, but the funds werent returned to Miss W 
immediately. Because of this I agree with our investigator that it should pay interest on the 
amount from the date it recovered the funds to the date the date the funds were returned to 
Miss W.
Final decision
My final decision is that Wise Payments Limited should:
Refund the payments Miss W made from the second payment on 15 August 2022 
(less the £9,100 it recovered).
The part of the settlement which relates to the payment Miss W made on 17 August 
2022 should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
It should also pay 8% simple interest on the £9,100 recovered from the date it first 
recovered the funds until the date the money was returned to Miss W.*If Wise Payments Limited deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Miss W with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
My final decision
Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman