The complaint 
Mr Hs complaint is about charges he was asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS) at the end of a lease period for a car.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase
agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is
able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of his agreement held Mr H responsible for returning the car in a good
condition (fair wear and tear excepted).
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection
report completed at handover. Im persuaded that the damage to the wheels is
beyond what would be considered fair wear and tear.
Im persuaded the photographs were most likely taken at the point of handover as I
think thats the most likely time for them to have been taken and I can see that Mr H
referred to the damage being identified during the handover inspection.
The BVRLA industry guidance explains that a business doesnt have to complete the
repairs that they charge refurbishment for. They can instead choose to sell the car at
auction and take the risk the car may sell for a reduced value.
I dont think MBFS had to take account of the fact that the car was returned having
travelled less than the expected mileage. It was never a term of the contract that
reduced mileage would be refunded or could be used to mitigate any refurbishment
charges.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
DRN-1795335My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman