DRN-4277748
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner, who
Ill call BPF, refused him credit without a valid reason.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint recently. An extract from that provisional 
decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand, and dont doubt, that Mr A has an excellent credit score. Hes explained that he
has a previously unblemished repayment history on a credit account used to purchase a
similar phone and financed through BPF. In those circumstances, I can understand it would
have been embarrassing for him to be denied credit in store with others present, and that it
would have been frustrating for him not to have received more detailed information about
why his application was refused.
The Standards of Lending Practice set out by the Lending Standards Board says:
PS4. If the customers application is declined firms should, where possible, inform the
customer of the main reason for this..
BPF explained to Mr A that their main reason for rejecting his credit application
was that he didnt pass their internal credit scoring assessment. I would not expect them to
share details of how this score is generated as thats sensitive information that could be
used by consumers to manipulate their credit applications. So, I think BPF have done what
was required of them; theyve provided the main reason for the decline.
I would not think it fair for BPF to reject Mr As application because of his age and I can
understand why he has suspicions that was the case, as in the absence of a more detailed
explanation from BPF he would wonder why a previous application would be successful but
this one wasnt.
BPF have explained that their approval process is automated. Theyve explained some of
the criteria that would be considered and given me a plausible reason why Mr As application
was likely to have been declined. I know its frustrating for Mr A that I cant share that
information with him, but Im sure he would understand that is for security reasons  to
protect the integrity of the systems and procedures BPF use when making their decisions.
As the process is automated I think its likely the criteria used in that automated decision
would be regularly audited. Thats another reason why I think it very unlikely BPF would
decline Mr As application unreasonably, on age grounds as I think it likely any audit would
identify the unlawful use of a protected characteristic as a selection criteria.
It's for those reasons that, whilst I have every sympathy for Mr A, I dont think it would be fair
to suggest BPF have done anything wrong here.
My provisional decision
Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
BPF accepted my provisional decision without further comment. 
Mr A didnt agree with my provisional decision. I repeat his comments in full here so that 
BPF can see them. He said:
It surprises me that initially a judgement was found in my favour and now the ombudsman 
has decided that Barclays can without any explanation to me can refuse me credit,  
embarrass me in an Apple store full of people with people quite clearly hearing me speaking 
to Barclays operative and the store salesperson with my new phone in hand saying credit 
had been refused.
My previous phones had been purchased using this credit facility as well as with another 
company whom I believed used the same company, having not missed a payment and 
completed the term, I could see no justifiable reason to decline my application, especially 
with a credit rating as high as mine.
I appreciate that in the past that the banks have made bad judgements that resulted in the 
British Taxpayer bailing them out and so they naturally need to be vigilant in future regarding 
bad debt, but someone of my stature is not a bad debt and as it transpired had the means to 
pay cash there and then to purchase the phone. I am still working and at the time had 3 
streams of income, one from self-employment, one from working as an employee and a 
pension and so if someone can give me a justifiable reason for this application to be turned 
down then I would accept it, however, I have not been given a reason and so I do not agree 
with the ombudsmans provisional decision to find in the banks favour rather than mine.
Additionally, if this is how Barclays treats its customers and Shareholders, I will be 
transferring any accounts I have with them and selling my shares as they have dishonoured 
themselves in my eyes and will not be doing any further business with them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I understand Mr As frustration I dont think hes provided any additional information I 
wasnt already aware of. So, Ive not found reason to change my provisional decision and 
that now becomes my final decision on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman