DRN-3573328
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund transactions she didnt make. 
What happened
Miss T has explained she was contacted by someone claiming to be from Monzo  they said 
someone was trying to set up Direct Debits and Apple Pay on her account. She recalled they 
told her to set up Apple Pay on her own device  to stop someone else being able to do so. 
So when prompted, she entered her PIN on her Monzo App and received a text to confirm 
that her card had been set up for Apple Pay. 
Around the same time, two payments left Miss Ts account totalling £749. Miss T disputed 
these with Monzo. It declined her claim and subsequent complaint  it said she didn't take 
enough steps to keep her phone, card and PIN safe.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
Monzo accepted these are unauthorised transactions. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund them because it asserts 
Miss T failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep 
her personalised security details safe. 
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Miss T failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why. 
While the call came from No Caller ID, Miss T said they knew her name, postcode 
where her account was registered to (which was different to where she lived) and her 
card details. Given the multiple pieces of sensitive information, I can see why she 
believed they were genuinely from her bank  I think lots of people wouldve done. 
Im also mindful that most people dont hear from their banks genuine fraud team 
regularly to know and question how the number would appear on their phone. 
Miss T explained she was told that someone else was setting up Direct Debits as 
well as Apple Pay. Monzo submitted this shouldve raised suspicions, as the Direct 
Debits werent showing on her Monzo app. But its not clear the caller said theyd 
actually been set up or if someone was trying to. And either way, I can see how
 Miss T might not have known where to look for this information or whether theyd 
have appeared straightway. So I dont think the lack of corroboration in the app 
meant that Miss T was significantly careless, to say that she failed with gross 
negligence.  
Miss T recalled how she was then asked to set up Apple Pay on her phone  to do 
this, she needed to enter her PIN on her Monzo app following its prompt. Monzo said 
she didnt question this. But Miss T has consistently explained she was told that 
setting up Apple Pay on her device would block attempts to set it up on someone 
elses device. I can see how this seemed plausible  particularly in the moment when 
Miss T was concerned about the security of her account and when she trusted she 
was talking with her bank. 
In saying this, Ive noted how Miss T was asked to enter her PIN in the app  I can 
see how this wouldve provided some reassurance that she was dealing with her 
familiar app and that she wasnt being asked to divulge her PIN with the caller. Ive 
also not seen evidence to suggest that the process made it clear to Miss T what 
device she was adding Apple Pay to. It follows that I dont think Miss T seriously 
disregarded an obvious risk here. 
Ive also considered Monzos point that six minutes (which seems to be from when 
the call started to when Apple Pay was set up) wasnt long enough to build trust. I 
think thats a too simplistic approach. Gross negligence requires a consideration of all 
the circumstances. Here, Miss T was predominately persuaded because the caller 
had done the work beforehand  in finding out her sensitive information. And Miss Ts 
only actions here were the steps in her Monzo app. In this light, I dont think the 
length of the call looks alarming. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think Miss Ts actions fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. So I 
conclude that she isnt liable for the transactions and Monzo needs to put things right 
 by refunding her losses from these unauthorised transactions alongside interest to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Monzo ought to have refunded this much sooner and thats caused Miss T to worry 
and pursue this for a long time. So I also award £50 to reflect her non-financial 
losses. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ts complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss T the total of the unauthorised transactions (£749).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transactions to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Pay £50 for Miss Ts distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman