DRN-1922584
 
The complaint
Mr J complains, through a claims management company (CMC), that he was mis-sold 
investments by Barclays Bank UK because they were too risky for him.
What happened
In 2000 Mr J was advised to invest £7,000 into Barclays Managed Growth Fund ISA. In 
September 2002 he got further advice from Barclays and was advised to invest £25,000 into 
a With-Profits Bond.
He surrendered the ISA investment on 9 September 2004 and got back £5,489.  He 
surrendered the bond in 2005 and got back £27,787.
In response to his complaint Barclays didnt think the advice in 2000 to invest in the ISA was 
unsuitable. But it said that the advice in 2002 to invest in the bond was wrong as Mr J 
shouldnt have been advised to invest so much into the bond. It offered redress based on 
him investing £20,000 rather than £25,000 into the bond. It also offered £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by taking too long to respond to the complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought that Barclays had dealt with it 
fairly. She said that she thought Mr J understood what he was getting into and the risk 
involved with investing in the ISA in 2000 and she hadnt seen anything that suggested the 
investment had more risk than he was willing or able to take.
The investigator also didnt think that the investment into the bond in 2002 was too risky for 
Mr J. But she agreed with Barclays that investing around 80% of his available capital into the 
bond was too much. She thought that its offer of redress was fair in the circumstances.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. In short it said that the ISA was too risky for Mr J 
as a first-time investor. It said that when he invested in 2002, after there was a drop in value 
of the ISA, he had been warned by the adviser this could happen due to market conditions 
so wasnt turned against investing a second time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would point out to both parties that, where there is a dispute, my findings are made on a 
balance of probabilities - what more likely, than not, happened - not on what definitely did or 
didnt happen.
The 2000 advice
The core of the CMCs argument that the advice to invest in the ISA was unsuitable is that it 
was too risky because Mr J was a first-time investor. But whilst the experience of the client is 
something that the adviser should consider when advising on investments, it is not the only 
thing that needs to be considered. The fact someone is a first-time investor of itself does not 
automatically mean that they should only be advised to invest in low risk or no risk 
investments as the CMC seems to be arguing.
The fact find I have seen from March 2000 shows that Mr Js objective was capital growth. 
Given this objective I think Mr J needed to invest in a risk-based investment. 
The fact find shows that Mr J had no dependents, a reasonable net disposable income of 
£500 each month, a mortgage that was finishing soon, and £10,000 in deposit accounts 
(with a further £2,000 in a cash ISA).
The fact find shows that Mr J identified himself as having a medium risk appetite. There is 
limited evidence as to how Mr J arrived at this risk appetite. There is reference to a Guide to 
Investment Risk brochure in relation to a client identifying attitude to risk. I havent seen that 
brochure so I am not able to say what it might have said, but it is likely to have provided 
some description of the different risk categories.
But, although there is no way of knowing with any certainty what Mr J understood about the 
risk, I am not persuaded that he wasnt prepared to take a medium risk to achieve his 
objective of capital growth or that he didnt understand the risk.
I think the bond investment in 2002 shows that Mr J understood and accepted the risk of the 
ISA. This is because the bond was also a medium risk investment, and at the time of advice 
the ISA had dropped a reasonable amount in value  the fact find completed in September 
2002 records a value for the ISA of only £5,000 and Mr J will have received annual 
statements showing the drop in value.
If he hadnt understood the risk of the ISA, and wasnt prepared to take that sort of risk, I can 
see no reason he wouldve agreed to another medium risk investment in 2002 knowing the 
ISA had dropped in value by as much as it had. I think it is also of note that the CMC has 
actually used Mr Js understanding of the risk of the ISA as the reason why he was happy to 
invest in the bond in 2002.
In the circumstances, based on the evidence I have seen, I am not persuaded that that the 
ISA was too risky for Mr J or was otherwise unsuitable for him.
 
The 2002 advice 
I note that the CMC has provided no further argument or information in support of the 
complaint that the bond was unsuitable for Mr J in response to the investigators opinion. Its 
original complaint was that the bond was too risky for a first-time investor. But Mr J had 
previously invested in the ISA as I have set out above.
Having considered the available evidence, I think the bond was a suitable recommendation. 
By the time of the investment he had already been invested in the ISA for around two and a 
half years and had seen it drop in value. I have already found that Mr J was a medium risk 
investor in 2000 and I have seen nothing that persuades me he wasnt also prepared to take 
a medium risk in 2002.
I acknowledge his circumstances had changed. The 2002 fact find shows he was cohabiting 
and had a child. But he also had more available capital, a higher income and was making 
the final payment on his mortgage the month he saw the adviser. There is nothing in the fact 
find which would suggest the bond was unsuitable because it was too risky or for any other 
reason  save for the amount invested.Barclays have said that Mr J should only have been advised to invest £20,000. I can see no 
basis for disagreeing with it about that. I think investing that amount as against total 
investable assets of just over £37,000  which included the ISA - is reasonable and I think 
the redress it has offered based on that is reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020.
 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman