DRN-3062655
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
declined his critical illness claim.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr B applied for a 32-year fixed term life assurance and critical illness policy 
with Royal London. The policy provided life cover with a sum assured of £75,000, as well as 
life and critical illness cover with a sum assured of £25,000. The policy was taken out via an 
independent financial advisor (IFA) and cover started in May 2018.
Sadly, in early 2019 Mr B was diagnosed with cancer, so he submitted a critical illness claim. 
To help its assessment of the claim Royal London requested information from his consultant 
and GP. Based on the evidence gathered, Royal London said there were parts of Mr Bs 
medical history which it felt he ought to have told it about when he applied for the policy. 
In particular:
In 2016 hed been referred to a haematologist and dermatologist for investigation of 
night sweats and lesions on his arms. Mr B underwent a CT scan and blood tests 
and had a lesion surgically excised. He was diagnosed with rubber bleb naevus 
syndrome following this.
In 2014 Mr B was admitted for investigations in relation to headaches, which included 
a lumbar puncture, MRI, CT scan and MR venogram. The headaches were thought 
to have been caused by medication he was taking for acne.
In 2011 Mr B had a carcinoid polyp removed and had a history of polyps.
After reviewing things, Royal London decided Mr B had misrepresented his circumstances 
by failing to accurately answer questions about his medical history in the application form. 
In June 2019 it wrote to Mr B to confirm it had declined the claim. Royal London said that if 
Mr B had answered the questions accurately, it would have added a cancer exclusion to the 
critical illness cover and it wouldnt have offered total permanent disability benefit. Royal 
London said Mr B could continue his policy on the terms it would have offered, or it could 
avoid the policy (cancel from the start) and refund Mr Bs premiums. 
Royal London also said that even if there hadnt been a misrepresentation, it would still have 
declined Mr Bs claim as it didnt think his cancer met the policy definition. 
Mr B was unhappy with the claim decline, so he raised a complaint with Royal London. He 
said he was not a medical professional and didnt know what was important and what was 
not. He said he was led to believe that Royal London would request a medical report at the 
point of application to check his medical history.
Royal London didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr B brought the matter to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and issued their findings in March 2020. They didnt 
agree there were as many misrepresentations as Royal London suggested. In particular, 
they didnt think Mr B was told the polyp hed had removed in 2011 was a tumour or 
cancerous. But they did think Royal London could fairly say there was a qualifying 
misrepresentation in relation to other questions. They were also satisfied that when looking 
into these other medical issues, Royal London would have become aware of the carcinoid 
polyp. And based on this, they thought Royal London would never have offered Mr B critical 
illness cover for cancer or TPD. So, they were ultimately of the view that its decline of the 
claim and the amendment of the policy was fair.
Around the time the view was issued, Mr Bs health deteriorated, and he felt unable to 
continue dealing with the complaint. In 2021, Mr B returned to our service and confirmed he 
didnt agree with our investigators findings and would like an ombudsman to look at 
everything again and make a final decision. Mr B made a number of further points including 
the fact there is no medical link between the alleged misrepresentations and his 2019 cancer 
diagnosis.
Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
I asked Mr B whether he was ever told his polyps were carcinoid. In response Mr B said I 
was informed that they were concerned there may have been a carcinoid tumour... However, 
when I returned for a second scope I was informed that whatever they had been concerned 
about on the first had "disappeared" and I was informed there was nothing to be worried 
about. To my knowledge, all tests came back negative.
After reviewing the evidence, I felt it was likely Id reach the same outcome as the 
investigator but for different reasons. So, I shared my provisional findings with Mr B and 
Royal London so both had the opportunity to make any comments or provide further 
evidence. My provisional findings were:
I was sorry to read about Mr Bs ill health and the personal difficulties hes encountered over 
the past few years as hes come to terms with this. Id like to take this opportunity to wish 
him all the best moving forward. 
In my decision I wont address every point or comment made by either Mr B or 
Royal London. I mean no discourtesy by this, and Id like to reassure both parties that I have 
considered all the comments and evidence theyve provided to our service. But I will only 
address what I see to be relevant in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. 
When assessing Mr Bs complaint, Ive taken into account the relevant legislation here which 
is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive also 
considered the industry guidance that was in place at the time Royal London made its 
decision. This is called, Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products April 2013. I will refer to this as the code.
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If the 
consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions accurately, it sets out the 
remedies available to the insurer. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care, including if the questions asked at application were clear and specific. 
The code also says consideration should also be given as to whether the customer had the 
opportunity to check their answers and whether the warnings given were adequately 
prominent.The remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate/reckless or careless. Where a misrepresentation is 
careless, if the insurer would have charged a higher premium it can proportionately settle a 
valid claim. If it would have entered into the contract on different terms ie. it would have 
applied an exclusion, then it can proceed on the basis of the terms it would have offered. 
Before I consider the alleged misrepresentation, Id like to address some specific issues that 
have been raised by Mr B.
One of the points Mr B has highlighted is that he thought Royal London would access his 
medical records at the point of application  and had it done so this information would have 
come to light. I think it would be helpful to explain that insurers usually take the answers they 
receive in an application form on good faith because it would be impractical for an insurer to 
check all applications for issues or errors. This approach is accepted as reasonable industry 
practice. And there is an expectation that consumers will take reasonable care to answer all 
questions correctly. So, although insurers are given permission to access medical records, 
they often do not do so. For these reasons, whilst Mr B might feel as though Royal London 
ought to have requested a medical report for him, I dont think this is something that can be 
fairly expected of it - providing it has made clear the importance of answering questions 
accurately. 
And Im satisfied it did highlight the importance of answering questions accurately. 
The covering letter that was sent with a copy of Mr Bs answers repeatedly warned that it 
was important to check the answers were accurate and that if there was anything incorrect, 
missing or misleading, Royal London may not be able to pay out in the event of a claim. 
In addition, the welcome letters Mr B was sent around this time similarly stated that it is 
vitally important you check that the information we have is complete and accurate and 
warned that failure to do so could mean we wont pay a claim. I note Mr B signed and 
returned the form to confirm the answers were accurate.
Im aware Mr B has said he was led to believe his answers would be checked against his 
medical history. In the policy declaration, Royal London explained it may access Mr Bs 
medical records, but it did not suggest that it definitely would. Royal London also made it 
clear throughout the confirmation form that it was Mr Bs responsibility to ensure the answers 
submitted were correct. So, Im satisfied Royal London didnt provide misleading information 
about this. 
I note this policy was sold through an IFA and Mr B said it was the IFA who gave him this 
impression. But the IFA wasnt acting on behalf of Royal London, which means 
Royal London isnt responsible for the advice and information the IFA gave. If Mr B has 
concerns about the actions of the IFA, he would need to raise these separately because in 
this decision, Im only considering the actions and decisions of Royal London.
Id also note that in relation to intermediaries, the code states that if they were acting on 
behalf of the consumer (as opposed to the insurer), then the intermediary should be 
accountable for any misrepresentation resulting directly from their action or omission. 
Given the IFA was acting as Mr Bs agent and not Royal Londons, I think Royal London can 
fairly rely on the information given to it when deciding if Mr B has taken reasonable care.
 
Im aware Mr B has highlighted the alleged misrepresentations arent linked to the illness 
that hes claiming for. But Id like to stress this connection, or lack thereof, isnt a relevant 
consideration here. Whats important is whether a misrepresentation occurred and, if so, 
what Royal Londons underwriting decision would have been had the relevant information 
been given at the point of application. What matters here is how the information would have impacted the terms Royal London offered, not whether these medical issues are in any way 
linked to the medical issue thats given rise to Mr Bs later claim. 
Was there misrepresentation?
Royal London has identified eight questions that it thinks were answered incorrectly by Mr B. 
For the purposes of this decision, Ill focus on the question I think is key, which is:
Have you ever had, or do you currently have, any of the following? Any form of cancer, 
tumour, lymphoma, leukaemia or any growth or cyst of either the brain or spine? Including: 
Hodgkin's lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, Leukaemia, Melanoma
Mr B answered no. But Mr B had polyps removed in 2011 which post-removal testing 
showed to be a carcinoid tumour, which is cancerous. I think this question is specific and 
clear. So, Ive looked at whether, given Mr Bs medical history, he took reasonable care to 
answer this question correctly. 
Mr B originally told our service that the words cancer and/or tumour werent used in 
relation to his polyp and so he didnt know to answer this question yes. When asked about 
the word carcinoid Mr B has since said he was told about a suspected carcinoid tumour 
which then disappeared. Mr B said further testing took place and he was then told there was 
nothing to worry about. So, Mr B feels he took reasonable care when answering this 
question as he didnt know hed had cancer or a tumour.
Royal London disagreed and said Mr B ought to have known to answer this question yes so 
it said thered been a misrepresentation.
Where evidence is incomplete or conflicting, I have to decide what I think is more likely. 
And having carefully considered the evidence, in particular the medical records, I dont think 
its unreasonable that Royal London havent been persuaded by Mr Bs testimony here  Ill 
explain why.
As Mr B has said, there were further investigations and biopsies taken after the carcinoid 
polyp was removed, but no additional cancer or tumours were found at that time and no 
cancer specific treatment appears to have been given. The polyp was taken out  so it didnt 
disappear as Mr B has suggested. But its not immediately apparent from the treatment that 
Mr B had, that he ought to have known hed had cancer or a tumour. 
So, Ive looked at the medical records to see if there is any evidence of what Mr B was told 
and/or what his understanding of his medical history was. 
There is a consultation letter dated 28 January 2019 which does add weight to Mr Bs 
account. The letter summarises Mr Bs medical history and notes He has previously had 
investigations for multiple health issues including a suspectedcarcinoid which appeared to 
self-resolve This appears to have been a self-reported summary, but it does suggest that 
in 2019 Mr B was of the understanding the carcinoid tumour was suspected, wasnt 
confirmed and required no treatment. 
But this doesnt align with Mr Bs medical records as a whole which are quite clear that the 
diagnosis was confirmed and, importantly, that he was informed of the diagnosis. 
Of note in the records are letters which suggest Mr B was told about this diagnosis. 
For example, in a letter dated 23 September 2011 to Mr Bs GP, his surgeons nurse 
described his ten year medical history which led to the identification of two polyps 
These were both removed and histology showed that both werecarcinoid. It then described further investigations and treatment to be arranged. The letter ends by noting the 
consultant has had a discussion with Mr B this morning and has explained his diagnosis and 
purposed follow up. 
In another letter dated 7 June 2012 sent to Mr Bs GP, his surgeon said as you know he was 
found to have a carcinoid in one of his polyps the letter then went on to describe further 
investigations and findings, and the treatment to be arranged. The letter ends with I have 
discussed with[Mr B] and his family at length with regards to findings and they are fully 
aware of the plan.
Whilst I appreciate the word carcinoid isnt the word cancer or tumour, I think the medical 
professionals involved in Mr Bs care would have explained their findings using language the 
average person would understand. So in explaining Mr Bs diagnosis, I think they would 
have made sure Mr B understood he had a carcinoid and that this is a tumour/form of 
cancer. Id also note Mr B has recently told our service that the term carcinoid tumour was 
used  so hes not suggesting he answered no because he didnt understand a carcinoid 
was a form of tumour. Instead hes saying it wasnt declared because he was led to believe 
the suspicion was incorrect.
But on balance, I dont think the medical evidence supports this. Taking everything into 
account, I think Royal London can fairly conclude Mr B ought to have known to answer yes 
to this question. So I do think there was a misrepresentation here. 
Was this a qualifying misrepresentation?
In order for Royal London to take the action it has, it needs to show the misrepresentation 
was qualifying, which means it would have made a difference to the terms it would have 
offered. 
And having reviewed the underwriting in place at that time, Im satisfied that Royal London 
would have added a cancer exclusion to Mr Bs critical illness cover had he disclosed the 
carcinoid tumour. This means Im satisfied the misrepresentation was qualifying. 
Is Royal Londons remedy fair?
Royal London said that had a misrepresentation not been made, it would have added a 
cancer exclusion to Mr Bs critical illness cover and it wouldnt have offered total permanent 
disability benefit after obtaining further medical records. Having reviewed the underwriting 
evidence provided, Im satisfied this is what it ultimately would have done had it had the 
information it ought to have had.
So, Royal London declined the claim (as cancer wouldnt have been covered) and it asked 
Mr B if he wanted to continue the policy on the terms it would have offered, or if he wanted 
the policy avoided and the premiums refunded. This means it acted in line with the CIDRA 
remedy for a careless misrepresentation. And I think this is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I note Royal London has said Mr Bs illness didnt meet the threshold required to become 
payable under the relevant definition outlined in the policy, but I dont intend to consider this 
point any further here as Im satisfied its application of the cancer exclusion and the decline 
of the claim on this basis is fair. 
I realise my decision will disappoint Mr B and Im sorry to do so after everything hes been 
through. But for all of the reasons outlined above, Im satisfied Royal London has acted 
reasonably.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B, in response to my provisional findings, explained that the whole matter had caused so 
much pain and anxiety on top of his decline in health that he had nothing further to add. 
Mr B also asked if Royal London was still willing to cancel the policy and refund the 
premiums.
Royal London had nothing further to add but confirmed it would still be willing to cancel the 
policy and refund the premiums if this is what Mr B wants.
As outlined in my provisional findings, Im truly sorry to have caused Mr B and his family 
further disappointment. That being said, taking everything into account, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman