DRN-4217518
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Santander UK Plc defaulted her current account.
What happened
Miss H was over the agreed overdraft limit on her current account. Because of this, 
Santander withdrew Miss Hs overdraft facility, and Miss H came to an arrangement with 
Santander to make monthly payments to clear the overdrawn balance. Miss H missed one of 
the monthly payments on the arrangement, but she made two payments the following month 
to catch up. However, Miss H later found that Santander had defaulted her account because 
she missed the one payment. Miss H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Santander responded to Miss H and said that they didnt feel that theyd done anything 
wrong by defaulting her account. Miss H wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she 
referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel Santander had acted 
unfairly in how theyd managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Miss H 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In December 2021, Miss H exceeded the overdraft limit on her account. Santander 
attempted to contact Miss H about this, but without success, and they withdrew the agreed 
overdraft facility from Miss Hs account in February 2022. 
This meant that Miss H needed to come to an arrangement with Santander to repay the full 
amount that she was overdrawn. Miss H did come to an arrangement with Santander to do 
this, but she did so in May 2022, which was six months after shed first exceeded the 
previously agreed overdraft limit in December 2021. 
Ive listened to a recording of the phone call where Miss H comes to the overdraft payment 
arrangement with Santander, and Santanders agent clearly explains to Miss H that if she is 
going to be unable to make a payment on the arrangement that its important that she 
contacts Santander beforehand to discuss this with them. And Santander also sent a letter to 
Miss H in confirmation of the arrangement that also confirmed the importance of Miss H 
contacting them if she was unable to make the payments required by the arrangement.
Miss H didnt make the October 2022 payment, and she didnt contact Santander 
beforehand to discuss this with them. Santander wrote to Miss H in October 2022 about the 
missed payment asking her to contact them as a matter of urgency. But Miss H didnt 
respond to that letter. And Miss H also didnt respond to the default notice that Santander 
sent to her a few weeks later  because shed failed to adhere to the repayment terms of the 
arrangement. 
Miss H feels that it isnt fair that Santander defaulted her account after she missed just one 
payment on it. And she notes that she made a double payment the next month. But it must 
be remembered that Miss Hs account was very close to being defaulted before she came to 
the payment arrangement with Santander in May 2022  because shed exceeded her 
previously agreed overdraft in December 2021 and because her agreed overdraft facility had 
been withdrawn by Santander in February 2022.
As such, I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable for Santander to have effectively 
considered the payment arrangement they agreed with Miss H in May 2022 to be a last 
chance for Miss H to avoid the defaulting of her account. And I feel that the importance of 
Miss H staying in contact with Santander if she couldnt make a payment towards the 
arrangement was clearly and adequately confirmed to her by Santander.
Miss H has explained that she missed the payment because of a personal matter. I can 
sympathise with Miss H in this regard. But for the reasons explained above, I dont feel that 
the reason Miss H missed the payment should fairly influence the outcome here. This is 
because Miss H didnt contact Santander to discuss her circumstances with them when the 
payment was missed  which was Miss Hs opportunity to have explained to Santander what 
had happened and to have potentially come to an alternative arrangement with them. 
Miss H has also said that she didnt receive the letters Santander sent about the missed 
payment. But Im satisfied that Santander sent those letters to Miss Hs correct address. Of 
course, that doesnt mean that Miss H received those letters to her address. But this service 
wouldnt hold a business accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed letters, 
because the delivery of letters is undertaken by a postal service over which the business has 
no direct control. And, as discussed, Santander had explained to Miss H the importance of 
her contacting them if she couldnt make a payment when the arrangement was set up.
Finally, Miss H is unhappy that Santander have reported missed payments to her credit file 
in April and September 2022. This service can only consider points of complaint that have 
previously been referred to the business and which that business has had an opportunity to 
respond to. I cant see that Miss H has referred this aspect of her complaint to Nationwide 
previously so that theyve had an opportunity to respond to it. As such, if Miss H remains 
dissatisfied about this point, I can only refer her to Nationwide to raise this matter with them. 
All of which means that I dont feel that Santander have done anything wrong or acted 
unfairly here by following the process that the did  which ultimately led to the defaulting of 
Miss Hs account  when Miss H failed to make the payment required of her in October 2022 
and didnt contact Santander about it.
I realise this wont be the outcome Miss H was wanting, but if follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope Miss H 
will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman