DRN-4017879
The complaint
Mr L complains that RCI Financial Services Limited, trading as Renault Finance, took a 
direct debit payment on the wrong date, twice.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr L acquired a car under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance. 
Under the agreement he was to pay £352.12 a month for five years, by direct debit. At first, 
these payments were taken on the tenth day of each month, but on 7 October 2022 he 
called Renault Finance and asked for them to be taken on the first day instead. It was too 
late to adjust the date of the October payment, but the call handler told him the payment that 
was due on 10 November would be taken on 1 December instead.
Unfortunately, that didnt happen. The call handler had accidentally arranged for the new 
payment date to take effect from December, instead of November. So on 10 November a 
payment was unexpectedly debited from Mr Ls account. This left his account overdrawn, 
and he was unable to afford to buy lunch at work. This was serious as he has diabetes. He 
had to leave work early and go home to eat, and by the time he got home he was 
hypoglycaemic.
Renault Finance apologised for this, and sent him some sweets as a gift. However, as Mr L 
has diabetes, he described the sweets as a kick in the teeth.
When Renault Finance reversed the direct debit, it was re-debited on 15 November, without 
anyone warning Mr L that that would happen. Renault Finance accepts that it should have 
told him to cancel the original direct debit and set up a new one, to avoid that happening. 
The result was that his account was overdrawn again, and he had to borrow money from his 
grandmother, which he has described as humiliating.
Mr L complained. Renault Finance apologised, paid him £250, and promised to make sure 
that his credit file was not adversely affected. It later paid him another £102.12, making 
£352.12 in total  equal to one monthly rental payment. Mr L said this was still not enough, 
and he asked our service to increase it. But our investigator thought that the total amount 
paid was fair.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that not enough weight had been given to 
his hypoglycaemic episode. He said that since the same mistake had happened twice, it 
could still happen again, and so now he gets anxious every time he buys lunch. He was 
worried that by leaving work early to go home for lunch, he had created a bad impression 
with his employer. Having to borrow from his grandmother had been embarrassing. He 
asked for more compensation, so that it would be a deterrent to Renault Finance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that £352 is fair redress for everything that happened. I appreciate 
that Mr L feels strongly about this matter. But (as our investigator told him), awards made by 
our service are not made for the purpose of deterring businesses from repeating their 
mistakes, but solely to compensate the customer for what went wrong.
Mr L has referred to our website,1 which has examples of awards made in other cases, to 
support his contention that he should receive a larger sum. He argues that his case belongs 
in either the bracket for compensation from £750 to £1,500, or the bracket of up to £5,000, 
based on the impact Renault Finances mistakes had on him. However, I am satisfied that 
the right category is the £300 to £750 bracket, and that the amount Renault Finance has 
paid is enough to fairly resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that the payments made by RCI Financial Services Limited are sufficient to 
resolve this complaint, and I do not require it to do more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience