DRN-2866577
The complaint
Mr C complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with his loan account.
What happened
Mr C says he took out a HSBC loan in around March 2020 but at the time became unwell. 
He says HSBC agreed to freeze interest but didnt tell him that agreement had ended. Mr C 
says that affected his credit file and also complains about how HSBC dealt with his 
complaint. He says the credit file mistake meant he had nowhere to live and would like 
compensation for what took place. He would also like his credit file amended and says he 
made clear he didnt wish to enter into a repayment plan.
HSBC accepts it made mistakes and has apologised. It says its now removed all adverse 
information from Mr Cs credit file and paid £250 compensation. HSBC says it will pay a 
further £500 compensation for what took place.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought HSBCs overall compensation 
offer appropriate. The investigator thought it clear HSBC had made mistakes but had 
removed the adverse information from Mr Cs credit file and didnt think Mr C had applied for 
a tenancy at the time and so could only consider Mr Cs actual loss.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he thinks he should be awarded £4,000 
compensation but will accept £1,000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising and offering a fair and reasonable compensation amount.
There is no dispute here that HSBC made mistakes dealing with Mr C at what I accept was a 
difficult time for him. I accept he was caused significant distress and inconvenience. But Im 
satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised and has removed the adverse information from Mr 
Cs credit file.
The only issue for me to consider is the level of compensation. And having done so Im 
satisfied that HSBC has paid £250 compensation and offered a further £500 compensation 
which I find is a fair and reasonable total compensation amount. I appreciate Mr C says he 
was unable to apply for a tenancy at the time, but I have to consider what did take place and 
I cant fairly order compensation for something that didnt take place. In any event I have not 
seen any evidence of any loss Mr C suffered and think the total compensation offer reflects 
that he was caused distress and inconvenience and that he would have incurred some costs 
as a result of what took place.
I appreciate Mr C says he should be awarded £4,000 compensation but I cant see any 
justification for that, and make clear that our role is not to punish a business. I also make 
clear that such an award would be outside of the amount of compensation we would look to 
award for this type of mistake and impact.
Overall, Im satisfied HSBC has offered an appropriate compensation amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of a further £500. Mr Cs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman