DRN-4402435
The complaint
Mr K and Mr L are unhappy with what Aviva Insurance Limited did after Mr L made a claim 
on their legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr L had a dispute with a jeweller. In November 2022 he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. Aviva referred the claim to one of its panel solicitors for an 
assessment of whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
After obtaining additional information from Mr L, a paralegal at the panel firm advised in 
January 2023 the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Mr L queried next 
steps with Aviva which provided advice about this. 
Mr L made a complaint to the panel firm and the claim was reassessed by a solicitor. Her 
conclusion was also that it didnt have reasonable prospects of success. Subsequently Mr L 
received a settlement offer from his bank with whom hed also lodged a claim. Aviva 
suggested he direct any queries about this to the legal helpline provided by his policy. 
Our investigator thought Aviva acted correctly in referring Mr Ls claim for an assessment of 
its prospects of success. And he thought it was entitled to rely on the opinions that were then 
provided; the initial assessment was from a paralegal but they were appropriately supervised 
and the reassessment was carried out by a senior solicitor at the firm. He didnt think there 
had been significant delay in how the claim had been handled and overall Mr Ls emails had 
been responded to within a reasonable period. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he said:
His initial claim to Aviva had included his dispute with his bank (and whether they were 
right to treat this as a chargeback rather than a s75 claim). If the panel firm werent 
asked for their advice about this that was a failing Aviva was responsible for.
He thought it was clear the advice the panel firm provided was poor, incorrect and 
incomplete in relation to the claim against the jeweller (for example it got wrong the price 
of his ring) and so it wasnt reasonable of Aviva to rely on this. He didnt think the firm 
would have offered compensation in relation to the complaint he made unless it accepted 
their advice was wrong.  
The panel firm had said pre-action correspondence was proportionate to pursue so he 
questioned why Aviva hadnt agreed to fund this. 
He didnt think it was appropriate to refer him to the legal helpline for advice as the 
information he needed wasnt something the general helpline could provide. 
Hed told Aviva he was a neurodivergent client and didnt think it had complied with 
requests he made for reasonable adjustments. And there had been delays in responding 
to him (for example it took a claims handler 10 days to tell him what his role was). 
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Aviva has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Mr L has raised a significant number of points in correspondence with Aviva and our service 
about this claim. I dont think its practical or in line with the informal nature of our service to 
respond in detail to every one of those. Instead, Ive sought to focus on what appear to be 
Mr Ls key areas of concern based on the comments he made in response to our 
investigators view. 
Ive looked first at the initial claim submission Mr L made to Aviva. I can see he completed its 
claim form and in response to the question Who is your claim against he gave the name of 
the jeweller he was in dispute with. He did confirm in that form hed lodged a s75 claim with 
his bank but didnt indicate he wanted to make a claim in relation to this. And the supporting 
correspondence he included related to his dispute with the jeweller. In a follow up email he 
did include correspondence with his bank but didnt say he wanted this considered as a 
claim in its own right.
Mr L has disputed that a claim against his bank would be a separate claim and says rather 
than bringing a separate claim at court a single claim would be made against all potentially 
liable parties. But the question here is how matters should be treated for the purposes of the 
insurance claim he made. Given the claim hed made to Aviva related to the breach of 
contract claim he had with the jeweller I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva to conclude 
it was that dispute he wanted legal support with. 
And his policy does cover a dispute regarding an agreement for the sale, purchase, or hire 
of goods or services that are not for your business use. So his dispute with the jeweller is 
potentially something it could cover. But thats subject to the other terms and conditions of 
the policy. And the policy says it doesnt provide cover if the prospects of success are no 
longer in your favour. The definition of prospects of success includes that its more likely 
than not the insured will recover damages or obtain any other legal remedy which we have 
agreed to.
As an insurer isnt a legal expert we dont think its in a position to carry out the prospects
assessment and it should be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer who has relevant
experience. Where that has been done we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a
properly written and reasoned legal opinion when deciding whether a claim has prospects of
success or not. So I think it was right Aviva referred the claim Mr L made to one of its panel 
firms for an assessment of its prospects of success. 
I appreciate Mr L disagrees with the conclusions that firm reached and I note the comments 
hes made about this. But Ive read the opinion from the paralegal (who Im satisfied was 
appropriately supervised) and the senior solicitor. Having done so I think they are properly 
written and reasoned and I dont think there are obvious errors in the reasoning that would 
impact the conclusions reached. I think in particular it was reasonable of the solicitors to 
conclude Mr L would need to provide further evidence to show his rings werent of 
satisfactory quality. I dont think that would necessarily need to be in the form of an expert 
report but I think it would need to go beyond what Mr L had provided. And the reports include other reasons why his claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and in addition wasnt proportionate to pursue. Mr L has suggested the advice 
miscalculated the price he paid for the rings but I think the amount hes referenced is to the 
sum he could recover for an expert report; it isnt the cost of the rings. For Order 2 both 
reports say Mr L paid around £2,386.
I appreciate the panel firm appears to have concluded there were some failings in the 
service it provided that led it to offer compensation to Mr L. But I havent seen evidence that 
impacted the assessments it carried out or that Aviva was aware of any issue with these.  So 
I think it was reasonable of Aviva to rely on those assessments when declining to provide 
funding for Mr Ls claim. I can also see it gave Mr L correct advice on what hed need to do if 
he wanted to challenge those assessments. And, as Mr L is aware, if hes unhappy with the 
actions of the panel solicitors when acting in their legal capacity thats something he can 
raise as a complaint to that firm (which I understand hes already done). 
Mr L feels Aviva should have funded pre action correspondence based on a reporting form 
from the panel firm which said the claim would also not be proportionate to pursue beyond 
pre-action correspondence. However, that sentence needs to be read in the context of the 
broader advice being provided by the panel firm  which is the claim doesnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success. That means it doesnt meet the requirements set out in Mr 
Ls policy for funding to be provided at all. 
Mr L is also unhappy Aviva referred him to the legal helpline for advice as he doesnt feel it 
was in a position to provide the detailed guidance he required. I can see Aviva offered that 
advice in response to queries raised by Mr L as to whether his bank was right to have 
treated the claim he made to it as a chargeback issue rather than a s75 claim. The legal 
helpline is able to provide general legal advice so I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva 
to suggest they might be able to assist here. 
But I agree if the queries Mr L wanted answering went beyond general advice and he 
needed more detailed assistance the helpline wouldnt be able to assist him with that. 
However, thats something which would only have been available to him under his legal 
expenses insurance if the claim he was making met the terms and conditions of his policy. 
And for the reasons Ive explained I think Aviva was right to conclude the claim it considered 
(in relation to the jeweller) didnt and so it couldnt assist with this further. 
Ive also considered the overall handling of Mr Ls claim. In doing so Ive taken into account 
that hes a neurodivergent client. And I appreciate he doesnt feel Aviva made the 
reasonable adjustments he needed. In particular he says it didnt meet his needs in relation 
to communication with him being prompt. In considering this Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 
into account  given its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on 
whats fair and reasonable. If Mr L wants a decision that Aviva has breached the Equality 
Act, then hed need to go to court.
I think there are some instances where Aviva could have responded to Mr L more quickly. 
For example I agree with him it could have provided confirmation sooner of who the case 
handler dealing with his claim was. I also agree it could have provided a clearer response to 
the specific questions he asked in an email of 1 April 2023. So Ive thought about whether 
theres anything Aviva needs to do to put things right here. I recognise those issues are likely to have had a greater impact on Mr L as a neurodivergent 
person. But when looking at the handling of his claim in the round I dont think there were 
significant delays in moving matters forward. Any delays in responding to Mr L when set in 
that context are limited. And in general I think he did receive a reasonable response to the 
questions he asked. Im also mindful of the fact that dealing with any claim is of itself likely to 
cause some inconvenience to the individual involved. Taking everything into account I dont 
think any impact on Mr L as a result of what Aviva got wrong is something that warrants 
compensation. 
Finally, I can see in correspondence with Aviva Mr L raised issues about how it handled his 
complaint. As I can see our investigator has explained complaint handling isnt one of the 
activities our rules allow us to consider. So I cant look at in isolation. I could look at it when 
thinking about the overall customer service Aviva provided but I could only make an award 
for complaint handling if I was also doing so for something related to customer service more 
generally. That isnt the case here. So I wont be considering this issue further.
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 
28 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman