DRN-2218297
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with HSBC UK Bank Plcs handling of his debit card fraud claim and its 
refusal to refund him for a series of disputed transactions he says he didnt make. 
What happened
Mr P contacted HSBC in May 2019 to report a series of gambling transactions over the 
previous two days totalling about £800.These had been made from his mobile phone, which 
Mr P says was stolen and someone had accessed the gambling app on it. Mr P says his 
mobile phone wasnt password protected, which is how someone else was able to get into 
the device and make the transactions.
HSBC investigated Mr Ps claim but declined to refund him. It felt the disputed transactions 
had been authorised by Mr P. 
As Mr P remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ps complaint be upheld, as he thought that the 
disputed transactions had more likely than not been authorised by Mr P. Unhappy with the 
investigators view, Mr P requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P will be disappointed to hear that I also wont be upholding his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The relevant law and regulations provide that when transactions using a customers card 
details have been authorised by the customer, they will generally be responsible for them. 
And where theres a dispute about whether a customer has authorised the transactions, the 
bank is expected to provide evidence as to why its holding its customer liable.
As a result, I need to weigh up the information thats been provided to me by both parties 
and decide whether I think its fair and reasonable for HSBC to have held Mr P responsible 
for the disputed transactions. 
Having carefully reviewed all the information, Ive found that the transactions were more 
likely than not authorised by Mr P. 
For someone other than Mr P to have made the gambling payments, they wouldve needed 
access to his mobile phone (containing the gambling app in question) and his card details - 
as the number on the back of the card was required to make a deposit. In addition to this, in 
order to financially benefit from this activity, the third party would have needed to get access 
to the actual bank card and/or the online/mobile banking details as well, so they could 
transfer any winnings out to themselves.
Having listened to the call where Mr P first reports the disputed transactions  he says he 
still has his bank card in his possession. This is different to the version of events since 
provided by his representative, who says his wallet (containing his bank card) was also 
stolen with his phone, whilst he was attending a party. Weve also been told that there was a 
photo of Mr Ps card on the phone, as a relative had sent this to him when he was working 
away from home
Ive considered both of these explanations. But given Mr Ps call with HSBC was just after 
the disputed activity, and so is likely to provide the best record of events, its my finding that 
his bank card was more likely than not still in his possession at the time of the alleged theft. 
So, I consider it unlikely that an unknown thief would have carried out this activity, as unless 
they were to have known about, and checked through, all of Mr Ps photos to find a picture of 
the card, they wouldnt have had the necessary code to make the deposits. There would also 
have been no benefit to them in gambling on the phone if they couldnt collect any winnings.
Mr P thinks his ex-partner may have taken his phone and maliciously run up the transactions 
on his gambling account. And he says that they would have known all his online banking 
details and passwords too. But the gambling company has said the disputed transactions 
and the gameplay look very much like previous activity that Mr P has undertaken on the 
account. And no other money was taken from Mr Ps bank account at the time. So, if it was 
his ex-partner acting maliciously, its strange that they didnt try to access his bank account 
too.
Mr Ps bank statements show that shortly before the disputed transactions take place, a 
substantial loan credits his account. Before this credit, Mr Ps available balance was minimal 
and certainly not enough to fund around £800 worth of gambling transactions.
This would suggest that whoever was making the payments knew that there were now funds 
available to do so. And by the time the disputed transactions came to an end, there were still 
substantial funds in the account.  A third-party fraudster would ordinarily empty an account.  
So, this also doesnt bear the hallmarks of something a phone thief would have done. And 
the way that the transactions were run up in relatively small amounts at a time, and over an 
extended period, doesnt look like someone was trying to take advantage of the high balance 
in Mr Ps account by spending it very quickly. So, it doesnt lend to this being malicious 
activity either.
There was another transaction that Mr P disputed for about £30 at around the same time as 
the gambling transactions. I understand that HSBC refunded this. Mr Ps representative 
thinks it strange that the Bank have repaid that small amount and not the gambling 
transactions. But it looks like the amount refunded was for a subscription to a website that 
Mr P didnt recognise. And that transaction could have been put through at any time over the 
previous few days. So, I dont think its relevant to whether or not Mr P authorised these 
gambling transactions. And theres no evidence to suggest that it was made by the same 
person that Mr P alleges stole his phone. 
Mr Ps representative has said she thinks the payments were unusual for Mr P and that 
HSBC shouldve done more to flag them before they were processed. Whilst the individual 
values do differ slightly to previous activity, the number of payments is very similar to the 
genuine gambling transactions that Mr P has previously made. For example, there are days 
in the months leading up to the disputed activity where Mr P has made a substantial number 
of payments to the same gambling company, not too dissimilar to the number that are now 
being disputed by him.Mr Ps gambling history also indicates that he has previously spent larger sums of money 
overall (albeit over a different timeframe) to the same gambling company across a number of 
different bank cards. Hes also often ended up winning overall about as much as he spent. 
But on this occasion the person using the account does appear to have lost pretty much all 
of the money that was credited to it. So, on the face of it, it looks very much like this could be 
a case of regretted gambling losses.    
Taking all of the evidence together, I think the circumstances all support the likelihood that it 
was Mr P that authorised the payments. Of course, I cant be absolutely certain of that. But I 
need to reach a finding on the basis of whats more likely than not to have happened. And 
Im afraid that the evidence lends to it being Mr P that carried out this betting activity. 
Given the spending is also similar to his usual activity on the account, I also dont consider 
that HSBC should have intervened here either. There was no obvious pattern of fraud 
occurring on Mr Ps account. So, I dont think its reasonable to expect it to have flagged up 
on the banks fraud systems.
Im sorry that this wont be the answer that Mr P wanted, but I hope my explanation helps 
him understand why Ive reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. And I wont be asking HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
James Kennard
Ombudsman