DRN-3888316
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited didnt tell her that the excess for 
her motor insurance policy had increased. She wants this reduced to £145 as in the previous 
year and £350 compensation for the stress and anxiety caused.
What happened
Hastings sent Mrs M her policy renewal documents. It told her to check her details and the 
excess amounts as they may have increased. Mrs M called Hastings to discuss her quote 
and it provided a new quote and confirmed that she had the same cover as previously. But 
Mrs M then found that the excess had increased. She complained to Hastings which said 
she could only reduce the voluntary excess. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Hastings 
hadnt told Mrs M in the call that her excess had increased. But he thought it hadnt misled 
Mrs M as this was stated in the renewal documents. He thought Mrs M had opportunity to 
decide not to renew her policy. He thought Hastings had explained that Mrs M could reduce 
her voluntary excess. So he thought Hastings didnt need to do anything further. 
Mrs M replied that Hastings agent hadnt told her in the call that her policy excess had 
increased. Mrs M wanted her excess reduced for the same premium and compensation for 
her time and stress. Mrs M asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman, so 
its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ms policy excess increased from £145 to £195 in her new quote at renewal. I can see 
that this was due to an increase in the compulsory excess from £45 to £95. Hastings 
explained that underwriters increased the compulsory excess from time to time. I can also 
see that there was an increase in the excess for windscreen replacement, but Mrs M hasnt 
complained about that. The renewal invite asked Mrs M to:
Read and check your details
A lot can change in a year, so please check this cover still meets your needs. You have 
been with us a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a 
better price if you shop around.
Your quote is based on the details in the attached Statement of Insurance and Cover 
Summary, so if anything's changed, let us know. Make sure you check your excess amounts 
as they may have increased.
Mrs Ms premium had also increased, and she said she found cheaper cover elsewhere. So 
she called Hastings to discuss her quote. The agent she spoke to found a cheaper quote 
and, from the call Ive listened to, confirmed that Mrs Ms cover remained the same. And the 
agent also told Mrs M to read her new policy documents including the excesses. 
I agree that the agent didnt tell Mrs M in the call that the policy excess had increased from 
the previous year. But Im satisfied that this was already set out in the renewal invite and it 
was also set out in the new quote sent to Mrs M. And Im satisfied that Mrs M was 
reasonably directed to her check her documents, including the policy excesses. 
Mrs M called Hastings the day after she received the new documents to complain. And so 
Im satisfied that she was aware of the increase in the excess amounts before the policy 
renewed more than two weeks later. And I think this gave Mrs M reasonable opportunity to 
decide to not agree with the increased excess and not take the policy renewal which she 
could have cancelled at no charge. 
So Im satisfied that Hastings did enough to make Mrs M aware of the excess increase in the 
documents sent to her. I cant say that the agent intentionally misled Mrs M in the phone call. 
I think the agent answered Mrs Ms questions fairly and told her that her cover remained the 
same as in her renewal invite. I think that Hastings not telling Mrs M about the excess 
increase in the call didnt cause her any loss as she had sufficient information to make an 
informed choice about her renewal.  
Hastings also told Mrs M that she should call it to discuss reducing her voluntary excess if 
she so wished. But Mrs M renewed her policy. So I think Hastings has treated Mrs M fairly 
and reasonably and that it doesnt need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman