DRN-3820826
The complaint
Miss D complains that 1.618 Advisory Services UK Limited (1.618) mis-sold her a life and 
serious illness assurance policy by failing to accurately record her health in the application. 
Because of this, Miss D considers 1.618 responsible for the policy being avoided and her 
serious illness claim being declined by the insurer due to misrepresentation. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In August 2019 1.618 sold Miss D a life and serious illness assurance policy. It provided 
£68,000 of cover for monthly premiums of about £113. Upon this being set up, Miss D 
cancelled an existing policy (policy 2) that she set up in 2003 and provided life cover only  
which had a sum assured of £180,000 and a 25-year term. 
 
Miss D sadly suffered a stroke in July 2020 and so contacted the insurer to make a claim 
under her policy. The insurer declined the claim as they considered Miss D misrepresented 
her health when she applied. So, they avoided the policy and return the premiums Miss D 
had paid.
Miss D complained to 1.618 about the sale of the policy as she said, having told them about 
her health history, they failed to accurately include it in the application. And that, even 
though she contacted 1.618 about being unable to access the insurers member zone online, 
she received no response. This meant she was unable to check or update the information 
submitted in the application. Miss D considered 1.618 responsible for her claim being 
declined by the insurer and so, she wanted them to pay her the £68,000.
1.618 considered there had been no errors on their part and that the misrepresentations 
within the application were due to Miss D not disclosing all material information. They said 
their advisers are required to follow a predefined process where the client is requested to 
answer various questions in respect of their health  with each answer recorded by the 
adviser as specifically provided by the client. And it is absurd to contend that their adviser 
failed to record health issues  as, had they been disclosed, the adviser wouldve recorded 
them as they did with the raised blood pressure (which was brought to the advisers 
attention).
1.618 further explained that, had Miss D disclosed all material health issues in the 
application, the insurer wouldnt have offered cover. And so, its possible Miss D was aware 
cover wouldnt have been offered and so chose to intentionally withhold such information to 
obtain cover. They considered Miss D to be a very hands-on client with many interactions on 
her policy, and acutely aware of what was covered  having reviewed the policy documents 
which were available to her on the insurers website, along with a hard copy sent in the post. 
So, there was no doubt Miss D was aware she needed to disclose all health conditions and 
the importance of this was stressed by both them and the insurer. 
The complaint was considered by one of our Investigators. She thought 1.618 was 
responsible for Miss Ds health not being accurately presented to the insurer in the 
application, and so mis-sold the policy. When considering how to put things right however, 
she noted the insurer wouldnt have offered cover had they been aware of Miss Ds true 
health. And that the insurer for policy 2 likewise confirmed they wouldnt have offered cover 
for Miss D at that time, had a new application been made. Because of this, our Investigator 
thought it most likely Miss D wouldnt been able to obtain serious illness cover in 
August 2019. She therefore thought Miss D wouldve likely retained policy 2, which only 
provided life cover.
Our investigator therefore didnt think it would be reasonable for 1.618 to pay the £68,000 
as, based on her health in August 2019, Miss D likely wouldnt have been able to obtain 
serious illness cover with any insurer. But considering Miss D had lost the benefit of retaining 
policy 2, she put forward three options (with the first being the preferred):
1.618 search the market to find a life assurance policy offering the same level of 
cover as policy 2  that being £180,000 of cover up to May 2028. 
1.618 indemnify the £180,000 sum assured up to May 2028. So, if Miss D dies during 
this period then 1.1618 would pay this sum to her estate/beneficiary(s). 
Both parties agree to a significant payment now but less than the sum assured 
(perhaps 50%). 
1.618 disagreed as they considered the three proposals admitted liability or fault on their 
part, which they denied. They remained of the view that there was a clear material non-
disclosure of all relevant facts by Miss D at policy inception. And they said had it not been for 
this non-disclosure, policy 2 would remain in force.
Miss D also disagreed. She explained that she didnt need or want life cover as she didnt 
have children and so wouldnt be leaving money to any beneficiary(s). Instead, she needs to 
have benefit of the money while she is still alive  which is what the insurance was meant to 
provide. Miss D further added, had 1.618 done things correctly, she wouldve been paid in 
2020 and that she doesnt have until May 2028 to live. So, she thought the £180,000 
payment should be made now or, alternatively, the £68,000 plus medical expenses and trials 
she had to pay (and so she would be happy with £120,000).
Our investigator considered the complaint further and, while she remained of the view the 
complaint should be upheld, she felt to put things right 1.618 should pay Miss D £1,500.  
This was because shed previously put forward the three options under the assumption 
Miss D wouldve retained policy 2 (had she known in August 2019 she wasnt able to obtain 
serious illness cover). However, considering Miss Ds comments about not requiring life 
cover, she thought it was more likely she wouldve cancelled policy 2 regardless of whether 
she was able to obtain serious illness cover or not  as this simply wasnt the cover she 
wanted. Because of this, Miss D has suffered a loss of expectation as she thought she had 
the benefit of serious illness cover in place when she didnt. So, our investigator thought 
appropriate redress would be an award for the distress caused by the loss of expectation. 
And she considered £1,500 a fair amount to recognise that Miss D expected to receive a 
significant sum of money, only to discover she wasnt entitled to it. 
Miss D disagreed and, in summary, she added:
She didnt think £1,500 was fair compensation as, at the very least, she thought 
1.618 should pay £68,000 plus additional compensation. She was assured she was covered under the policy by 1.618 and all premiums were 
paid. She couldnt access the insurers online member zone and raised this on 
several occasions. And when she had the stroke, she called 1.618 and was told she 
was covered. 
The outcome reached by the Investigator is biased and her last email suggested it 
should be upheld, with suggestions of £180,000 being paid to beneficiaries when she 
died. She questions why it would change from £180,000 to £1,500. 
The outcome changed without good reason  it is unjust, unfair and not impartial.
There should also be compensation for the time this has taken as well as the 
suffering she is going through  including stress and lack of sleep.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. At which point, Id like to note that Im not 
considering the insurers decision to avoid Miss Ds policy and decline her claim as part of 
this decision. Im only considering the actions of 1.618 in setting up the policy, whether 
theyre responsible for the misrepresentation and  if so  how to fairly put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of Miss Ds ill health and the impact this has had on her. I also appreciate 
that not receiving the £68,000 has affected Miss D significantly at a very difficult time. And 
so, I want to reassure Miss D that Ive taken everything shes said into consideration when 
reaching my decision. I know this will come as a disappointment to Miss D but, for similar 
reasons as our Investigator, Ive come to the same outcome. 
It isnt in dispute that the application submitted to the insurer didnt accurately reflect 
Miss Ds health history at the time. Both parties however consider each other responsible for 
the non-disclosures that led to the insurers decision to avoid the policy and decline the claim 
due to misrepresentation. As I wasnt present when the application was completed, I cant be 
sure whether 1.618 asked Miss D the relevant questions, or if Miss D failed to answer them 
accurately and honestly. Ive therefore thought about what I think is most likely to have 
happened here. Having done so, I think its more likely that 1.618 is responsible for Miss Ds 
health not being accurately recorded in the application. This is because:
Miss Ds raised blood pressure was recorded in the application. It didnt however 
include that Miss D was taking medication, or that she was awaiting further 
investigations for the condition. I consider it unlikely Miss D wouldve disclosed a 
condition, but only in part, if she was deliberately trying to mislead the insurer.
Miss Ds weight, amongst other application questions, also wasnt recorded correctly 
in the application  it shouldve been 54kg, not 62kg. This is a significant difference 
and I think its unlikely Miss D wouldve overestimated her weight. And based on 
NHS guidelines this wouldve been considered a healthy weight for a person of Miss 
Ds height. So, I likewise see no reason for Miss D to have not disclosed her weight 
accurately or that she could reasonably have been that inaccurate. 
The fact find completed by 1.618 recorded that Miss D didnt have any existing 
policies in place at the time. I can see no reason or benefit for Miss D not to tell 1.618 
about policy 2 - particularly given she was replacing it with the cover being applied for. This, in my view, supports the likelihood of errors made by 1.618 in the 
application process.
Ive seen various emails Miss D sent 1.618 shortly after the policy was set up in 
which she explained, after successfully logging into the insurers member zone on 
one occasion to start checking the policy documentation, she was now unable to. 
And that 1.618 hadnt responded to her about the problem even though shed raised 
it several times. From this, Im satisfied Miss D was unable to check the policy 
documentation, including the answers to the application questions.
Miss D has also provided emails, sent shortly after the policy was set up, in which 
she raised concerns about the premium cost but also uncertainty about what cover 
was provided. I consider this lack of understanding on Miss Ds part suggests the 
conversation between her and the adviser  at the point of application  wasnt as 
thorough as it ought to have been. This therefore supports Miss Ds testimony  
which Ive found consistent throughout the complaint process  that the adviser didnt 
ask her the specific application questions. 
I therefore consider the misrepresentation of Miss Ds health in the policy application was 
most likely caused by 1.618. It follows that I think the policy was mis-sold. 
Ive given careful thought about what compensation is fair to put things right, and Ive looked 
at what wouldve happened had the policy not been mis-sold. In Miss Ds case, two major 
insurers have confirmed  based on her health in August 2019  they wouldnt have been 
able to offer life or serious illness cover. So, even if it had not been for 1.618s error, I think 
its unlikely Miss D wouldve been able to obtain the serious illness cover she wanted. 
Miss D therefore wouldnt have been able to claim for the stroke she suffered. Because of 
this, I cant fairly conclude that Miss D has suffered the £68,000 loss. So, I dont think I can 
reasonably direct 1.618 to pay this.
Miss D did however cancel policy 2 upon being accepted for the life and serious illness 
policy. Our Investigator initially put forward three remedies under the assumption Miss D 
wouldve retained policy 2, had Miss D known she couldnt obtain the serious illness cover 
she wanted. Miss D has however since confirmed that she has no need for life cover as she 
wont be leaving money to any beneficiary. Considering this, I think its reasonable to 
assume that  had correct advice been given by 1.618  Miss D wouldve cancelled policy 2 
in August 2019 as she had no need for this type of cover. 
I appreciate Miss D believed she had serious illness cover in place and was financially 
protected when she had the stroke. But, as Ive explained, I dont think Miss D couldve 
obtained this cover had her health been accurately disclosed to insurers. And it seems most 
likely she wouldve cancelled policy 2 had her protection requirements been reviewed 
properly. It follows that Miss D wouldve been in the position she now sadly finds herself in 
even if it hadnt been for the policy being mis-sold. That said, I do think Miss D has suffered 
a loss of expectation by finding out she wasnt covered for the stroke she suffered and so not 
entitled to the £68,000. 
In addition to this, I think there were service failings by 1.618 following the policy being set 
up as it seems they didnt respond to Miss Ds emails  about the policy cost/benefits and 
being unable to access the insurers online member zone  appropriately. Taking everything 
into consideration, I think £1,500 is a reasonable amount to recognise the service issues and 
the loss of expectation Miss D experienced.Im sympathetic to Miss Ds circumstances and I realise £1,500 is significantly less than the 
£68,000 sum assured she was expecting. But, for the above reasons, I think it is fair in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct 1.618 Advisory Services UK 
Limited to pay Miss D £1,500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman