DRN-1967368
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain through their representative, a claims management company (CMC), 
that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H received investment advice from Halifax in 1997, 1998 and 2006. The CMC 
complained to Halifax on their behalf in 2019 about the 2006 advice as they thought Mr and 
Mrs H shouldnt have been advised to invest any of their funds given their circumstances at 
the time.
 
Halifax partially upheld the complaint. They reviewed the advice theyd given to Mr and Mrs 
H. They thought the two earlier sales were unsuitable as Mr and Mrs H had been advised to 
take too much risk. They awarded redress accordingly.
Halifax also thought the 2006 advice was unsuitable. However they thought that it would 
have been suitable if Mr and Mrs H had been advised to invest a lower amount - £100,000 
instead of £200,000. The CMC didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service where 
it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator thought the outcome that 
Halifax had come to was fair and they didnt need to do anything else to resolve the 
complaint. 
The CMC didnt agree and said, in summary:
Mr and Mrs H didnt actively seek advice, they were told to see an adviser 
The wording used in the financial report is generic and many of their clients, including 
Mr and Mrs H, make it clear that they didnt go to the bank seeking greater returns 
from their savings but simply agreed with the advisers suggestions that a higher 
return would be better
The suggestion within the 2006 financial report that Mr and Mrs H had a goal of 
growing income with the prospect of capital growth was proposed by the adviser 
and while accepted by Mr and Mrs H, wasnt something they had specifically sought
The consequences and risk of this potential growth were not something that was 
appropriate for Mr and Mrs H
While there wasnt much difference between the rate of return from savings accounts 
was the rate of inflation at the time, it wasnt justification for taking such a high level 
of risk
There was a wealth of difference between the potential risk of making a small return 
versus the risk of a significant loss of their capital - albeit with the chance of a greater 
return.
Halifaxs offer went some way to satisfy the fact Mr and Mrs H were advised to invest 
too much, but it didnt cover that the level of risk was inappropriate for their 
circumstances. 
The investigator wasnt minded to change her opinion. As theres been no agreement, the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Halifax to do any more and I will now explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H have accepted the offer of redress for the 1997 and 1998 sales so I will focus 
on the 2006 sale. Halifax have accepted that the advice was unsuitable so I need to consider 
if the offer they have made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs H were 57 and 56 and had taken early retirement 
because of health issues. They had no dependents and owned their own house with no 
mortgage. Earlier that year theyd sold a plot of land for around £200,000 so they had around 
£310,000 on deposit. They also had £14,000 invested in ISAs. 
They had no income at the time but were due to start receiving around £400 per month from 
rental income and potentially another £200 from financial support that may have been due to 
them. Their outgoings were around £800 - £1000 per month so they were looking to 
generate income of around £400 - £600 from their capital. 
The adviser assessed their attitude to risk as cautious/medium and made a recommendation 
to invest £150,000 in a Collective Investment Plan (CIP) and £50,000 in a Personal 
Investment Plan (PIP). The investments were set up to provide a quarterly income to Mr and 
Mrs H. 
The CIP investment was to be made in the Corporate Bond Fund which was described as a 
below-average risk fund that invested primarily in investment grade interest bearing 
securities, including gilts and corporate bonds. 
The PIP investment was to be made in the Managed Income Fund which was described as a 
fund that invested in stocks and shares, property and corporate bonds in the UK and 
overseas. The adviser noted that some of the assets within the fund had a higher risk rating 
than Mr and Mrs Hs agreed attitude to risk. But he believed the mix of assets resulted in an 
overall classification of cautious/medium.
Despite what the CMC has said, I think its plausible that Mr and Mrs H were seeking advice 
on ways in which to try and make their capital provide a better return. So Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for Halifax to recommend that Mr and Mrs H invest, rather than save, some of 
their money. 
But I agree that the advice was unsuitable, given their circumstances. They had a shortfall in 
income each month, so while they may have wanted to use their available capital to increase 
their income, I dont think that they should have been advised to expose such a large 
proportion of their capital to risk.
Given that they would struggle to make up any losses, it seems that they invested more of 
their capital than was reasonable. A recommendation to invest half the amount they did 
would have left them with around £200,000 on deposit, £75,000 in the CIP, £25,000 in the 
PIP and £14,000 in their ISAs. I would consider this asset mix to be broadly suitable for their 
circumstances.Around that time Halifax were paying a rate of approximately 4% on amounts over £100,000 
on one of their savings accounts (taken from Moneyfacts March 2006). So the £200,000 on 
deposit could have provided a monthly income which would have been enough to meet their 
needs and put them in a position where they could take a small amount of risk on their 
remaining capital. Their incomes would increase in the future when they started to receive 
their state pensions and it must be taken into account that they were experienced investors. 
So, having considered everything, I think it was suitable for Mr and Mrs H to take a small 
amount of risk with some of their capital. It follows that I think the redress offered by Halifax 
is fair and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint. It is now for Mr and Mrs H to 
accept Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifaxs offer if they wish to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman