DRN-3394348
The complaint
In short, Mr and Mrs S complain that Link Market Services Trustees Limited failed to carry 
out their instructions.   
What happened
On 5 January 2021, Link informed Mr and Mrs S of a TUI rights issue and let them know 
their options. Mr S responded and submitted an instruction for Mrs Ss sole shares via the 
online portal, which duly confirmed that the instructions had been accepted. 
He then submitted, or tried to submit, instructions in respect of his and Mrs Ss joint holdings 
but could only fill out the form in one name and national insurance number, so he put down 
his name. He believed that these instructions were valid and had been accepted. 
 
In due course, Mrs S received her cheque in the post, but nothing was received for their joint 
shares. Mr S contacted Link and was told to wait as the cheque could be delayed. It still 
didnt arrive so he contacted Link again and was told a new cheque would be raised. 
Mr S contacted Link several times to find out what happened to the cheque. He was also 
promised a call back on one occasion, but this didnt happen. 
Mr and Mrs S subsequently complained but were told that theyd submitted the incorrect 
instructions, so their instructions werent valid. In summary, Link said instructions had to be 
submitted for each shareholder and this wasnt done. However, it offered Mr and Mrs S £50 
compensation for the service provided. It said it shouldve referred them to its shareholding 
team when they first called but didnt.
 
Having initially refused consent, Link consented to us considering the merits of this 
complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II (MiFID II), businesses are 
required to confirm the nationality and national client identifier (NCI) of all their 
customers when reporting deals. This means that this information is required for both 
shareholders if there is a joint holding.
Mr S says that it wasnt clear they needed to submit individual instructions for their 
joint holding, and when he completed their submission there was nothing indicating 
hed done it incorrectly. 
Link provided a copy of the submission page completed with the investor details for 
the rights issues. Although it didnt specify that each person had to submit details 
separately, the submission page had a box for them to fill out their NCI numbers.  
Link also provided an NCI help sheet on its website which explained For most UK 
customers, the NCI is your national insurance number. It also said, all registered 
shareholders will need to provide this. So, Link provided Mr and Mrs S with enough 
information about what was needed and necessary as part of their instructions.  
The terms and conditions also state: We may decline to accept an instruction to sell 
Nil Paid Rights, or, having received your instructions, we reserve the right to refuse to 
act upon them. Link acted in line with its terms and conditions in refusing to act upon 
the instructions provided, because they werent correct. 
Since January 2021, Link has made things clearer going forward. The submission 
page now specifies that each holder must submit an instruction separately. So, 
even without the NCI help sheet or the terms and conditions, its clear that 
instructions are needed for each person.   
Although Link has made the position clearer, this doesnt mean it had previously 
failed to provide the relevant information on what was needed from Mr and Mrs S.  
After submitting their instructions, Mr S first called Link on 2 February 2021 to ask 
where their cheque was. He made seven further calls between 3 February 2021 and 
30 March 2021, to find out what was going on. 
Whilst Link ought to have told him that their instructions hadnt been submitted 
correctly, and explained what this meant, it wouldnt have changed the outcome even 
if it had.
Mr and Mrs Ss rights lapsed because valid instructions hadnt been submitted by 
them.   
The £50 compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Overall, Link provided enough information on how to submit their instructions 
correctly, including informing them that this needed to be done per person. However, 
it offered compensation because the correct information wasnt given when they 
called Link. 
Mr S rejected the investigators view. In summary, he said:
Link told him that the shares were sold en block so hes been robbed of the 
proceeds  its website was set out to do exactly that. 
Funny how Link said it couldnt sell his shares without his permission, but it could rob 
him, without his permission. 
The ombudsman service has too close a relationship with the business.  
Instead of telling him his instructions had been accepted, it shouldve told him that it 
couldnt be accepted. 
He knew from the outset that the decision would go against him. 
The business is stealing millions from investors and our service is facilitating this theft 
rather than being impartial. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
decision. In short, she said:
Despite what Mr S says, she cant agree that the business stole from him, or that it 
hadnt provided him and Mrs S with the relevant information on how to submit 
instructions. 
Whilst Link has improved on how it shares this information, since the rights issue, it 
still doesnt mean it has done anything wrong.  
She cant consider the corporate actions or rights issues as different businesses deal 
with them differently.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs S say, Im unable to 
safely say that the business behaved unreasonably by not processing an incorrect 
application.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr and Mrs Ss strength of feeling about this matter. Mr S has provided 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr and Mrs S, and Link, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
I appreciate what Mr S says about not being told that the form was incorrect, but that isnt 
the same as being told that it was correct. In the circumstances I dont think it was 
reasonable for Mr S to assume  in the absence of unequivocal confirmation  that the 
instructions, containing only his details in respect of joint holdings, was correct. Im satisfied 
the responsibility to submit the correct instructions lay with Mr S (and Mrs S).   
Regardless of whether or not there was space on the one form  for two sets of customer 
information  the point is that Mr S didnt provide the necessary information. In other words, 
Mr S didnt provide separate details for himself and Mrs S, to enable Link to act on their 
behalf in respect of their joint holdings.  
Regardless of what Mr S says Link ought to have done, in the circumstances Im satisfied 
that it simply couldnt act without the necessary information that it was obliged to obtain from 
its individual customers. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im satisfied that the instructions in respect of the 
holdings were incomplete, such that the business wasnt authorised to act upon Mr Ss 
instructions in respect of his and Mrs Ss joint holdings.  In other words, it wasnt obliged to 
act on the basis of instructions from Mr S only, without the necessary information from Mrs S 
too.  
I note Mr S says that it wasnt clear that he and Mrs S needed to submit individual 
instructions for their joint holding. But he also says that there wasnt space to enter both his 
and Mrs Ss details, so he completed the form in his name only, presumably in the hope that 
it would be sufficient. I note he did so of his own volition and without any advice from the 
business. So, in the circumstances, it could be argued that he ought reasonably to have 
known that submitting online instructions with only his details (and not Mrs Ss) for a joint 
holding wouldnt have allowed Link to act. 
In the circumstances, I think it wouldve been reasonable for Mr S to make enquiries with 
Link  specifically regarding what he should do about not being able to provide Mrs Ss 
details  rather than just checking if his instructions had been received and/or what was 
happening about their cheque.   I note there were PDF links on the application (referred to by the investigator above) 
detailing the terms and conditions as well as NCI help sheet, which wouldve made 
reasonably clear what needed to be done. 
Notwithstanding Mr Ss error, I note that Link independently has the right to refuse to carry 
out instructions. In this instance, I understand that its a right that it couldve exercised in any 
case. Despite in January 2021 Link expressly stating that each holder must submit separate 
instructions, on balance I think this was already reasonably clear, or ought reasonably to 
have been clear, when Mr S submitted the online instructions. 
I note that Mr and Mrs Ss instructions lapsed because they submitted invalid instructions. 
This isnt something that I can blame Link for. Despite what Mr S says, this isnt the same as 
Link stealing his money, even if stocks were sold en block. Based on Mr Ss (incorrect) 
instructions, he and Mrs S werent entitled to the proceeds. On balance, I think its more 
likely than not that things wouldnt have been different even if Link had sent them to the 
correct department sooner. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, I cant blame Link for Mr and Mrs N not being able to 
exercise their right. However, I think the £50 compensation for the business failing to point 
out the error sooner and manage their expectation is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion 
as the investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman