DRN-4469957
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as NFU Mutuals (NFUM) refusal of their claim under the legal expense section of 
their home insurance policy.
NFUM are the underwriters of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents it uses to deal with claims on its behalf. As NFUM has accepted it is  
accountable for the actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to NFUM includes the 
actions of the agents. 
What happened
A firm of solicitors brought a legal claim against Mr P for unpaid fees from 2015. Mr P 
represented himself in the proceedings and tried to counterclaim on the basis the solicitors 
had been professionally negligent. I understand there was a hearing in November 2021 
following which the judge found against Mr P and he was ordered to pay the solicitors 
outstanding fees and the legal costs of the proceedings. Mr P had to pay around £56,000 in 
total.  
In January 2022, Mr P says he was reviewing his policy and realised that he had legal 
expenses cover. Mr P therefore contacted NFUM and submitted a claim for indemnity for the 
order made against him.
NFUM refused to pay the costs. It said the policy requires claims to be notified as soon as 
reasonably possible and Mr P had not notified it of the claim until after the proceedings had 
been concluded. NFUM said it therefore had no opportunity to assess if the claim was one 
that would be covered under the policy and whether Mr P had reasonable prospects of 
successfully defending the claim made against him. NFUM also said there were exclusions 
of cover for costs incurred without its prior approval. It refused to make any payment towards 
the costs. 
After further communications, NFUM agreed to set up a new claim to consider whether there 
might be cover for the costs of a legal claim for professional negligence against Mr Ps 
former solicitors.  
DAS instructed one of its panel solicitors to assess whether this claim had reasonable 
prospects of success. The panel solicitors concluded that Mr Ps allegations of negligence 
against his former solicitors had already been addressed by the court when considering the 
costs issue. The panel solicitors therefore said Mr P could not bring a claim now on the 
same issue. 
Mr P is not happy with this. He said he was not aware the legal expenses cover was 
included with his home insurance, he and his wife are pensioners and not savvy with 
insurance small print. He said it would be an injustice if his claim was not covered due to his 
ignorance about insurance procedure; he had purchased legal expenses cover and the 
benefit of the cover should not be withheld just because a procedure wasnt followed. 
DAS maintained its position on the claims. It also says the policy documentation is clear that 
it includes legal expenses cover and Mr P was sent the policy documentation each year 
when it renewed. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. The Investigator didnt think that NFUM had 
acted unfairly in refusing to pay the amount that had been awarded against Mr P, as it had 
acted in line with the policy terms.  The Investigator also didnt think NFUM had acted 
unfairly in relying on the panel solicitors advice about the potential claim for professional 
negligence against Mr Ps former solicitors. The Investigator said the policy cover including 
the legal expenses section of cover had been clearly set out in the documentation provided 
to Mr P and given this she did not think NFUM needed to do anything more. 
Mr P does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
Mr P has made a number of points in response to the Investigator and in his original 
complaint. I have considered everything he has said but have summarised his main points 
below: 
He only sought insurance cover for his property and third-party liability for visitors. He 
didnt know that NFUM had bundled legal expenses insurance with the policy. NFUM 
is hiding behind a procedure (the requirement to enquire with it before any legal 
action) which is at best unfair and at worst calculated. 
The claim procedure is to mitigate losses on unsuccessful claims not to exclude valid 
and fair claims. 
The panel solicitor did not assess the merits of the potential claim for professional 
negligence and did not even open the files. She simply noted it had been judged and 
now could not be re-examined. 
At the time of the legal proceedings, it was the middle of a worldwide emergency 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He and his wife were vulnerable and self-
isolating. This was not a normal situation. 
NFUM sent him a communication saying it was setting aside a special Covid-19 fund 
for vulnerable customers and it should pay the costs he is liable for out of this fund 
NFU should honour their pledge to help during Covid crisis and recognise that their 
customers were  more concerned about surviving than reading the small print. The 
Ombudsman is there to make NFU honour, from their special Covid fund, their 
pledge which overarches their policies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the Investigator, and for essentially
the same reasons.
Claim for payment of costs order
Mr Ps policy provides cover for the reasonable legal costs and expenses involved in certain 
specified legal disputes. This includes breach of contract, such as the defence and 
counterclaim Mr P was involved in with his former solicitors. The reasonable costs and expenses covered could include any third partys costs the 
policyholder is ordered to pay. But the policy does not cover any damages the policyholder is 
ordered to pay, so it would not cover the outstanding fees Mr P was ordered to pay his 
former solicitors (which I understand was around £28,000 of the £56,000 Mr P was required 
to pay).  
Like all insurance policies, the cover is subject to various terms and conditions. The terms in 
Mr Ps policy that are relevant to his claims state:
WHAT WE WILL NOT PAY
1) Late reported claims 
A claim where an INSURED PERSON has failed to notify  [NFUMs agent] of 
the insured incident within a reasonable time of it happening and where this 
failure adversely affects the REASONABLE PROSPECTS of a claim or  
[NFUMs agents] consider OUR position has been prejudiced.
2) Costs DAS have not agreed 
COSTS AND EXPENSES incurred before  [NFUMs agents] written 
acceptance of a claim
4) Legal action we have not agreed 
Any legal action an INSURED PERSON takes that  [NFUMs agent] or the 
REPRESENTATIVE has not agreed to, or where an INSURED PERSON does 
anything that hinders  [NFUMs agent] or the REPRESENTATIVE.
These terms, or similar, are common to most if not all legal expenses insurance policies and 
I do not consider them unfair or unreasonable. It is understandable that NFUM would want a 
degree of control over costs incurred and any legal action taken which might expose it to 
risk. 
Mr P says his claim would have been covered but for his failure to follow correct procedure 
and notify NFUM of the matter at the outset and so these terms should not be applied to his 
claim. 
However, these are not policy conditions, these are clear policy exclusions. It isnt a 
condition of the policy that the policyholder gets prior approval of legal costs and expenses 
but rather any costs incurred without NFUMs prior approval, or where legal action has been 
taken without NFUMs agreement, are simply excluded from cover. 
Mr Ps claim is for costs incurred without prior agreement from NFUM, and the result of legal 
action it had not agreed to. I am therefore satisfied that the exclusions 2) and 4) above apply 
to Mr Ps claim. 
In addition, the policy term 1) above excludes claims for matters where the insured incident, 
which might give rise to a legal claim, has not been reported to NFUM within a reasonable 
time, unless there has been no prejudice to NFUMs position as a result of the delay.  
If the claim had been notified in a reasonable time after Mr P became aware of it, NFUM 
would have been entitled to assess it to see if there were reasonable prospects of Mr Ps 
defence and counterclaim succeeding. NFUM wasnt given the opportunity to assess the 
claim and agree what action to take.
It isnt hard for a legal expenses insurer to establish that theyve been prejudiced by not 
being involved in the claim earlier. NFUM has said it is unlikely the case would have got to trial, if it had been involved. But, as stated as these costs are simply excluded under the 
terms 2) and 4) above, NFUM doesnt have to show it was prejudiced by the late notification.
Having considered all the circumstances, I do not therefore think NFUM has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in refusing cover for the adverse costs order made against Mr P. 
Knowledge of the cover
Mr P also says the terms should be disregarded because he was not aware of the policy 
cover at the relevant time and it would be unfair in those circumstances for him to not have 
the benefit of the cover. 
Mr P took out home insurance with NFUM for a number of years. This was on a non-advised 
sale, which means that NFUM did not give him advice about the suitability of the insurance 
cover. NFUM had an obligation to provide him with clear information about the policy and its 
main terms. 
I have considered the documentation provided to Mr P. It renewed annually and the first 
page of each renewal notice letter said 
Personal Legal Expenses
Included with your Legal Expenses cover, you have unlimited access to a personal 
legal advice telephone helpline to support you with everyday legal issues affecting 
you and your family. 
The document goes on to detail that there was legal expenses cover of up to £50,000. I think 
this is sufficiently clear and I do not agree that this was insurance small print. Mr P may not 
have realised he had legal expenses insurance but I do not think this was due to anything 
NFUM did, or did not, do. 
While Mr P may feel it is unfair that he didnt realise he had this cover which might have 
assisted him in these proceedings, as this was not due to anything NFUM did wrong, I do not 
agree that this means NFUM shouldnt rely on clear and unambiguous policy terms. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr Ps position, I do not consider that NFUM has done anything 
wrong. 
The claim for professional negligence against former solicitors
NFUM agreed to consider a potential claim for professional negligence against Mr Ps former 
solicitors. It instructed one of its panel solicitors to assess whether such a claim would have 
reasonable prospects of success.
It was a requirement of funding under the policy that any claim had reasonable prospects of
success, which was defined as: 
 
For civil cases, the prospects that the insured person will recover losses or 
damages. make a successful defence or make a successful appeal or defence of 
an appeal, must be at least 51%.
This requirement is also found in virtually all legal expenses policies and I do not consider it 
inherently unfair. 
The panel solicitors opinion was that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of
succeeding. They said: [The solicitors]  issued proceedings against him for outstanding fees and he 
defended the claim and counterclaimed citing negligence. He subsequently lost the 
case. I don't believe that the counterclaim was put to them very well but it was dealt 
with and as such he cannot now proceed with a claim against them as it would be an 
abuse of process.
Mr P says the panel solicitors didnt consider the merits of any legal action and didnt even 
open the files. However, the quote above is their conclusion on the prospects of any action. I 
think what they said is sufficiently clear: that there is no prospect of Mr P being able to make 
a claim now for professional negligence against his former solicitors. I am satisfied that 
NFUM is entitled to rely on this opinion and does not therefore have to take this any further.  
Covid support fund
Mr P also says that NFUM made a pledge of support for customers who were vulnerable and 
facing financial during the Covid-19 pandemic. He says this overarches the terms of the 
policy and this Service should be ensuring it honours that pledge. 
NFUM made some changes t o existing insurance policies and processes and set up a fund 
to assist customers directly affected by the pandemic, and those suffering financial hardship. 
I do not agree that this extends to NFUM agreeing to pay non-Covid-19 related claims that 
would not otherwise be covered. In any event, any payment from such a fund is discretionary 
and I cannot make NFUM pay any part of that fund to anyone. 
My role is to determine whether NFUM has dealt with Mr Ps claims fairly and reasonably 
and in line with the policy terms. For the reasons set out above, I consider it has done so 
and I do not require it to make any payment to Mr P.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman