DRN-2581953
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Integra Insurance Solutions Limited (Integra) has 
handled a subsidence claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, and our investigator provided 
a comprehensive timeline of events previously. So here Ive summarised whats happened. 
Any reference to Integra includes that of its representatives or agents unless specified.
In August 2016 Mr and Mrs H made a subsidence claim under their Integra buildings 
insurance. Integra accepted the claim and carried out monitoring, vegetation was 
removed and superstructure repairs were completed.
A complaint was brought to Integra and it agreed it didnt handle the claim up until 
that point as it shouldve, providing a final response letter (FRL1) to this effect in 
January 2018. 
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs H reported further cracks to Integra. This led to more 
monitoring and vegetation being removed. Around October 2019 Integra said it had 
established there was no further movement and superstructure repairs could begin. 
Mr and Mrs H complained to Integra, saying its initial repairs werent effective which 
had caused unnecessary delays. This meant they were unable to decorate or sell 
their home, and the experience had caused them distress and inconvenience.
Integra considered these complaint points and didnt agree. It issued a second final 
response letter (FRL2) in September 2020 saying the claim had been handled in a 
professional manner and in line with the terms of the policy.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She outlined a history 
of the claim from January 2018 onwards and said the time taken was reasonable 
given the subject matter, the time that monitoring can take, and the steps it needed to 
take (such as engaging with third parties) to ensure a lasting repair was carried out.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, saying Integra hadnt agreed to cash settle the claim  only 
the cost of decorating the property which they didnt want. They also said Integra had 
taken unnecessary steps to monitor further after the first repair had failed as a 
solution of underpinning had been suggested. And it had chosen the option of resin 
injections instead of underpinning to stabilise the property only for the reason of cost 
and not suitability. 
Our investigator looked again. She said the follow up monitoring had been necessary 
given the property was suffering ongoing movement. And that Integras repairs were 
not required to subsidence-proof the property, instead to simply provide an effective 
and lasting repair to the damage caused. About Integras decision to stabilise the 
property through resin injection as opposed to underpinning  she said this was 
ultimately Integras choice to make given it was supported by expert opinion to be an 
effective and lasting repair method.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
For clarity of all parties, the complaint Ive considered relates to the events that followed 
those covered in FRL 1.
Delays 
By their nature subsidence claims will often take some time to resolve. This is because 
insurers need to investigate, establish a cause, determine what steps need to be taken to 
repair, and then for the repairs to be carried out. So, when looking at whats happened, Ive 
considered each of the steps Integra has taken to decide if this was reasonable.
Ive considered the overall timeline of events of whats happened in this case, and without 
repeating the history I think Integra could have dealt with some aspects of the claim quicker 
than it did. But having looked at the actions Integra took, Im satisfied it was progressing the 
claim across this time. Ive also noted that there are interested third parties involved in this 
claim (a neighbour and a water company) who Integra has had to engage with to allow it to 
carry out works. And I think its clear these factors have impacted the time the claim has 
taken overall.
Mr and Mrs H have suggested that Integra carried out monitoring unnecessarily when cracks 
appeared in July 2018 onwards. While I understand their frustration at the additional time 
this took, I dont agree this was unnecessary.
Overall, across the life of the claim that Ive considered Ive not seen any substantial 
avoidable delays. So while I understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration that this hasnt 
proceeded at the speed they wouldve liked, Im not upholding this part of their complaint.
Stabilisation method
The terms of Mr and Mrs Hs policy allows Integra the option of how to settle the claim, 
including whether to repair, reinstate, or rebuild the part of the buildings that have been 
damaged or destroyed by an insured peril. This is common across policies of this nature and 
means it is Integras choice as to how to put things right when handling the claim.
Mr and Mrs H have suggested that Integra has selected the method of resin injection into the 
ground below the affected area of their property because it is a cheaper alternative to 
underpinning.
Insurers do consider costs when considering different methods of repair or how to settle a 
claim. This in itself isnt unfair, and I dont think its unreasonable to expect insurers to be 
prudent when making this kind of decision. However, in handling a claim and considering 
costs an insurer cannot lose sight of its obligations under the policy  and in this instance to 
ensure an effective and lasting repair.
Integra has shown its specialists proposed resin injection technique to resolve this matter and support the property, providing an effective and lasting repair. Mr and Mrs H havent 
provided any expert or technical evidence to the contrary.
So, based on the available expert opinion Im satisfied its proposed course of action is fair 
and reasonable with the intention of providing an effective and lasting repair. And while I 
understand their frustration that they feel this option doesnt provide them with the best long-
term solution, by adopting this approach Im satisfied Integra will have fairly fulfilled its 
obligations under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman