DRN-3896895
The complaint
Mr H complains that Quilter Life & Pensions Limited (Quilter) delayed the investment of his 
pension transfer payment from another provider, resulting in investment losses. He would 
like compensation for his losses. 
What happened
Mr H was transferring a plan with Aviva to a personal pension plan with Quilter through the 
Origo transfer service. Aviva updated Origo on 13 January 2022 that it had paid the transfer 
by BACs. Mr H called Quilter on 18 January 2022 for an update. He says Quilter told him 
that his funds would show on his account by 21 January 2022 at the latest. He says with no 
updates he called again on 1 March 2022, but his funds werent invested until the next day. 
Mr H complained about the delay. 
Quilter looked into the complaint and upheld it. It said the call handler should have told Mr H 
on 18 January 2022 that the investment would only been made once all requirements were 
met, including receiving necessary information from Aviva. It said Aviva provided details on 
20 January 2022, which was incorrect, and this was queried the same day. Aviva sent the 
correct information on 26 January 2022. Quilter said it should have invested the funds within 
two working days of this, so 28 January 2022. It undertook calculations to see if Mr H had 
been disadvantaged. These showed hed suffered a loss of £1,144.36. It adjusted his 
account to correct this and offered him £100 for the inconvenienced caused by it giving 
incorrect information on 18 January 2022.
Mr H didnt accept this. He said his funds should have been invested on 18 January 2022. 
He said price movements after that had been significant. He also said some of the transfer 
remained outstanding and Quilter hadnt sorted this out. It apologised and increased its offer 
of compensation to £150. It said it had now received a small residual payment from Aviva 
which was invested in May 2022. Mr H said if hed known about the delay, he would have 
changed investment instructions to hold cash. He said his losses were around £5,000.
Mr H referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it, but she didnt 
uphold it.
Our investigator said Quilter could have kept Mr H more informed and that it had caused a 
delay in making the investment once Aviva had confirmed the correct information to allow 
the transfer to be processed. But that it had already fairly corrected the loss caused by this 
delay. She said once Aviva had sent the residual payment, Quilter had invested it the next 
working day. She said Quilter should have explained it needed information from Aviva before 
the investment could be made, which might have prompted Mr H to chase Aviva for it. She 
said it wasnt possible to say what he would have done about the investment if hed known 
about the delay. So, it wasnt fair to use hindsight to say hed have definitely changed 
investments. She said it was fair that Quilter pay compensation over the misinformation and 
the failure to update Mr H, but she thought the £150 already offered was fair.
Mr H said our investigator hadnt addressed the fact that on 18 January 2022 Quilter hadnt 
advised him there was a problem in the information from Aviva. And it hadnt advised him of 
the problem after this, leaving him exposed to market movements. He said hed been 
invested in a cash fund with Aviva and would have:
definitely switched to a Cash Fund pending resolution of the problem.
And Quilter should:
now switch the account into their Cash Fund at the full amount transferred from 
Aviva
As Mr H doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Quilter couldnt set the plan up until it received both the funds and all necessary information 
from the transferring arrangement. Once this is received it allows two working days for it to 
process this and invest the funds, which is a reasonable timeframe. It did cause a short 
delay in investing the funds, but I think it has fairly compensated Mr H for the delay it 
caused. The greater delay was due to Aviva providing incorrect information in the first place, 
something Mr H may wish to take up with it if he hasnt already done so. Quilter queried the 
error with Aviva the same day. It may be that had it informed Mr H he could have expediated 
a response from Aviva, but theres no certainty of this. 
And when Mr H called Quilter on 18 January 2022, it told him what it knew at the time. As it 
hadnt had the information from Aviva it was unaware of the error. And why Aviva made the 
payment on 13 January but didnt send necessary information until 20 January 2022, is 
another question for Aviva. 
Ive listened to the call of 18 January 2022. Mr H says hes set himself up on Quilters online 
portal, but the transfer isnt showing. The call handler checks and says Aviva has confirmed 
it made payment on 13 January 2022. Based on BACs payment times and Quilters own 
processing time, the call handler says:
Id expect the payment to appear on the account by close of business on Friday (21 
January 2022) at the latest  and if it doesnt show up on Friday give us a ring on 
Monday and we can look into it for you. 
Whilst I agree the call handler could have caveated that this timeframe was subject to receipt 
of all necessary requirements, he doesnt tell Mr H the funds would definitely be invested by 
21 January 2022. He suggests that Mr H check the portal for updates and call back if it 
hadnt been received.
But Mr H didnt call back until 1 February 2022, when he noted that the price of the fund he 
wanted to invest in had increased quite a bit in the last two weeks and says that he:
should have the benefit of that increase. 
This suggests that Mr H wasnt considering changing his investment instruction to cash at 
the time due to the delay, despite what he says now. So, it isnt reasonable for him to argue 
that Quilter should now switch to cash at the original transfer value it received from Aviva. Mr Hs fund did then fall sharply due to World events, but I think he was comfortable with the 
risks involved when he called Quilter on 1 March 2022. And if his comfort level changed, he 
could have easily switched to alternative funds at any time. 
So, Quilter didnt tell Mr H he would definitely be invested by 21 January 2022. It suggested 
he check the portal rather than promising to keep him updated. It immediately followed up 
with Aviva when it received incorrect information. And it accepts it caused a two-day delay in 
investing the transfer, resulting in a loss which I think it has already fairly corrected. 
So, Quilter should have been clearer in explaining there were further requirements than just 
the receipt of funds from Aviva before the investment could be made. But I think any 
inconvenience caused was minor and the £150 compensation it has already offered Mr H is 
very fair under the circumstances. Mr H should contact Quilter if he now wishes to accept 
this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman