DRN-1074661
Complaint
Mr K has complained about the overdraft fees and interest The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) applied to his current account. Hes said at the time his income was made up solely 
from benefits and the interest, fees and charges added caused him financial hardship.
Background
Mr K complained to RBS in April 2019. RBS didnt agree with Mr Ks complaint. It
said Mr K complained too late. Mr K was dissatisfied at this response and asked us to look at 
his case.
Mr Ks complaint was then looked at by one of our investigators. While she didnt agree Mr K 
complained too late, she didnt think that RBS had done anything wrong as Mr K hadnt said 
he was in financial difficulty and RBS had in any event refunded some of the fees. So she 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr K disagreed with the investigator and asked 
for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts RBS charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at RBS charging structure per se, it wont have acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ks account 
in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where RBS didnt treat Mr K fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where RBS continued charging 
Mr K even though it knew he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was 
the case. 
I think its important for me to start by saying that RBS did refund a large proportion of the 
interest, fees and charges it added to Mr Ks overdraft. Given what Mr K has said about 
telling RBS he was in difficulty, I assume that RBS did this in response to what it was told by 
Mr K when he got in touch at the respective times. So it seems to me that RBS did treat Mr K 
fairly when it was notified of his financial difficulty and gave him breathing space. 
Ive also considered whether RBS should refund any of the other interest, fees and charges 
that it added to Mr Ks overdraft.
Mr K has said that his income was made up solely from benefits which he was receiving at a 
low rate. Ive thought about what Mr K has said. Its possible Mr Ks circumstances might 
have changed after the period Ive looked at. But having looked at transactions on Mr Ks 
account, which was closed in 2011, I can clearly see that Mr K was receiving a salary as well 
as working tax credit into his account. So Im satisfied that Mr Ks income wasnt made up 
solely from benefits at the time of these interest, fees and charges.  
Ive also looked through Mr Ks statements throughout the period concerned I cant see that 
RBS ought to have been aware that Mr K might have been struggling during the period he 
hasnt been refunded interest, fees and charges for either. Mr K may argue his regular use of 
his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was struggling. 
But its fair to say that there were periods when Mr Ks account balance was in credit. And 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mr K expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions as well as cash withdrawals from the account too. Equally the 
amount being credited to Mr Ks account each month didnt indicate that there was no 
reasonable prospect of him seeing a credit balance at any stage either.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted RBS to potential financial difficulty. So, in these circumstances 
and in the absence of being told anything by Mr K, I dont think that it was unreasonable for 
RBS to proceed with the interest, fees and charges it didnt refund. And I dont think RBS 
unfairly charged Mr K in circumstances where it ought to have realised that he may have 
been experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think that it needs to refund any of the other interest, fees and 
charges and Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr K. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Raquel Abrunho
Ombudsman