DRN-2105799
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he took under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B entered into a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance under 
which he took a used Mercedes over 49 months. The car had a cash price of just over 
£26,000 and a recorded mileage of just under 7,000. It was first registered in December 
2016.
The car was kept for repairs for some weeks before Mr B collected it. The work done 
included repairs to the sunroof, a seatbelt and air-conditioning. Mr B was given a courtesy 
car while the work was carried out. 
A few weeks later Mr B took the car abroad. He noticed that the headlights didnt adjust to 
driving on the right-hand side of the road as they were supposed to. He had that issue fixed 
and says he was told by the engineer that there were faults in the system.      
Mr B says his car broke down a few days later  when he was still outside the UK. Again, he 
took it to be repaired locally by Mercedes engineers. This time the engineers identified a 
number of faults, some of them consistent with the car having suffered accident damage 
which had been inadequately repaired. He contacted MotoNovo which arranged an 
independent inspection when the car was back in the UK. 
The inspection report identified some faults, including slight coolant leakage and oil misting, 
which were likely to be covered by the cars warranty. It recommended that the car be 
inspected under workshop conditions to establish whether there was any accident damage. 
MotoNovo concluded that there was no evidence of accident damage.
In October Mr B obtained a further report from Mercedes. That report concluded that there 
was structural damage and that the car had been fitted with the wrong front bumper. Mr B 
complained to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo said that it didnt believe the car had suffered any structural damage. None had 
been identified when the car was prepared before it was delivered to Mr B; there was no 
evidence of ay insurance claim in respect of damage to the car; and the independent 
inspection report hadnt identified any damage. In any event, if there had been damage, it 
couldnt have known about it.
Mr B referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She took the view however that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied and that MotoNovo should therefore unwind the finance agreement, return Mr 
Bs deposit, refund the money Mr B had spent on the Mercedes report and on repairs and 
pay Mr B a further £250 in recognition of the distress Mr B had suffered and the 
inconvenience to which hed been put. 
MotoNovo didnt accept the investigators recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case. Mr B said he thought it would be fair if, in addition to the investigators 
recommendations, MotoNovo should return some of the hire payments hed made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo was under a duty to supply Mr B with a car which was of satisfactory quality  
meaning a car which a reasonable person would regard as satisfactory in all the 
circumstances. 
I might expect a car of the age and mileage of Mr Bs to have some minor faults. Im satisfied 
however that the evidence here indicates that the car had not only suffered structural 
damage  most likely in an accident  but that inadequate repairs had been carried out. For 
understandable reasons, the engineer instructed by MotoNovo was only able to examine the 
car at Mr Bs home; he recommended further investigation under workshop conditions to 
check for collision damage. When Mercedes engineers were able to examine the car under 
workshop conditions, they concluded that there was evidence of structural damage. That 
had been the conclusion too of the engineers who had earlier repaired the car when it broke 
down abroad. 
In my view the fact that the car had suffered collision damage doesnt necessarily mean that 
it wasnt of satisfactory quality. In this case, however, the evidence indicates that adequate 
repairs hadnt been carried out and that at least one incorrect part  the front bumper  had 
been used. I think Mr B was entitled to expect that any repairs  whether structural or 
mechanical  had been carried out to a higher standard than that. 
I accept that MotoNovo was unaware of any problems, and even that it couldnt reasonably 
have identified them  especially if no insurance claim had been made. But the implied term 
under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to provide a vehicle of satisfactory quality wasnt 
dependent on MotoNovos knowledge of any defects. The issue is whether they were 
present, not whether MotoNovo knew about them.
MotoNovo has suggested too that any defects must have arisen after delivery of the car to 
Mr B. It says the car cant have had structural damage at delivery because it had undergone 
repairs to other items shortly before delivery; the engineers would have identified any 
problems when carrying out that work. Also, there was no evidence of an insurance claim. 
Im satisfied  for the reasons Ive explained  that there was evidence of poorly repaired 
accident damage within a few weeks of delivery. So, either it was present at delivery or Mr B 
was involved in an accident and had damage poorly repaired. I think thats unlikely. 
Putting things right
In my view, the investigators recommendation about how to resolve this matter was fair. 
Whilst I understand Mr Bs view that he should also receive some hire payments back, I 
believe that allowing him to return the car and refunding the deposit and repair costs is fair. I 
will however include interest on those elements of my award, at the contractual rate in the 
hire purchase agreement. My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Bs complaint in full, MotoNovo Finance Limited 
should:
allow Mr B to return the car at no cost to himself and write off any amounts otherwise 
due under the hire purchase agreement; 
refund the deposit of £5,000, together with interest at the contractual rate from the date 
of payment to the date of the refund; 
refund Mr Bs repair costs and the cost of the inspection report of 10 October 2019 (if 
appropriate, against proof of payment in each case), together with interest at the 
contractual rate from the date of payment to the date of the refund; and
pay Mr B £250 in recognition of the distress hes suffered and the inconvenience to 
which hes been put. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman