DRN-4237676
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (trading as iWeb) have taken too long 
transferring her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to Hargreaves Lansdown (HL). 
Despite initiating the switch back in February 2021, Mrs M says Halifax are yet to transfer 
her remaining two stock holdings.
What happened
In February 2021, Mrs M decided she wanted to move her SIPP from Halifax to HL. The 
SIPP contained a mixture of five different equities, five pooled funds and a cash balance. 
Mrs M wanted the transfer to be completed on an in-specie basis meaning the stocks and 
pooled funds would be moved across to HL without having to be sold down first.
The pooled funds were all transferred to HL by 22 July 2021 and three of the five stocks 
were sent by 13 October 2021. However, the two remaining stocks - Novartis and Roche 
that were originally purchased on the German Xetra Stock Exchange proved problematic to 
switch. Halifax wanted to transfer them both to HL on that exchange, however HL explained 
they could only accept them on the Swiss market, Euroclear or Crest. In addition, Halifax 
explained to Mrs M they were no longer able to sell those two holdings on her behalf 
because they didnt have access to a market on which they could trade them.
On 31 August 2021 Mrs M decided to formally complain to Halifax. She said in summary, 
that despite starting the transfer process in February 2021, she considered it unacceptable 
that Halifax still hadnt moved all her pension assets over to HL. She also felt a letter Halifax 
had sent her on 18 August 2021, where they explained she should call them to sell her 
Swiss stock, gave inaccurate information. In addition, she explained she was unhappy 
Halifax were unable to sell or transfer two of her holdings  Novartis and Roche, as there 
didnt appear to be a market on which they could be traded that Halifax had access to.
After reviewing Mrs Ms complaint, Halifax concluded they were satisfied theyd done nothing 
wrong. They also said in summary, as the two stocks that remained in Mrs Ms SIPP were 
held on the Swiss market and they didnt have the ability to trade on that exchange, Halifax 
didnt believe they were at fault for the delays. They went on to explain that should Mrs M 
wish to sell the stocks, she would need to transfer them away to a foreign broker. 
Mrs M was unhappy with Halifaxs response so she referred her complaint to this service. In 
summary, she repeated the same concerns  explaining that she was unhappy with the 
length of time it took Halifax to process her transfer, combined with the fact she was never 
advised about the problems with her Swiss stock becoming untradable. She concluded by 
explaining she was unhappy at still having to pay charges on the Halifax SIPP as it couldnt 
be closed.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that Halifax 
hadnt treated Mrs M fairly. She went on to say that she felt thered been unnecessary delays 
in the switch and that Halifaxs letter of August 2021 had only served to confuse matters. Our 
Investigator felt Mrs M couldve found out sooner about Halifaxs inability to transfer her 
Roche and Novartis stocks. Thats because HL had asked Halifax as early as June 2021 
how those two stocks were being moved but Halifax didnt initially respond to their queries. 
Our Investigator determined that Halifax should pay Mrs M £250 for the trouble theyd 
caused her.
However, Mrs M disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that had 
Halifax alerted her that they were removing the facility to sell certain types of shares then 
she could have taken steps to sell her impacted equities before the new rules came into 
force. Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs M asked for her complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
After considering Mrs Ms complaint, I issued a provision decision on the case. I explained 
that I was planning on upholding her complaint but I wanted to add wider context and 
reasoning to that of our Investigator. In addition, I also explained that I was planning on 
amending the redress that I believed Halifax needed to pay Mrs M to put things right. For 
completeness, Ive included my provisional decision below.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs M has and Ive done so using 
my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this, our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. Instead, I will focus on what I find to be the two key issues here  and thats Mrs 
Ms disappointment that the transfer took as long as it did and also the subsequent barriers 
shes encountered in trying to switch the final two equity holdings.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
Investigator. Whats also important to note is this complaint is about the actions of Halifax 
rather than anyone else, so Ill only be focusing on any shortcomings from the service 
theyve provided Mrs M. However, I should explain that whilst the SIPP is branded as an 
iWeb (Halifax) product, the administration on the pension is provided by a third party - AJ 
Bell - on Halifaxs behalf. This means that Halifax is reliant on their administrator to help 
facilitate the transfer to HL. But that doesnt mean Halifax can absolve itself of any mistakes 
its administrator makes. Ill explain why.
I have not seen any evidence to show that Mrs M had any direct contractual relationship or 
agreement with Halifaxs third party. It seems to me that her only contract is with Halifax. It 
was up to Halifax as to how services were delivered under the contract with Mrs M. If, as 
seems to be the case here, it had used a third party to do some of the administration, that 
did not absolve Halifax from responsibility for performance of the contract with Mrs M. The 
law would say that the third party was performing those administrative functions as an agent 
for Halifax and it remained wholly responsible to Mrs M for that performance whether 
delivered by themselves or by the third party. It was possible that the terms of the agreement 
between Halifax and the third party apportion responsibility and liability for errors behind the 
contractual relationship. But that did not mean Mrs M had to deal with AJ Bell in a way that 
mirrors the contract between Halifax and the third party. I say that because she was not a party to it. For those reasons I think Halifax and not AJ Bell is the correct party to the specific 
points raised in this complaint.
As Ive already explained, Mrs M asked for her pension to be moved on an in-specie basis. 
That meant Halifax would move her existing underlying holdings directly to HL without first 
selling them. That process typically takes longer because theres more work involved 
between both sides. Both Halifax and HLs respective websites suggest such transfers can 
take far longer than cash switches although definitive timescales are not given.
Ive looked closely at the timeline from the point Mrs M informed Halifax that she wished to 
transfer to HL to the point at which all but two of her holdings were moved. I dont intend to 
repeat that timeline here because the facts are well known to both parties and our 
Investigator has already provided a detailed breakdown of what happened and when in her 
view on 20 September 2022. Instead, Ive only focused on the various stages within that 
process where I think there were unnecessary delays. Importantly though, as the holdings 
were switched on an in-specie basis, that meant Mrs Ms monies remained in the market 
throughout and therefore, she wouldnt have suffered a financial loss by the delays. I say 
that because, with the exception of two of her holdings, had she wanted to, Mrs M couldve 
asked either Halifax or HL to sell any of her investments at any time during the switch 
process.
As I explained earlier, Mrs Ms Halifax SIPP held five pooled funds and five different equities. 
When HL originally wrote to Halifax on 26 May 2021, they stated they wished to move four of 
her pooled funds and four of her separate stock holdings.
The transfer of Mrs Ms pooled funds
Halifax originally wrote to Mrs M on 11 February 2021 to explain theyd received the transfer 
correspondence from HL. Two weeks later, HL sent that paperwork to AJ Bell who 
administer the SIPP for Halifax who then in turn tried to pass it to the Halifax on 3 March 
2021. 
It wasnt until 11 May 2021 that Halifax then sent the necessary valuation to HL  a total of 
76 days after AJ Bell received the transfer paperwork. Whilst part of those delays were 
attributable to Halifaxs third party administrator because an incorrect email address was 
used to contact iWeb, given AJ Bell act as agent for the Halifax (as Ive already explained), 
Im viewing any delays caused by their administrator as attributable to Halifax. 
HL confirmed back to the Halifax on 26 May 2021 they accepted the transfer. Three of the 
pooled funds settled on 8 June 2021 and the fourth pooled fund settled nearly two weeks 
later on 21 June 2021. So that part of the switch process took just under 4 months. I find it 
more likely than not that had Halifax been more proactive in dealing with the switch  that is 
to say, responded in a timelier manner and the errors not occurred - the pooled funds could 
have been switched in no more than two months from the point at which HL had sent the 
transfer paperwork to Halifaxs administrator.
The transfer of Mrs Ms stock holdings
Mrs Ms SIPP held five stocks; four of those were Microsoft, Abbvie, Roche and Novartis. On 
25 June 2021, HL contacted Halifax for an update on the remaining holdings in Mrs Ms 
SIPP. After chasing Halifax on three further occasions, it wasnt until 13 July 2021 (19 days 
later) that they proposed settlement dates for two of the holdings to HL. 
HL had originally suggested a settlement date of 12 August 2021 and whilst Halifax was able 
to meet that deadline for the Microsoft holding, that date was missed for her Abbvie stock.It appears Halifax made a number of attempts to transfer the Abbvie stock to HL. Despite not 
upholding Mrs Ms complaint in their case investigation paperwork, Halifax have conceded 
their attempts to transfer the Abbvie stock on 3, 8 and 16 September and 1 October 2021 all 
failed because they were either too late inputting their instructions (so theyd be received in 
the US market on time) or they didnt input the instructions correctly. That stock was 
eventually settled into Mrs Ms HL pension on 13 October 2021. 
Despite the inputting errors, given both the Abbvie and Microsoft stocks were being 
transferred through the Depository Trust Company, I wouldve expected the transfer to 
happen simultaneously with the pooled funds rather than being dealt with after the pooled 
funds settled. It appears that from the point Halifax agreed a settlement date of the Microsoft 
stock (13 July), they were able to move it to HL within a month. 
As Ive already explained, there were several parties involved in this transfer and Halifax 
would only send the stock when a settlement date had been agreed with HL. But from the 
point at which Halifax and HL started initiating the stock transfer, from what Ive seen, at 
least 82 days worth of delays are directly attributable to Halifax (63 days for the period of 12 
August to 13 October 2021 and 19 days covering the period up to 13 July 2021). So it seems 
that, even allowing for some delays, both Microsoft and Abbvie stocks could have been 
switched to HL within the same timescales as the pooled funds - that is to say, no more than 
two months.
Mrs Ms Novartis and Roche holdings were the result of previous Swiss stock purchases 
made through the German Xetra Stock Exchange - both of which were purchased in March 
2019. In June 2019, following the expiration of the equivalency agreement between the EU 
and Switzerland, Halifax were no longer able to trade on the Swiss Stock Exchange. In 
short, that change meant the Swiss authorities removed authorisation for Swiss share 
trading on EU venues. As Halifax didnt trade directly on the Swiss market, this removed 
their capability to arrange trading and settlement of Swiss shares, meaning they could no 
longer sell Mrs Ms shares for her.
Based on what Halifax says, its inability to successfully transfer the Novartis and Roche 
shares arose from issues that were outside of its control. On balance, Im persuaded by its 
explanation involving the EU and the Swiss exchange and that it simply couldnt transfer the 
shares. Halifax asked HL if they were able to accept a transfer of the two holdings to Mrs Ms 
SIPP via the German Xetra exchange but HL could only facilitate a transfer via the Swiss 
exchange, Euroclear or Crest, something Halifax couldnt do. 
Despite what Mrs M says about Halifaxs obligations, Im mindful that it provides an 
execution only service and therefore it isnt responsible for giving any advice. On balance, it 
could be argued that Mrs M (as a non-advised investor) ought to have known what was 
going on with the Novartis and Roche shares globally, rather than expecting or relying on 
Halifax to notify her. In addition, when deciding to proceed with a non-advised pension 
switch, its up to the consumer to ensure the new scheme theyre wishing to move into has 
the capability to accept those investments. And importantly, when Mrs M first started the 
transfer process, Halifaxs email to her of 11 February 2021 explained that it was her 
responsibility to ensure the custodian of the receiving scheme was able to accept the assets 
she was wishing to transfer. So that meant the onus was on Mrs M to check before starting 
the process. However, I have seen evidence that she did just that and on 1 February 2021, 
HL explained to Mrs M that all the investments she wished to switch, were available on their 
platform. But, whilst all those stocks were available to purchase with HL, importantly the 
manner in which HL needed Halifax to transfer the stocks to them wasnt available to Mrs M. 
And, as Ive already explained, HL couldnt accept those stocks in the format in which Halifax 
were able to send them. I dont think its quite as simple as that though.On balance, I think Mrs M shouldve been furnished with the correct and up to date 
information about her Novartis and Roche shares much sooner. Whilst they just provide an 
execution only service, I still think its incumbent on Halifax to ensure Mrs M had all the 
information necessary to make balanced decisions. In doing so, Halifax wouldve managed 
her expectations better. In other words, Halifax shouldve made its position clear when it 
realised there could be a problem for investors in June 2019 rather than allowing Mrs M to 
find out by chance in August 2021. Had they done, Mrs M wouldve been in an informed 
position and a decision couldve been made at that point on how she wished to proceed.
Halifax were asked by this service when they were made aware of the expiry of the 
agreement between the EU and Switzerland. Halifaxs dealing team were unable to confirm 
the exact date they were informed. They did however go on to state they implemented a 
temporary short-term workaround that enabled customers to sell their Swiss holdings over 
the telephone after the restrictions came into place. Despite being asked on a number of 
occasions, Halifax has failed to explain how consumers were made aware of the short-term 
workaround and why Mrs M was also not informed of it at the time. I think it more likely than 
not, had Halifax highlighted the likely impending problems with her Swiss stocks, Mrs M 
wouldve sold them. I say that because Mrs M has on several occasions throughout her 
interactions with Halifax attempted to sell both stocks to facilitate the transfer.
HL flagged to Halifax on multiple occasions (three times in July 2021 and once in August 
2021) that they wouldnt be able to accept the Novartis and Roche stock through the 
German market. So on 10 August 2021, HL explained to Halifax they would ask Mrs M if she 
wanted to transfer that stock as cash instead. I think its at this point that Halifax missed an 
opportunity to speak to Mrs M and position the problem. On 12 August 2021, HL confirmed 
to Halifax that having liaised in with Mrs M, she was happy for those two stocks to be sold. 
Rather than explaining that they didnt have the ability to sell the stock, its at this point 
Halifax wrote to Mrs M and asked her to contact their call centre to arrange for the two 
stocks to be sold. Despite then spending an hour on the phone to Halifax, she was then told 
they were unable to sell the stock and theyd have to be transferred away to a foreign broker. 
I can well imagine Mrs Ms frustration at spending the time she did on the telephone to 
Halifax trying to sell the Roche and Novartis shares after having received their letter from 18 
August 2021  especially when she would never have been able to do so given the 
restrictions in place. And, from what Ive seen, despite her requests for updates on her 
switch to HL, Halifax failed to keep Mrs M abreast of what was happening. I also understand 
that Halifax told Mrs M they couldnt help her and for her to telephone AJ Bell - and then 
when she did call them, they were surprised to receive a call from her as they werent aware 
of the situation. So it seems their approach wasnt joined up.
Mrs Ms other investment holdings
As Ive already explained, Mrs Ms Halifax SIPP held five pooled funds and five different 
equities and a cash balance. So far, Ive only covered what happened with four of each of 
them. When HL originally explained to Halifax on 26 May 2021 that Mrs Ms holdings were to 
be transferred on an in-specie basis, they didnt include her THG shares or her Vanguard 
Gilt fund on the list of investments they wanted to be moved to themselves. 
On 13 July 2021, Halifax made an assumption that the final two investments were to be 
moved in-specie and asked HL if they were able to accept both holdings nine days later. 
And, on 22 July 2021, both investments settled into her HL SIPP. So, it seems unreasonable 
to hold Halifax accountable for the fact that those two investments werent switched until July 
2021 as HL never originally positioned that those two investments were to be moved on an 
in-specie basis.The time taken to transfer the SIPP cash balance
Turning to the £180,000 in cash that Mrs M says shed not been able to invest since 
February 2021, Ive thought about whether Halifax acted reasonably in respect of that 
element of her pension fund or whether they shouldve sent the monies to HL sooner. On 27 
September 2021, Mrs M asked the scheme administrator to send that cash to her HL SIPP. 
Halifax sent the cash to the scheme administrator on 18 October 2021, who then sent those 
funds to HL on 22 October 2021.
Im not persuaded that the business did anything wrong by not transferring the cash first at 
the outset before transferring the equities. Thats because its a common industry practice 
therefore Halifax hasnt done anything wrong by not doing so. In these circumstances I cant 
say they behaved unreasonably or that it treated Mrs M unfairly by not transferring the cash 
first. Halifaxs letter of 11 February 2021 positioned that theyd take this approach.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs M needed or wanted the money urgently to buy any 
specific shares. Even if she decided to use the money to buy shares in the future, in these 
circumstances that doesn't mean the business is responsible for her not being able to do so 
sooner or for any loss. In any event, Mrs M couldve used the cash to purchase specific 
shares if thats what she wanted to do and then transfer them in-specie, but she made no 
effort to do so.
Whilst Mrs M may take the view that the delay deprived her of the opportunity to invest her 
cash, I cant blame Halifax for this. But once Mrs M emailed the scheme administrator to 
request the cash transfer, I note it took them nearly 4 weeks, or 26 days to be precise. I dont 
think thats reasonable  particularly when their letter of 11 February 2021 explained that 
when cash is transferred, it usually takes up to five working days. 
Summary
Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint. As Ive already explained, I think Halifaxs actions resulted 
in the unnecessary delays in switching four of her five pooled funds, two of her stocks and 
her cash balance to HL. I think that had Halifax acted more proactively, her pension (aside 
from the Novartis and Roche stock) couldve more likely than not been switched to HL within 
two months. Fortunately, for both Halifax and Mrs M, her investments were being moved on 
an in-specie basis so the financial impact is limited.
Whilst Ive acknowledged that Halifax operates a non-advised service and I accept that 
theyre unable to trade those two holdings (Novartis and Roche) through no fault of their 
own, Halifax didnt provide clear and accurate information to Mrs M when it wouldve been 
reasonable to do so. They failed to inform Mrs M of changes to their ability to trade her 
shares in 2019 (and specifically the workaround solution that was available to other 
consumers) and they also sent her an inaccurate letter in August 2021 that resulted in Mrs M 
wasting time trying to sell her shares when, by Halifaxs own admission, she wouldve never 
been able to do so.
Had Halifax provided Mrs M with the same information it gave other consumers about the 
impending changes to the Swiss/ EU market, Mrs M wouldve had the choice on whether to 
sell her Roche and Novartis shares in June 2019.
Responses to my provisional decision
In summary, Mrs M explained that she wished to make the point that Halifax had allowed her 
to purchase stocks in March 2019 after the restrictions with Swiss trading had already come 
into force. And, they failed to inform her of any impending problems with the ability to sell that Swiss stock on their platform until it was too late. She felt shed not been treated fairly 
by Halifax because other customers were advised of the workaround theyd put in place to 
sell Swiss stocks but she hadnt been informed of that option.
Mrs M also explained that she felt the fees shed paid to Halifax from the date shed applied 
for the pension switch should be refunded.
Despite being prompted, Halifax didnt respond to the provisional decision. However, in 
response to a series of earlier queries raised about the consumers inability to sell her Swiss 
stock and what steps Halifax had put in place when they learned that consumers wouldnt be 
able to trade their Swiss holdings, they did however explain that as an execution only 
service, Halifax isnt permitted to provide any information that could be construed as 
investment advice. In summary, they also said that in a fast-moving environment such as 
share dealing, such events wouldnt be communicated to consumers. Halifax also said 
monitoring such external factors and making changes to iWebs offering based on them 
would not be practical. Instead, a temporary workaround enabling customers to sell their 
Swiss holdings over the phone was available after the stocks were restricted, so that iWeb 
could ensure its customers were not taken out of the market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered both sets of submissions, Im not persuaded to alter the outcome of my 
original provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Whilst I understand the challenges that Halifax have described when faced with evolving 
regulation and changes, the issue at the heart of Mrs Ms complaint (that of being unable to 
trade or switch her Swiss investments) wasnt just a normal geopolitical issue  it was a 
significant change to consumers ability to trade investments on their platform. And, despite 
what Halifax says about not making changes to their offering because of geopolitical events, 
they had to do just that because of the trading restrictions that came into place in 2019. 
Whilst Ive already acknowledged that Halifax operates a non-advised service, they didnt 
provide clear and accurate information to Mrs M when it wouldve been reasonable to do so. 
I dont agree that providing factual information about changes to the limitations of their 
service wouldve been construed as investment advice. They failed to inform Mrs M of 
changes to their ability to trade her shares in 2019 and specifically the workaround solution 
that was available to other consumers. The latter point meant Mrs M wasnt treated in the 
same way as other consumers. Halifax clearly knew there was an issue because by their 
own admission, they had to introduce a temporary workaround but that wasnt shared with 
Mrs M. 
Mrs M explained that she felt the fees shed paid to Halifax from the date shed applied for 
the pension switch should be refunded. Having thought about this, Im unable to support that 
view. Thats because, whilst theres no doubt Halifax delayed switching her investments 
across to HL, they still provided a custodial service for her investments from February 2021 
until they were eventually moved to HL in various stages. Once the investments arrived in 
the new pension, its at that point that she started paying HL charges on those monies. And, 
whether the monies were at Halifax or HL, she wouldve incurred fees on those funds. Ive 
looked at the fees Halifax charge compared to HL and the amount Mrs M had invested and 
Im satisfied the difference in charges are modest in nature. Allied to this, Im awarding Mrs M £1,000 for the trouble and upset Halifax have caused her, so overall, Im satisfied a fair 
outcome has been reached.
Halifax have now contacted this service explaining a workaround has been put in place and 
Mrs M would now be able to move her remaining Novartis and Roche stock to HL should she 
wish.
Putting things right
As Ive already explained, Im having to make a number of assumptions in reaching my 
conclusion and working out what should have happened and when isnt an exact science. 
The aim of this service is to resolve complaints quickly and informally for the benefit of both 
parties, but I think what Ive decided is fair and reasonable.
Ive thought carefully about the trouble and upset Halifax have caused Mrs M, and 
particularly the length of time its taken to reach this point where a workaround has been 
offered and as such, Im instructing Halifax to pay her £1,000. Im satisfied that an award at 
this level recognises the significant inconvenience that Halifax have caused Mrs M not only 
in the delays she encountered in moving her pension to HL but also the inaccurate 
information Halifax provided to her. Importantly, it acknowledges their failure to inform Mrs M 
of the changes to their EU/Swiss trading functionality workaround which would have then 
resulted in Mrs M being given the choice on whether she wished to either retain, trade or 
transfer those stocks elsewhere. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Halifax Share Dealing Limited to take the action Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman