DRN-2320324
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how the Society of Lloyds dealt with a claim they made for 
damage to their furniture.
What happened
In December 2014 Mr and Mrs B purchased a dining table and six dining table chairs from a 
retailer that Ill refer to here as C. They also purchased a furniture protection plan policy of 
insurance, which provided cover for individual incidents or accidental staining and/or 
accidental damage and/or structural damage. This policy was underwritten by the Society of 
Lloyds (Lloyds).
On 21 July 2019 Mr and Mrs B said four castors came off their dining table  there had been 
six castors fitted to it when it was bought to enable it to be portable. As a result, Mr and Mrs 
B said their dining table was unsteady and no longer useable. So, they informed Lloyds they 
wanted to make a claim under their policy.
 
Lloyds appointed a technician to inspect the damage Mr and Mrs B had reported in order to 
assist it in dealing with their claim. When the technician inspected Mr and Mrs Bs dining 
table they said the holes for the wheel grommets had become too large. So, the castors 
were falling out. The technician therefore removed the remaining 2 castors and fitted felt 
pads to the bottom of each table leg. 
Mr and Mrs B said they understood the technicians repair to be a temporary fix. But Lloyds 
said the technician advised this was the only repair theyd been able to undertake. And they 
informed Lloyds that the felt pads theyd fitted had made the table stable and useable, while 
still allowing it to be easily moved around without causing damage to the floor.
As the technician was unable to repair Mr and Mrs Bs dining table to its original condition, 
Lloyds looked to replace it. But this wasnt possible as the table was no longer 
manufactured. So, it offered Mr and Mrs B the opportunity of choosing a new dining table 
from C with a 50% contribution towards any matching chairs  subject to a total value of 
£1230.80. It said, in the alternative, if Mr and Mrs B chose to keep their dining table it would 
pay them a cash settlement of £615.40.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the settlement Lloyds had proposed and felt it hadnt assessed 
their furniture claim fairly. They said their dining chairs should be considered as a set with 
their dining table. So, they thought Lloyds offer to resolve their claim should include the full 
cost of replacing their chairs. They therefore complained about how Lloyds had dealt with 
their claim. 
On 22 November 2019 Lloyds issued its final response to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Within 
that response it stated that it thought its settlement offer was fair and it wasnt prepared to 
change it. It did, however, accept that thered been communication that could have caused 
confusion and it offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £25 compensation to recognise this.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds intended to resolve their claim Mr and Mrs B referred 
their complaint it to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but they 
didnt uphold this complaint. Overall, they thought Lloyds had acted fairly and didnt need to 
take any further action. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view of their 
complaint. So, they asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly, in how it decided to settle their claim. I understand that Mr and Mrs B have also 
complained about the service they received from Lloyds in its progression of their claim. 
However, as our investigator explained, this is the subject of a separate complaint. And, as 
such, this final decision will not address that issue. Instead I will focus this decision on 
whether Lloyds offer to settle Mr and Mrs Bs claim was fair and reasonable and in line with 
the policy they hold.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Id like to thank Mr and Mrs B and 
Lloyds for the level of detail contained within their submissions. Ive read and considered all 
the information provided and, I havent specifically referred to a point that Mr and Mrs B or 
Lloyds have made it isnt because I havent considered it. My decision will focus on what I 
think are the key issues, which is an approach that reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy with Lloyds covers the furniture they purchased from C for individual 
incidents or accidental staining and/or accidental damage and/or structural damage. In this 
case Lloyds attributed the fault to Mr and Mrs Bs dining table to be accidental damage. So, 
it was satisfied they had a valid claim under their policy.
Where a repair cannot be undertaken, the terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy permit Lloyds to 
provide an identical replacement of the damaged item of furniture. In the event of this not 
being possible, Lloyds is entitled to offer a policyholder an amount of money so they can 
choose a replacement product from the retailer they made their original purchase from. 
Alternatively, it can offer a sum of money if a policyholder wishes to keep the item of 
furniture instead of replacing it. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Lloyds has been unable to replace Mr 
and Mrs Bs table as its no longer available. And its also unable repair the table to its 
previous condition. So, its offered two options of resolving Mr and Mrs Bs claim instead. Ive 
therefore carefully considered whether those options are fair.
Lloyds first offer of resolving Mr and Mrs Bs claim is to cover the full cost of replacing their 
dining room table. Their invoice from C shows they paid £849.95 for their dining table. So, 
Im satisfied Lloyds hasnt made an error in assessing the value of Mr and Mrs Bs dining 
table here.
As part of this offer Lloyds has told Mr and Mrs B its only prepared to cover half the cost of 
their undamaged dining chairs. Its clear from what Mr and Mrs B have told our service that 
they feel this is unfair. 
Mr and Mrs B believe that their chairs are part of a set so Lloyds offer should be increased 
to cover the full cost of replacing all six chairs. Their policy with Lloyds is silent on how it deals with claims involving undamaged matching items or sets. So, Ive considered industry 
guidelines and our general approach in dealing with such complaints.
Where an insurance policy only refers to cover for a damaged item of furniture, our services 
typical position in considering claims for undamaged matching items is that an insurer should 
pay 50% towards the cost of replacing a matching item of furniture. Industry guidelines also 
follow this approach.
In this case Mr and Mrs Bs dining table was damaged while their chairs werent. Their 
invoice from C clearly shows that while their dining table and chairs appear to be from the 
same range they were sold as separate items. Put simply, Mr and Mrs B could have 
purchased the chairs without purchasing the table and vice versa.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that the dining chairs and table were 
sold as a set. But I think its also important to say that even if they had been this wouldnt 
affect the overall outcome of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. I say this because Lloyds said it would 
still have offered Mr and Mrs B half the value of their undamaged chairs. And wed still say 
that offering 50% of the value of undamaged items, which are part of a set, is a fair and 
reasonable approach. 
I can see from Mr and Mrs Bs invoice they paid £159.95 per chair. I therefore think Lloyds 
offer to pay £479.85 to replace all six chairs is fair and reasonable  this being half the 
amount they paid for their chairs in December 2014.
As an alternative resolution to Mr and Mrs Bs claim Lloyds offered to pay them £615.40 if 
they wanted to retain their dining table. I think this offer was reasonable  taking into account 
the price Mr and Mrs B paid for their table. And Im satisfied that, in giving Mr and Mrs B two 
distinct options of settling their claim, Lloyds was acting fairly.
I can see that Lloyds has deducted £99 from the offers its made. Its explained this 
deduction covers the cost of repairs from a previous claim Mr and Mrs B made. I dont think 
thats unreasonable and the policy Mr and Mrs B hold with Lloyds entitled it to do this. I can 
see Mr and Mrs B raised concerns about the quality of the previous repair undertaken. But 
that isnt something that Im going to be able to help them with as part of this complaint. Im 
therefore persuaded that Lloyds hasnt acted unfairly in reducing the total settlement it 
offered to reflect the cost of the previous repair.
I can see that Mr and Mrs B informed our investigator that they had a discussion with 
Lloyds, which caused them to believe that it would increase its settlement offer to include 
the full value of their dining table chairs. 
Like our investigator, Ive listened to all call recordings Lloyds provided our service. During 
one of the discussions Mr and Mrs B had with Lloyds it said it would check the settlement 
calculation. But this followed Mr and Mrs B telling Lloyds they thought their dining chairs and 
table were a set. So, Im not persuaded Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs B or gave them a 
legitimate expectation that it would change its previous offer.
Finally, I understand Lloyds offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £25 compensation to recognise the 
poor communication they experienced as it accepted this may have caused confusion. Im 
satisfied that this amount fairly reflects the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B would have been 
caused. Its in line with awards our service has made in similar circumstances and its what I 
would have suggested had no offer been made. So, I wont be requiring Lloyds to increase 
the amount its already offered. I realise Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with this decision. But Im persuaded overall that 
Lloyds has dealt with their furniture claim fairly. It follows that I wont be asking it to do 
anything further. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr and Mrs Bs 
dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help any further with this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman