DRN-3917198
The complaint
Mrs and Mr E have complained that AWP P&C SA have declined their claim for theft and 
provided poor customer service.
 
What happened
Mrs and Mr E held a travel insurance policy with AWP. The policy is a joint policy, but Mr E 
has raised this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife, so when I refer to Mr E I am 
referring to both of them.  
In May 2022 Mrs and Mr E were on a golfing holiday abroad staying at a five star golf resort.
They went out one morning to play a round of golf on the resort, and Mrs E placed her 
handbag at the bottom of a wire basket on the back of the golf buggy, covering it with other 
items. The handbag contained some cash, her mobile phone, and some jewellery. 
When they returned to the clubhouse at around 3pm, Mrs E discovered her handbag was 
missing, presumed stolen. 
Mrs E made a claim when she returned home but AWP rejected the claim as they said that 
Mrs Es handbag was left unattended when on the golf buggy. Mr E complained but AWP 
maintained their stance.  
Mr E wasnt happy with the response and so he brought the complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Es complaint. He thought that AWP had acted 
fairly in declining the claim. Mr E didnt agree and so the matter has come to me to review.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint, and I will explain why below.
 
I have to consider whether in declining the claim, AWP have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy and have done so fairly and reasonably.
The terms of the policy in relation to baggage  which would include a handbag -  say at 
section 5:
What is not covered:
2. Any loss, theft or damage to valuables left unattended at any time (including in a 
vehicle of the custody of carriers) unless deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit 
box, or left in your locked accommodation
3. Loss, theft of or damage to baggage contained in an unattended vehicle unless:
a. the items are locked out of sight in a secure baggage area;
b. forcible and violent means have been used by an unauthorised person to gain 
entry into the vehicle; and 
c. evidence of such entry is available. 
The conditions further state that the policyholder must:
Take suitable precautions to secure the safety of your baggage (including 
valuables), and must not leave any items unsecured, unattended or beyond your 
reach at any time in a place to which the public have access.
Mr E has made several points which he feels AWP havent taken into account when 
declining the claim. 
He has said that the golf course was private property to which there should not have been 
any public access, that there is no secure baggage area on a golf buggy to lock the items 
away, and that leaving possessions on a golf buggy on a private resort, isnt the same as 
leaving them in an unlocked car on a public highway or leaving a handbag unattended in a 
restaurant.  
Ive thought about the points that Mr E has raised, but Im satisfied that AWP have applied 
the terms fairly. I understand that Mrs and Mr E will have felt that the golf course was a safe 
environment, being on a private resort, and they seemingly felt comfortable leaving their 
possessions unsecured in such an environment. I also appreciate that from having spent 
many years on similar holidays they may have developed a confidence in doing so.  
However, Im satisfied that the policy terms are clear that theft of a bag from an unattended 
vehicle is excluded from cover. I am satisfied that a golf buggy is a vehicle within the  
ordinary meaning of vehicle as  a machine, usually with wheels and an engine, used for 
transporting people or goods, especially on land, and so in accordance with the terms of the 
policy any baggage would need to be locked in a secure baggage area. I appreciate that the 
golf buggy didnt have a lockable secure baggage area on it, and that if there had been one, 
Mr and Mrs E would have used it, but I dont think it is sufficient to say the handbag being 
hidden out of sight under other bags satisfies the policy term. 
So, Ive then thought about whether the golf buggy was unattended.  Unattended is defined 
in the policy as When you are not in full view of and not in a position to prevent 
unauthorised interference with your property or vehicle. 
Mr E originally said there were times when they didnt have full sight of the golf buggy due to 
having to leave it at the edge of the green, although he has later said that they were always 
in a position to keep the buggies under observation. However, Im satisfied that AWPs 
decision that the buggy was unattended is reasonable given Mr Es initial report. I also think 
that realistically, if the buggy had been in full view and under observation at all times, one of 
the party would have seen the theft take place given that the handbag could not easily have 
been removed without taking other baggage off the buggy first.
 
In addition to the above exclusion, the exclusion at Section 5 clause (2) has also been 
applied by AWP. For valuables such as mobile phones and jewellery left unattended to be 
covered under this policy, they need to be deposited in a hotel safe, safety deposit box, or 
left in locked accommodation, which its fair to say they werent.  
Ultimately, it was Mr and Mrs Es responsibility to ensure that their personal and valuable 
possessions were secure in line with the terms of the policy. Im satisfied that AWP have fairly concluded that the items were left unattended and out of reach on a golf course. I note 
that Mr E has said that it was not a place to which the public have access, but as it is an 
open space where anyone staying in the hotel and golf club can walk around, Im satisfied 
that this is a space where there is public access, as oppose to a private apartment or villa 
and grounds.  
And so, for the reasons above, I am satisfied that AWP have fairly declined the claim. 
I can see that Mr E is also unhappy about the length of time AWP took to reply to their claim 
appeal. It was around one month, but I cant see that given the claim was declined, this 
caused any detriment to Mr E.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs E and Mr Es complaint about AWP P&C SA.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman