DRN-2704050
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Allianz Insurance Plc ("Petplan) unfairly charged her for two excesses 
following a claim on her pet insurance policy.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mrs Ds pet dog (L) is insured with Petplan.
Following a claim, L was required to undergo an operation to remove two lumps. One 
from Ls hindquarter, one from her leg.
Petplan considered each of these lumps to be separate conditions. The first classed 
as a Lipoma and the second as Fibroma. And so, it said an excess of £135 was 
required for treatment of each.
Mrs D disagreed, saying it was unfair to charge multiple excesses given L was able 
to have both lumps removed during the single operation.
Petplan said its vet was clear that these were two separate issues. It said Mrs Ds vet 
had also submitted separate invoices for each.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the two 
lumps were separate conditions  and classed as so under Petplans systems. 
Lipoma was recognised in its own right, and Fibroma was classed as a 
lump/mass/growth. And she said it was common when carrying out this type of 
operation to remove more than one issue at a time. 
Mrs D disagreed, saying Lipoma is a type of lump/mass/growth and therefore the 
two conditions should be considered as one issue, and Petplan should only charge 
her one excess.
So the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs D doesnt dispute that she should pay an excess, just that paying two would be 
unfair given both lumps were removed within a single operation.
Within Mrs Ds policy schedule, under a heading that says your excesses it says 
she will pay the first £135 of veterinary treatment for each unrelated illness or 
injury. So its clear to me that an excess will apply for treatment for each illness or 
injury that is unrelated.
There appears no dispute that the two lumps had separate causes (Lipoma and 
Fibroma respectively) and that these occurred in different parts of Ls body. This 
suggests to me that these were unrelated.
Ive been provided with invoices from Mrs Ds vet that do break down the costs of 
treatment for each of the conditions separately. This further suggests to me that they 
were not linked and were unrelated.
Ive taken on board Mrs Ds point that both conditions could be classed as 
lumps/mass/growths  but this simply doesnt change my mind. There are clearly 
different causes that can cause lumps, and in this case,  it seems the vets agree that 
these lumps had two unrelated and separate causes. 
So I think Petplan has acted fairly and reasonably in requesting two excesses for 
treatment of these two unrelated illnesses. It follows Im not asking it to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman