DRN-4259036
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) caused her 
a loss by virtue of the exposure to the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) within her 
portfolio. She also claims that she was promised regular portfolio benchmarking so that she 
could see how her portfolio was performing, but this hasnt happened to date. 
Mrs C is being represented by her husband, Mr C, who has made an identical complaint to 
this service. 
What happened
Mrs C transferred investments over to HLAM in July 2018 and invested in HLAMs 
Portfolio+ service in July 2018 through a Stocks & Shares ISA. The Portfolio+ offered 
HLAMs clients the ability to choose a portfolio based on their goals and risk level, and 
regularly check that they remained appropriate. Consumers could choose individual 
portfolios, which themselves were then invested in HLs Multi-Manager funds according to 
the portfolios stated aims, objectives and risk. 
Mrs C chose the Portfolio+ Balanced Growth portfolio. Mrs Cs investment in the portfolio 
was split as follows:
£13,744.29 in HL Multi-Manager Strategic Bond
£35,342.45 in HL Multi-Manager Special Situations
£29,452.04 in HL Multi-Manager Balanced Managed.
In July 2018 around 5.16% of the HL Multi-Manager Balanced Managed fund was invested 
in the Woodford Equity Income Fund (WEIF) and 5.74% of the HL Multi-Manager Special 
Situations fund. By May 2019 this had reduced to 4.44% and 4.86% respectively, and later 
to virtually no exposure at all. 
The factsheet of the portfolio Mrs C chose said:
It would invest 45% in the HL Multi-Manager Special Situations fund
37.5% in the HL Multi-Manager Balanced Managed fund
17.5% in the HL Multi-Manager Strategic Bond fund. 
It said that it tracked its performance against three Investment Association benchmarks, to 
reflect the benchmark of the underlying Multi-Manager funds. It gave an overview of the 
geographical split of its holdings, as well as the asset split which was 69.8% equities, 22.6% 
fixed income and the remainder in cash or other types of assets. 
It warned Mrs C that investments and any income from them can fall and rise in value, and 
neither income nor capital was guaranteed. It said that investment was recommended for no 
less than 5 years, and the portfolio may also invest in funds with exposure to overseas 
markets, including emerging markets, smaller companies and high yield bonds. In terms of 
its objectives, the portfolio was designed to hold a broad spread of investments, aiming for 
capital growth. It was intended to be a multi-asset portfolio holding a mixture of shares, 
bonds and total return funds. It said it also intended to be less volatile than more 
adventurous options. 
Following the suspension of the WEIF in 2019, Mr C made a number of complaints to HLAM 
about the portfolio he and his wife were invested in and the losses the WEIF had caused him 
and his wife. He claimed £1,647 in lost investment returns  this amounted to the total loss 
of both his and his wifes portfolios. 
HLAM looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaints but didnt agree they should be upheld. In 
summary, it said that Mr and Mrs C were execution only clients and made their own 
decisions to invest in the portfolios. It said that it carefully chose investments for its Wealth 
lists and Multi-Manager funds, and explained that Mr and Mrs C were not directly invested in 
the WEIF and their exposure to it, via the Portfolio+, was relatively small. 
Mr C didnt agree and referred his and his wifes complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said that the 
loss Mrs C was claiming was isolated, and did not take into account her portfolio overall. He 
said the WEIF was part of a mix of investments contained in the portfolio, and given that Mrs 
C was an execution only investor, it was her choice to invest in that portfolio. 
He said that the WEIF itself was in line with the relevant Multi-Manager funds objectives and 
aims, and in any event was never as illiquid as Mrs C had suggested in her complaint.
Mr C didnt agree and provided detailed comments on his and his wifes complaints. In 
summary he said:
The WEIF changed its investment strategy and it became riskier as a result;
HLAM was aware of the liquidity problems with the WEIF, and the change in the 
makeup of the fund. Mr C said his complaint was that HLAM failed to recognise this 
change, and failed to evaluate the impact and risk and then failed to act accordingly 
by divesting all or part of the WEIF holding. 
HLAM continued to recommend the fund in its Wealth 50 lists, and he gave a quote 
from that report from June 2019. 
HLAM did not follow its own regularly repeated guidance, was acutely aware of the 
funds significant underperformance, was aware since 2017 of the funds very poor 
liquidity and showed what he called poor governance and judgement. 
The figure of £901 was something HLAM had calculated when responding to his 
complaint, and said that this figure had been calculated specifically by HLAM to be 
the loss directly attributable to their failure to divest the illiquid WEIF. He said the 
combined loss of his and his wifes investment in the Portfolio+ was £1,647. 
The overall loss or gain on their holdings was not part of the complaint. He said the 
complaint focussed solely on HLAMs failure to heed their own standards and 
protocols as detailed in the six subpoints above. 
He acknowledged it was their choice to invest in the Portfolio+ Balanced Growth, but 
they were entitled to expect HLAM to be highly professional in their management of that Fund. He confirmed that neither he nor his wife had sold any of their holdings. 
He said that he couldnt judge the investigators comment about the level of illiquidity 
in the fund. However he said that the end result is that the WEIF failed 
spectacularly. He said that HLAM claimed to have all the relevant skills and 
expertise to manage their Portfolio+ Funds to the highest standards  but they 
failed to do so. He restated his claim for £1,647 was compensation.
He repeated his complaint about the lack of benchmarking to his portfolio, and asked 
that this service instruct HLAM to implement routine quarterly performance 
comparison, both percent and pound value, of our Fund against their chosen 
benchmark both historically and going forward.  
 There were some further communications between the investigator and Mr C, largely 
covering the points above. As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As these investments were taken our in Mr Cs and Mrs Cs individual names, we have set-
up two separate complaints. This decision is about Mrs Cs complaint  and as Ive 
mentioned above, she is being represented by Mr C. However, although Ive considered her 
individual circumstances, her complaint is in all material respects identical to her husbands. 
So it shouldnt come as a surprise that this decision wont differ very much from the one Ive 
issued on Mr Cs complaint. 
Id like to thank Mr C for the detailed comments he provided on Mrs Cs behalf in response to 
the investigators assessment. I have read all of his submissions, and fully understand his 
dissatisfaction and why he has felt the need to make his complaint. However, I hope that he 
doesnt take it as a discourtesy that Ive not addressed every point he has made in my 
decision. The purpose of my decision is to focus on the key issues in this complaint, and 
provide my reasons. 
In this case, there are two key issues  Mrs Cs complaint about the inclusion of the WEIF in 
the Multi-Manager funds his portfolio was invested in, and Mrs Cs belief that she is entitled 
to regular reports that outline her portfolios performance versus the benchmarks HLAM 
uses to assess performance. Ive dealt with each of these complaints in turn. 
The Portfolio+ Balanced Growth
I understand why Mr and Mrs C believe that HLAM owes them compensation for the loss in 
relation to the WEIF. However, Im not persuaded that would be fair and reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs C have made numerous points about what HLAM knew or didnt know about the 
WEIF, but Im not persuaded by their submissions. The key consideration when looking at 
Mrs Cs portfolio is whether or not the assets that it held were consistent with what she was 
told the Portfolio would be invested in  including the spread of assets, the individual split 
between funds and any other relevant information involving risk. 
In looking at the information Mrs C was given, its clear to me that the portfolio was invested 
in line with the factsheet and what she was told at the outset. The three multi-manager funds 
that the portfolio held were aligned with the split that was described in the factsheet  and Im satisfied each funds objectives, and holdings, were also consistent with the particular 
portfolio Mrs C had chosen. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C disagree, but Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to 
therefore look at the WEIF in complete isolation. Whilst theres no doubt the performance of 
the WEIF was disappointing, and its eventual suspension and ongoing liquidation was 
unfortunate, the reality is that these are performance considerations that could apply to 
almost any collective investment predominantly invested in equities. Im not persuaded it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold HLAM responsible for not foreseeing the suspension 
and subsequent liquidation of a fund it had no involvement in managing. 
I should also make clear, as HLAM has already done, that decisions to invest in the WEIF 
were made by HL Fund Managers, not by it. That said, Ive commented on this because I do 
think its relevant in explaining to Mrs C my approach to her complaint that the WEIF was 
inconsistent with the individual funds. 
When looking at investment losses arising from holdings in a portfolio, it isnt usually fair and 
reasonable to focus on the one holding thats suffered a loss, ignoring the remainder of the 
portfolio. This is especially true of a portfolio like Mrs Cs, which contained three different 
funds, which themselves held a multitude of different assets. Instead, its important that I 
take into account both the asset itself, as Ive done above, and the extent to which a portfolio 
was invested in it. The same is true when looking at whether the description of a particular 
fund is fair, clear and not misleading, compared to what it actually invests in. 
Of the three funds Mrs C held in her portfolio, only two of them had any exposure to the 
WEIF, and neither had more than 5% by 2019 when the WEIF was suspended. When Mrs C 
decided to invest in the portfolio, the exposure was only marginally larger. 
This is relevant because even if I thought that the WEIF itself was a riskier asset compared 
to what the fund said it would normally invest in, Id need to consider how it affected the fund 
overall. However, in terms of the makeup of the WEIF, Im not persuaded it was entirely 
inconsistent with, for example, the HL Multi-Manager Balanced fund. The factsheet for this 
fund says that:
The Fund may invest, either directly or indirectly via other collective investment schemes 
and exchange traded funds, in a range of equities and/or floating and fixed interest 
securities. The Fund may have exposure to smaller companies and overseas markets, as 
well as UK and overseas Government, Corporate or high yield bonds.
Under the risk reward profile of the fund, among other matters, it says the Fund may invest 
in smaller companies, which are more volatile and sometimes more difficult to trade than 
larger companies. 
In my view, the WEIF largely matched the above  to varying degrees which Im not 
persuaded I need to look into further here. I say this because given how little was actually 
invested in the WEIF, and the fact the WEIF broadly invested in the same types of assets, it 
wouldnt be fair and reasonable to conclude that the fund itself was therefore no longer 
consistent with what it said it would do by virtue of its investment in the WEIF. And it follows, 
therefore, that the Portfolio itself was unaffected by the funds small exposure to the WEIF. 
These same considerations apply to the other Multi-Manager fund with limited exposure to 
the WEIF. 
For all these reasons, Im therefore satisfied that the portfolio Mrs C invested in remained 
consistent with its stated aims, objectives and declared asset mix, despite the performance issues suffered by the WEIF. 
Benchmarking the portfolio
Im afraid that on this point, I have very little to add to what the investigator has already said. 
In 2019, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) set out the rules around the information that 
investments firms needed to provide its clients in the Conduct of Business rules (COBS). 
COBS 16A said:
COBS 16A.2  General client reporting and record keeping requirements
COBS 16A.2.1
(1) A firm must provide a client with adequate reports on the service provided in a 
durable medium. 
(2) The reports must include:
a. Periodic communications to the client, taking into account the type and 
the complexity of the financial instruments or insurance-based investment 
products involved and the nature of the service provided to the client; and
b. Where applicable, the costs associated with the transactions and services 
undertaken on behalf of the client.
These are the rules which HLAM needed to comply with when writing to Mr and Mrs C about 
their investments. Ive seen the investment reports which are sent to Mr and Mrs C monthly, 
and Im satisfied they comply with HLAMs regulatory obligations. 
Furthermore, Im not persuaded HLAM ever said theyd be sent ongoing comparisons with 
suitable benchmarks  they were merely told that this is how the portfolio, and the funds 
within it, would be assessed in terms of performance. That information is available to them 
online if they want it  although as HLAM has explained, it wont perfectly match their 
investment given the difference in dates. 
However, the investment report allows Mr and Mrs C to see, clearly, how their portfolios 
have performed, and in particular, how the funds their portfolios are invested in have 
performed. This allows them to gauge for themselves the returns in their portfolio, and 
whether the charges they pay HLAM are worth the performance of it. 
Whilst I can understand why Mr and Mrs C would like me to direct HLAM to do something 
different, it isnt my role to dictate to a firm how it should report to its clients  that is a 
regulatory matter. Im satisfied HLAM is complying with its reporting requirements, and Im 
unfortunately unable to uphold this aspect of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint either. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman