DRN-3631572
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society surrounding 
his attempts to transfer money to his Nationwide account from an overseas source.
What happened
Mr C attempted to transfer approximately £396,500 from an overseas bank account into his 
UK Nationwide account. When Mr C first chased Nationwide about the transfer, he was told 
that Nationwide hadnt received the money. 
Because of this, Mr C went back to his overseas bank who, after much back and forth 
between Mr C, Nationwide, and the overseas bank, showed him confirmation that the 
transfer had been sent and received by Nationwide. When Mr C presented this information 
to Nationwide, they explained that the money had been received by them, but that the 
transfer had been rejected because of incorrect information submitted by the overseas bank.
Mr C wasnt happy about what had happened, especially as when he tried to transfer the 
money in instalments of smaller amounts using the same information as before, Nationwide 
accepted the transfers. So, he raised a complaint.
Nationwide looked at Mr Cs complaint. They confirmed that the transfer had been rejected 
in the first instance because of incorrect information, but they apologised to Mr C and paid 
compensation of £125 to him for their incorrectly telling Mr C on several occasions that the 
sent money hadnt been received by them.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response Nationwide 
had already issued, including the payment of £125 compensation, already represented a fair 
and reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial institutions such as Nationwide have obligations to ensure the legitimacy of money 
being transferred into their customers accounts. And to meet these obligations, Nationwide 
undertake various checks regarding the information submitted to them surrounding a 
requested transfer. 
For the initial transfer in question, Im satisfied from the information provided to this service 
by both Mr C and Nationwide that the overseas address for Mr C, as given to Nationwide by 
the overseas bank, wasnt a valid address. Nationwide have confirmed that it was for this 
reason that initial transfer was rejected. And given Nationwides obligations here, as 
explained above, this doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
Nationwide have also confirmed that the level of checks they undertake increases for larger 
transfer amounts. This isnt unusual, and it explains why the attempt by Mr C to transfer the 
same amount in several smaller instalments using the same information was successful.
However, while I dont feel that Nationwide did act unfairly towards Mr C by rejecting the 
initial transfer request as they did, I do feel that Nationwide should have provided an 
accurate explanation as to what had happened to Mr C when he first asked them about it.
Nationwide have acknowledged this point and apologised for it, and theyve made a payment 
of £125 to Mr C as compensation for any trouble or upset he might have incurred as a result. 
Matters of compensation can be subjective, but given the circumstances here, the amount of 
£125 does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with what I would have 
instructed Nationwide to pay to Mr C, had they not already done so.
Im aware that Mr C feels that he should be awarded a higher amount of compensation here, 
both because he feels that Nationwide lied to him about the status of the initial transfer and 
because by having to transfer the amount in multiple instalments hes incurred multiple 
transfer fees from his overseas bank. 
I can appreciate Mr Cs position here. But I dont feel that Nationwides staff lied to Mr C  an 
act which would entail the deliberate provision of inaccurate information  but rather that the 
correct status of the attempted transfer wasnt accurately recognised by the staff who 
interacted with Mr C. As such, I feel that Nationwides error here was the result of a mistake 
rather than as the result of a deliberate act.
Additionally, while I accept that Mr C may have been able to process the transfer in one 
lump sum at a second attempt had Nationwide given him an accurate explanation as to why 
the first transfer failed, as previously explained I dont think Nationwide can be held 
accountable for that failure  or should be held solely accountable for the later 
consequences of it  given that an invalid address was supplied to them by the overseas 
bank. And as such it remains my position that the £125 compensation already paid by 
Nationwide to Mr C is a fair and reasonable amount.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr C was wanting, but it follows that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Nationwide to take any further action. I hope that Mr T will 
understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman