DRN-3082700
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax international currency 
exchange charges.
What happened
Mr M says he sent £13,000 from his Halifax account to his account in Thailand on 12 May 
2021. He says he was expecting to pay a charge of £9.50 but when the money arrived in 
Thailand, he realised it was £500 less than he sent. Mr M says he followed the online 
instructions and that the default setting was that the payment was sent in Thai baht. He says 
he didnt select that currency and says the process lacks transparency and is unfair. Mr M 
would like Halifax to refund the £500 he lost and says it ought to have been looking after his 
interests.
Halifax says Mr M carried out the transaction himself with no input from it. It says the only 
charge it made was the £9.50 but says the exchange rate difference is applied by the 
receiving bank. It also says its systems apply a default currency which is made clear by the 
flag of the country in question and that customers can change the currency if they wish.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr M hadnt been charged £500 by Halifax and the only fee was the £9.50 fee. The 
investigator also thought there was an exchange rate difference as is common with all 
international transfers and that it was made clear what the currency was, as well as the 
exchange rate.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says the default setting favours Halifax and in 
any event £500 is excessive. He says he thought he was sending the money in Sterling.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr M made the international transfer himself on 12 May 2021 without any 
advice or assistance from Halifax. And I have looked carefully at the online process he would 
have followed. I can see that the sending currency account has a prominent flag depicting 
the country of origin and a similar flag as well as the currency of the receiving country. I can 
also see that there is a clear dropdown menu next to the default currency choice which in 
this case was Thai baht. So, Im satisfied that Halifax made clear how the money would be 
sent-in Thai baht and what the exchange rate was. And that it was Mr Ms responsibility to 
check the payment before authorising it and change the currency if he wished.
I have looked at Halifaxs records and am satisfied that it charged Mr M £9.50 for the 
transaction and the £500 loss Mr M complains about was caused by the exchange rate 
difference. I also think that exchange rate and currency exchange was applied not by Halifax 
but by the receiving bank. I dont think it clear why Mr M suggests Halifax benefits from that.
I appreciate Mr M says Halifax also benefits from selecting the default currency. We are not 
Halifaxs regulator and so its not our role to tell it what its procedure should be on this issue. 
But I make clear to Mr M that many customers would want to send money in the default 
currency. I also dont think Mr M has made clear what currency his account in Thailand was 
in or how he could have avoided an exchange rate cost when all banks apply their own rates 
which do not match official published rates.
Overall, Im satisfied that the only fee Halifax charged was the £9.50 fee and that the 
exchange rate difference of £500 was applied by the receiving bank. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman