DRN-4387292
The complaint
W a company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC closed its account. W would like 
compensation. W is represented by its director Mr T.
What happened
W had a business account with Barclays. Mr T contacted Barclays to let them know he 
would be receiving an investment of 40 million USD.
Following this Barclays carried out a review. Following the review, they took the decision to 
close Ws account. They wrote to W on 22 March 2021 and gave it 60 days notice. The 
account closed on 25 May 2021.
As part of the review Mr T was asked some questions by staff at Barclays and provided 
Barclays with information about the nature of the investment into W.
Mr T has said he found the nature of the questioning inappropriate and racially motivated.
W complained to Barclays. They said they were entitled to close Ws account and had relied 
on and complied with the terms and conditions of the business account.
Mr T was dissatisfied with the response, so he complained to our service. One of the 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought Barclays were entitled to close the 
account and didnt have to give Mr T their reason. She didnt think the closure of Ws 
account was racially motivated and she didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly.
W represented by Mr T was unhappy with the view. Mr T said he thought the closure was 
racially motivated. He also said he wanted to know whether if he had not contacted the bank 
his account wouldnt have closed.
As there was no agreement the matter came to me, and I issued a provisional decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr T and 
Barclays have said before reaching my decision.
Account review
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Ws account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Barclays were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Ws account. 
I know Mr T informed Barclays that he was due to receive a large investment into the 
company. I can see that this was an unusually large amount for the company and would 
have prompted Barclays to request information from Mr T about the funds. Mr T has said he 
doesnt think Barclays would have reviewed the account had he not contacted them about 
the upcoming investment. However, I disagree, because of the ongoing obligations all 
financial businesses have its likely that Barclays would have reviewed the account and the 
payment once it was received. 
Mr T has mentioned he provided Barclays with some documents but wanted to provide more 
but Barclays didnt require the extra documents Mr T had. In addition, Barclays staff asked 
Mr T some information which he has suggested they already held about him. He thought the 
questioning was inappropriate and constituted racial discrimination. 
I understand from Barclays that the telephone conversation wasnt recorded so I havent 
been able to listen to this call.
Account closure
Following the account review Barclays gave W 60 days notice to close the account dated 22 
March 2021. The account was due to close in May 2021.
Mr T has said he is aware that a bank is entitled to close a customers account. He is 
concerned that the reason his account was closed was racially motivated. 
The adjudicator has mentioned its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless 
theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a 
customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account closed.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less depending on the circumstances. I can see that 
Barclays wrote to W on 22 March 2021 and let W know it was closing Ws account giving 60 
days notice. So, Im satisfied Barclays closed the account in line with the account terms. 
The crux of Ws complaint as expressed by Mr T is that he believes Ws account was closed 
for racially motivated reasons. I have looked at the information provided by Barclays to this 
service. Having reviewed this I am satisfied that Barclays didnt close Ws account for racially 
motivated reasons. 
Mr T has said that the questions he was asked by the Barclays staff member were 
inappropriate and constituted racial discrimination. While I appreciate this is his perspective, 
it is not my role to decide whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law  only 
the courts have the power to decide this.
However, I can look to see if the Barclays have treated Mr T fairly specifically in the 
conversation that he had with a member of staff as part of the know your customer (KYC) 
process.
It is unfortunate that no phone recording exists of the call between Mr T and the member of 
staff at Barclays. However, I have contacted Barclays and requested information about the types of questions Barclays would ask its customers whilst conducting a KYC review. 
I understand that there is no set of questions or templates that Barclays staff follow to carry 
out these reviews and that the nature of the questions are to try and ascertain the nature of 
the business.
Mr T has said during the conversation he was asked questions about his parents place of 
birth and passport. Barclays have said that the decision to terminate the account was not 
based on the questions asked during the call.  I have seen notes that suggest that the 
Barclays representative doesnt remember the questions they asked and there are no 
detailed notes of the questions that were asked in that conversation. 
I asked Barclays for their comments in relation to Mr Ts allegations. And for clarification 
regarding the questions they normally ask. And whether the questions asked in this case 
would have been in line with what was normally asked during a KYC review.
The reason for this is to give me an understanding of the type of questions that are generally 
asked and whether Barclays went beyond the necessary questions in its conversation with 
Mr T.
Barclays said the questions asked were part of a usual KYC process. Barclays have 
provided me with examples of the types of questions asked but this is not a script. They 
have said the aim of the conversation is to find out the nature of the business.
Barclays have also said that there is no evidence that their staff member acted unfairly 
towards Mr T. However, Mr T maintains that the questions asked of him were inappropriate. 
I appreciate that there is no outside record of the conversation, no recording and no notes. 
Mr T has said the questions about his parents nationality were asked. I would expect 
Barclays to keep good records of the conversations they had with customers especially in 
the absence of call recordings. This isnt the case here.  Because of the lack of evidence to 
the contrary I am inclined to believe what Mr T has said about the nature of the questions he 
was asked by Barclays staff. This leads me to conclude that Barclays didnt treat Mr T fairly 
when it asked certain questions of him during the KYC process.
However, I am not saying that Barclays were unfair when they closed Ws account. I have 
already mentioned above that Barclays acted fairly when it closed Ws account. Had 
Barclays asked the correct questions and not asked Mr T unfair questions I am satisfied that 
Barclays would have still closed Ws account. 
Impact on W
I am sure that the questions asked of Mr T would have caused him a great deal of distress, 
he has mentioned to this service how he felt and how frustrated he was with the reaction of 
Barclays when he raised the issue.
Although I am satisfied that Barclays did treat Mr T unfairly during the KYC process and 
particularly in the questions he was asked in the conversation with Barclays staff member. I 
am unable to award Mr T compensation for that distress.
The reason for this relates to our jurisdiction. Mr T has suffered distress but the complaint we 
are dealing with is in relation to the company W. W is the complainant. W is a limited 
company and as such cannot suffer distress in the way its treated by Barclays. And our 
service cant award compensation for distress experienced by Barclays customers directors 
or employees personally.However, I can make an award for any inconvenience W experienced as a result of 
Barclays error, such as Ws directors attention being diverted away from his regular 
business duties. So, to compensate W for that inconvenience I am minded to ask Barclays to 
pay W £200.
Reasons for closure 
Mr T has said that he is aware that banks need no reason to close an account.  Banks need 
reasons to close accounts but they do not have to share those reasons with customers and 
of course the reasons cannot be in breach of the law like the Equality Act 2010 for example.
Mr T is concerned that the account wouldnt have been closed had he not contacted 
Barclays. However, banks carry out reviews of accounts regularly in order to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations. It is likely that Barclays would have carried out a 
review once a payment of the size expected by W was paid into the account.
In summary I am satisfied that Barclays acted fairly when they closed Ws account and the 
reasons for doing so were fair and in line with their legal and regulatory obligations.
For the reasons mentioned above Im also satisfied on balance that Mr T was treated unfairly 
by Barclays when they asked questions as part of their KYC process. As the account is in 
the name of W and not Mr T and Mr T isnt the eligible complainant in this case, I cant award 
him compensation for his unfair treatment. In addition, I cant award W compensation for 
distress as W is not a natural person and as such cant suffer distress. I have awarded W 
compensation for the inconvenience caused for having its director diverted from his regular 
business duties.
Replies to my provisional decision
Barclays have accepted my provisional decision. They have said they didnt treat Mr T any 
differently to any other customer. And they were complying with their legal and regulatory 
obligations.
Mr T on behalf of W has made extensive comments. I would like to reassure him that I have 
thoroughly read and considered all his submissions. I may not comment on everything he 
has mentioned, I dont mean any disrespect in taking this approach. My outcome focuses on 
the relevant key issues, and on what I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of the case. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to 
be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered 
everything that Mr T on behalf of W and Barclays have said before reaching my final 
decision.
The crux of Mr Ts main submissions are as follows:
Mr T has argued that the decision made by Barclays to close Ws account has had 
grave implications for the financial liability of the company. Mr T has said he has 
been badly affected by the account closure and he is homeless and without funds for 
basic day to day expenses like food. W has lost backers and funding and at the time 
of writing Mr T has said the company is awaiting strike out from Companies House as 
a result of defaults arising from the closure of the account.Mr T has also said that he doesnt think a finding of Barclays acting unfairly is 
sufficient and he would like an acknowledgement that there was racial bias in 
Barclays behaviour.
The value of the compensation doesnt encourage Barclays to change
Mr T is unhappy that Barclays are unwilling to provide the recording of the 
conversation he had with the Barclays representative. Mr T believes the recording 
exists, but Barclays have refused to provide it.
Barclays should disclose details of their internal review process
The process followed by the Financial Ombudsman service is not comprehensive 
enough and plagued with inconsistencies.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to comments made by Barclays. I accept that Barclays have acknowledged my 
findings that they acted unfairly in their conversation with Mr T although I accept that 
Barclays have legal and regulatory obligations that entitle them to ask questions of their 
customers in relation to KYC and origin of funds. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr T has highlighted a number of concerns which Ill 
now address below.
Financial losses
Mr T has mentioned that the closure of the account has had grave implications for W and for 
Mr T himself. In relation to any losses Mr T may have suffered as explained in my provisional 
decision we are unable to look at his personal losses as the company is the eligible 
complainant and the customer of Barclays in this case. So, although I empathise with Mr Ts 
position, I am unable to consider any losses he has suffered.
In relation to losses of the company. Mr T hasnt provided this service with specific evidence 
of losses that can be directly attributed to the closure of the account with Barclays, and I am 
therefore not able to consider compensation for losses. Mr T is aware that in order to claim a 
financial loss this would need to be quantified and a direct causal link to the actions of 
Barclays. Mr T hasnt provided me with any evidence so Im unable to award compensation.
Mr T has said the offer of £200 is insulting and he feels a six-figure sum is more in line with 
the loss of earnings for a person in his position. I appreciate Mr T has suffered financially as 
a result of this situation, and I am sorry he finds himself homeless and destitute. However, 
as I have explained the compensation of £200 isnt awarded to Mr T for his losses but for W 
for its losses. This is because Mr T wasnt able to carry on doing business on behalf of W. 
Instead, he was engaged in conversations with Barclays over its call and the questions they 
asked. 
Call to BarclaysMr T has said he doesnt believe that the call between Barclays representative and himself 
isnt available. As Mr T is aware I have requested copies of the call. Barclays have said that 
the call wasnt recorded. I appreciate Mr T feels that this is suspicious, but I have seen no 
evidence of covert behaviour. In my provisional decision I was happy to accept that the call 
took place, and that Mr T was asked the questions he says he was asked. I have mentioned 
our service provides an informal resolution for disputes which is separate from the courts. A 
court can compel a witness to give evidence and provide for cross examination to test the 
evidence. Those options are not open to this service. Having said that I dont believe the 
existence or production of the recording would have any different impact on the outcome of 
his complaint. I say this because I have assumed the call took place and given the absence 
of other information from Barclays, the questions asked of Mr T were as Mr T has described.
Mr T has said the value of the compensation proposed doesnt encourage Barclays to refrain 
from acting unfairly towards other customers in the way it acted unfairly towards him. I 
understand what Mr T is saying. I appreciate Mr T would like me to award punitive damages 
against Barclays. Unfortunately, this isnt within the remit of what this service can award. As 
Ive mentioned we are an informal dispute resolution service and as such we take into 
account the individual case. We are not here to punish the institutions. I have explained in 
my provisional decision that W isnt able to suffer distress as it isnt a natural person. I have 
however recognised that Mr T as an officer of the company was taken away from pursuing 
company business because of the actions of Barclays. So, although I appreciate Mr T is 
upset by Barclays behaviour and would like them to be punished financially for it, this isnt 
something that I can do.
Mr T thinks Barclays should disclose details of their internal review. However, I disagree. 
This service isnt able to compel a business to disclose its internal processes. So, I cant 
agree with Mr T that Barclays should do this. Although I accept that a court may be able to 
compel a witness to disclose internal processes.
Mr T has said the finding of unfairness is not enough and he feels this service should make a 
finding of racial bias. He has said his claim is of racial discrimination and that is what it 
needs to be treated as. In my provisional decision I explained this service isnt able to make 
a finding that discrimination has taken place as a matter of law, only a court can do that. So, 
although I appreciate Mr T would like me to do so I cannot make a finding of discrimination. I 
did consider whether Barclays had acted unfairly, and I found that it had. If Mr T wishes for a 
finding of discrimination, then he may need to take his case to court.
Mr T has said the process this service has followed is not comprehensive enough and is 
plagued with inconsistencies. He has also referred to procedural errors. I appreciate for Mr T 
my provisional decision doesnt go far enough, however as Ive explained the service 
provides an alternative to court and our remit and powers are different.
Mr T has said the decision is ambiguous and the guidelines are discretionary. I appreciate 
Mr T may be concerned about the way we have reached the decision in this case. 
Specifically, Mr T is concerned the investigator didnt raise any of the points I later raised in 
my provisional decision. Firstly, an ombudsman doesnt rubber stamp the work on an 
investigator but carries out their own review and can request further information and 
evidence. This is what happened in this case. As the deciding ombudsman I disagreed with 
the original view which is why I issued a provisional decision explaining my reasons. I 
explained the customer of the bank was W a company and as I have already mentioned the 
company couldnt suffer distress as it wasnt a natural person. The rules that govern how we 
operate are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority dispute resolution rules DISP, which 
can be accessed online. I have considered whether there were procedural errors in the way 
this case was investigated or in the provisional findings. I dont see that there has been.Mr T has mentioned that recently in the media, a well-known person has received substantial 
compensation for having their account closed. Mr T thinks the reason he hasnt received 
substantial compensation is because of his race. Firstly, I cannot comment on another case. 
I can only look at the circumstances of this particular case and the evidence before me in 
order to determine the case in a fair and reasonable basis. Secondly as previously 
mentioned, the complainant in this case is W a company and not Mr T and it is only W that I 
can consider and not the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T because of Barclays 
actions. 
In summary I thank Mr T for his submissions which I have considered in full. I appreciate 
Mr T on behalf of W, will be disappointed by my final decision but having reviewed all the 
information received by both parties and their responses to my provisional decision I see no 
reason to depart from my original provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be partially upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are 
repeated above and form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I partially uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK 
Plc to pay W £200 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman