DRN-3786018
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Nationwide Building Society has previously mishandled his 
personal data, and this has impacted him when he has tried to obtain other financial 
products.
What happened
Mr R has raised several complaints about the impact Nationwide has had on his ability to 
obtain financial products due to its mishandling of his personal data. Overall, he is unhappy 
that Nationwide has declined two bank account applications and reported incorrect 
information on his credit file. Mr R has said this is discriminatory.
Mr R has also complained about his savings account rate and the fact Nationwide sent him 
too much information when he requested a DSAR from it.
Mr R feels this has caused serious anxiety and impacted his reputation.
Nationwide has said Mr Rs applications were unsuccessful due to an undisclosed address 
reported on his credit file which was established after completing the required credit checks. 
It has also said Mr R has previously held a FlexDirect account and therefore does not qualify 
for the promotional rate on the account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken into account Mr Rs very detailed submissions about what happened at the time. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think 
is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Secondly, I need to clarify that this service is unable to make findings on whether or not 
something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an 
informal free alternative to the Courts, but only a court of law can make a legal finding based 
on the definitions set out within the act. I know Mr R will be frustrated by this, but 
unfortunately because its outside this services jurisdiction I am unable to provide him with 
such an answer.
However, I can consider whether or not the business has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner, and in order to do that I will take a number of things, including the Equality Act 
2010, into consideration. 
Declined bank account applications
Mr R applied to open a FlexDirect account with Nationwide on two occasions, 28 August 
2021 and 16 February 2022. Unfortunately, both applications were declined. Mr R feels this 
is discriminatory. However, he hasnt elaborated further on that specific point. Nationwide 
has said the reason the applications were declined was due to an undisclosed address, 
which was discovered while it was carrying out the required credit checks.
I have considered the terms and conditions of the account. Having done so, I am satisfied 
that Nationwide is required to carry out credit checks and make a commercial decision in line 
with its risk criteria. I have also considered further evidence provided by Nationwide, 
including its system notes. I am satisfied the reason the application was declined was due to 
the undisclosed address. 
So, while Mr R remains unhappy with Nationwides decision, I am satisfied it has acted in 
line with the terms and conditions and therefore I cant say it has treated Mr R unfairly or 
differently to anyone else in the same circumstances.
Credit file 
Nationwide has said that while completing its credit checks it came across an undisclosed 
address on Mr Rs credit file. Mr R believes it was Nationwide who provided the address to 
credit reference agencies incorrectly. Again, he feels this is discriminatory and a data 
breach. As part of our investigation our investigator asked Mr R to provide his credit file.
I would like to point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
In the absence of Mr Rs credit file, I have relied on the evidence Nationwide has provided. I 
am satisfied the address it holds for Mr R is the same as the address we have on file. I can 
see it also holds another address for Mr R (which doesnt match the undisclosed address). 
Therefore, on balance I am satisfied that Nationwide didnt hold the undisclosed address 
and therefore didnt provide this to credit reference agencies. So, again, I cant say 
Nationwide acted unfairly or treated Mr R differently to any other customer in the same 
circumstances.
Savings account 
Mr R has also complained about his savings account rate. He believes this should be 5%. 
However, when considering the rewards and benefits of Nationwides FlexDirect account I 
can see it says:
 Introductory rates and offers:
5. You are only entitled to one introductory rate or offer (where applicable) for each 
Nationwide current account product at any time.
6. If you have previously held a Nationwide current account you are not entitled to the 
introductory rate or offer (where applicable) for that current account product under this 
agreement.
I have seen evidence to show that Mr R has previously held a FlexDirect account. So, due to 
this and in line with the terms, Mr R wouldnt qualify for the introductory rate offer. As such, I 
am satisfied Nationwide has acted fairly.
DSAR
Mr R has said that when he asked for a DSAR the level of information provided was 
excessive as it equated to over 2,500 pages. However, I have reviewed Mr Rs request. Having done so, I can see that he requested for all copies of his personal data. So, while I 
appreciate there was a lot of information provided to Mr R, given the fact he requested for all 
copies of his personal information, I think Nationwide actioned his request. If Nationwide 
hadnt sent everything, it wouldnt be fulfilling its obligation. Therefore, I cant say it did 
anything wrong. 
That said, I can see that originally when Mr R requested for a DSAR, Nationwide didnt 
action his request promptly.  However, they acknowledged this and offered £100 for the 
inconvenience it caused. I am pleased to see Nationwide rectified this error. And overall I am 
satisfied with how they put things right, the DSAR was actioned and Mr R was awarded with 
£100 for the inconvenience of it not being actioned right away, which is in line with what I 
would have suggested if it hadnt done so already.
I really do appreciate the impact this issue has had on Mr R. But in reaching my decision in 
this case, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and consider the case 
impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. Overall, I am satisfied Nationwide has 
treated Mr R fairly. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman