DRN-3518947
The complaint
Mr C complains that Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) declined a life 
assurance claim for his wife, Mrs C.  
In raising this complaint, Mr C has been helped by his daughter. But, for ease of refence, my 
decision will refer to Mr C only. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In November 2017 Mr and Mrs C set up a life assurance plan. It provided Mr and Mrs C with 
£5,000 of single life level cover over a 20-year term. And £100,000 of joint decreasing life 
cover over an 11-year term. 
Mrs C sadly died in October 2021. A claim was made under the plan but this was declined 
by LV. They said Mrs C mis-represented her health when she applied for cover by not 
disclosing that shed been advised to reduce her alcohol consumption on several occasions. 
And, had they known this, then they wouldnt have offered cover. So, they avoided the plan, 
declined the claim and retained the premiums.  
LV noted that the secondary cause of death recorded on the death certificate as alcohol liver 
disease was disputed. And they considered a doctors letter in support of this. But they 
explained that, even if alcohol liver disease wasnt listed as a cause of death, they wouldve 
still sought a GP report and become aware of Mrs Cs medical history which she didnt 
accurately disclose. 
Mr C complained but LVs position didnt change. They reiterated that Mrs C didnt complete 
the application correctly in respect of her medical history relating to alcohol consumption. LV 
considered this misrepresentation as deliberate and so were entitled to take the action they 
did.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think LV 
had acted unfairly. He thought Mrs C mispresented her health by not disclosing in the 
application that shed been advised to reduce her alcohol consumption. Having seen LVs 
underwriting criteria, he was satisfied that  had they known this  then they wouldnt have 
offered cover. Our investigator also considered LVs decision to classify the 
misrepresentation as deliberate was fair. So, he didnt think they needed to do anything 
further. Our investigator also explained that alcohol related liver disease being listed on the 
death certificate had no bearing on LVs claim decision. 
Mr C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Mr C that Ive given careful consideration to everything hes said in 
support of this complaint. I realise this will be a very difficult time for him and his family. But 
what I must consider here is whether LV acted fairly by avoiding the policy, refusing the 
claim and retaining the premiums. I know this isnt the outcome Mr C is hoping for but, for 
similar reasons to our investigator, I think they have. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer must show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
LV think Mrs C failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
failed to disclose shed been advised to reduce her alcohol consumption. 
Ive looked at the relevant question Mrs C was asked when applying:
Have you ever been advised to reduce or stop your alcohol consumption by a 
doctor or nurse or other medical professional?
Mrs C answered this No.
Based on Mrs Cs medical records and the GP report LV obtained, I dont think she 
answered the question correctly. This is because it shows the following:
Mrs C was diagnosed with alcohol abuse in 2001.
In July 2015, Mrs C met with a GP regarding an alcohol drinking problem with it 
recorded that she had been recently drinking much more than usual  going through 
around 350ml of rum daily for [the] last few months. Gets shakes and retching in 
mornings. And that there was a long discussion re alcohol use. Explained issues on 
health and mood. Needs to reduce thisoffered help re this but wants to do herself.
In June 2016, Mrs C met with a GP regarding a nondependent alcohol abuse review 
with it recorded that she had been drinking more  still wont quantify and that she 
was strongly advised re NECA  they can provide counselling too. But that Mrs C 
wants to try on her own again  reflected that this is what she said last time  says 
wont be as stressful next few months  discussed avoidance behaviour. 
In August 2016, Mrs C met with a GP for another review and its noted that she has 
cut right down on alcohol. 
I understand Mr C says his wife wasnt an alcoholic, nor did she have a drinking problem. 
And that, although she enjoyed a few drinks at the weekend, she didnt drink every day. Ive given this careful thought but Ive no reason to doubt the accuracy of the medical records. I 
also think its unlikely that there would be multiple entries regarding Mrs Cs alcohol 
consumption if  as Mr C suggests  she didnt visit her GP about it. Because of this, I 
consider Mrs Cs medical records to be persuasive here.
Given the records show Mrs C spoke with her GP on several occasions in the two or so 
years prior to applying  with clear instructions to reduce her alcohol consumption as well as 
advice to contact a substance misuse recovery charity (i.e. NECA)  I think this wouldve 
been memorable to her when applying. Im also satisfied LV asked Mrs C a clear and 
specific question about whether shed ever been advised to reduce or stop her alcohol 
consumption. And so, I think Mrs C ought to have answer this Yes. I therefore consider 
Mrs C failed to take reasonable care when answering the question. 
LV has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had this question been answered 
correctly, they wouldnt have offered cover to Mrs C. This means Im satisfied Mrs Cs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Ive therefore looked at the actions LV can take in 
accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Having given this careful thought, I think it was 
reasonable for LV to classify Mrs Cs misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. This is 
because, as Ive said, I think Mrs C ought to have known that shed previously been advised 
to reduce her alcohol consumption when she applied for cover. So, she wouldve known the 
answer she provided LV was untrue. I also consider that  given the question asked was 
both clear and specific  Mrs C wouldve known this information was relevant to LV. 
Particularly, as its common knowledge that alcohol consumption directly affects a persons 
health and so is a relevant risk factor for an insurer.
For these reasons, Im satisfied LV has acted fairly and reasonably  and in line with CIDRA 
 by classifying Mrs Cs qualifying misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Ive therefore 
looked at the actions LV can take in accordance with CIDRA and it says an insurer can avoid 
the policy, refuse the claim (as the policy effectively never existed) and keep the premiums.
Im therefore satisfied LV was entitled to avoid Mr and Mrs Cs plan in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  it never existed, LV does not have to deal with 
the claim following her death. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing LV to rely on it to avoid the plan produces the fair 
and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
On a final note, I understand alcohol liver disease being recorded on the death certificate 
has been disputed and challenged by Mr Cs family. At which point, and as our investigator 
explained, Id like to confirm that the cause of Mrs Cs death hasnt affected LVs claims 
decision here. But rather, the reason for the claim being declined is due to Mrs C 
misrepresentation when she applied for cover. 
I realise Mr C will be disappointed by this outcome but, for the above reasons, I think LV has 
acted fairly by avoiding the plan, refusing the claim and retaining the premiums. I therefore 
dont think they have to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman