DRN-4120212
The complaint
Miss M complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to prevent her losing money to a scam.
Miss M has used a representative to bring her complaint. But, for ease of reading, Ill mostly
just refer to Miss M herself.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In June 2022 Miss M was the victim of a
scam. She was contacted by someone pretending to be from a well-known online retailer.
She was told that her account had been hacked and that someone was making purchases.
Miss M was convinced by the scammer and followed the instructions she was provided.
Ultimately, she opened an account with Revolut being told that this was a process through
which she would be reimbursed. She then made two transfers from her existing bank
account with N to the newly set up Revolut account, each for £1,499. Miss M then made
two payments for corresponding amounts which left Revolut and presumably went to an
account controlled by the scammer.
Miss M was also instructed to open another account with Revolut. And this time she
transferred £1,499 and £270 into it from her account with N before again sending the same
amounts out to another different account. All of this activity took place on 25 June 2022.
Miss M also closed the initial Revolut account upon the instructions of the scammer.
Later the same day Miss M realised she may have been scammed and reported this to
Revolut. Revolut declined to offer any redress and the matter was later referred to our
service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In
summary he didnt think the activity on either account was so unusual that Revolut ought to
have done more. Miss M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her
complaint.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as we didnt
previously address Revoluts recovery efforts, Im issuing this provisional decision to give
everyone a further opportunity to comment. I know this will be disappointing for Miss M, so
Ill explain why.
Revolut should look out for unusual, suspicious or out of character transactions with a view
to protecting their customers from fraud and scams. In this case, each account was newly
opened meaning there was no prior activity to compare against. And I dont think the pattern
of payments made as a result of the scam was so suspicious or indicative of fraud that Id
have expected Revolut to have done more than they did before processing them.
I also dont think that Miss M opening more than one account with Revolut on the same day
was something that impacts the outcome of this complaint. Its a decision for Revolut as to
how many accounts they will let a customer hold. Generally, Id expect Revolut to monitor
each of their accounts on an individual basis. But even if I were to consider all the activity as
if it had taken place on one account, this wouldnt change my mind as to whether Revolut
ought to have done more.
Upon receipt of Miss Ms notification, Revolut promptly notified the beneficiary bank for one
of the recipients she had paid and unfortunately this didnt result in a recovery. I think
Revolut could have identified that Miss M had opened and closed another account (during
their online chat with her). But on balance, I dont think this has made a difference as its
most likely that funds would have similarly been moved on from the other recipient account
that shed paid too. It is a common feature of scams such as this that money is promptly
moved on. And as the scammers in this case moved money on from one account, this
means I think its most likely the funds from the second recipient account were similarly
moved on quickly in such a way that recovery wouldnt have been possible. So I dont think
Revolut are responsible for failures regarding their recovery efforts which impacted whether
anything could be returned.
Im sorry Miss M lost her money to a cruel scam. But as this isnt something I think Revolut
reasonably could or should have prevented, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can
require them to do more to resolve this complaint.
Revolut responded and said they had nothing further to add. Miss M didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman