DRN-1790924
complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken out in 
October 1998. Mr and Mrs H say Lloyds Bank PLC trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester 
(C&G) mis-sold them MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
C&G had to make it clear that the policy was optional and get Mr and Mrs Hs consent before 
adding the policy. Mr and Mrs H say they werent aware the MPPI was an optional product. 
As the mortgage and MPPI were arranged during a meeting I dont know what was 
discussed. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Hs comments alongside the information we have 
from the time of sale.
C&G has provided us with a copy of the MPPI application form. This includes Mr and Mrs 
Hs details and confirms the policy will cover Mr H only. This application is separate to the 
application completed for the mortgage and it has been signed by Mr and Mrs H. Based on 
what we know about how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected the conversations with the 
C&G advisor to reflect the details on this form. And if Mr and Mrs H werent sure about the 
cover I wouldve expected them to query it before signing and agreeing to the cover. C&G 
has also provided the mortgage offer and this includes details of the insurance Mr and Mrs H 
had agreed to. This is detailed in a section called Optional Insurance and the cost of the 
MPPI and extent of cover is set out.
So based on the evidence Ive been provided, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs H knew at 
the time that the MPPI was optional and they decided to take it. But I can understand why 
they might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
C&G recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
them. Although this was a joint mortgage the MPPI covered Mr H only. Looking at Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, I think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because:
 
2
Mr H was eligible for the MPPI.
 It doesnt seem Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI 
cover  like unusual working arrangements or known medical conditions.
 
Mr H says he wouldve received significant sick pay from his employer at the time. 
The MPPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr H was off work due to accident or 
sickness. This means Mr and Mrs H wouldve had peace of mind that their mortgage 
payment would be covered, and any employer benefits could be used to help cover 
every day expenses or other financial commitments. 
 
Mr H has also explained he wouldve received significant benefits if he was made 
redundant, and this wouldve exceeded 24 months. Hes also referred to the pay out 
he received when he was made redundant in 2000. I dont doubt that Mr H wouldve 
received a generous redundancy package from his employer. However, I still think 
the MPPI wouldve been of use. Mr H was the sole earner, and I think it would have 
been important to him for the mortgage repayments to be covered if he lost his job. 
Although he may have received redundancy pay for longer that the policy wouldve 
paid out, the MPPI wouldve still provided useful cover for a year, allowing Mr H to 
use his redundancy pay to help cover other costs. 
 
Mr and Mrs H were taking on a significant and long-term financial commitment, which 
was secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments 
couldve been serious for them. And I think having the security that their repayments 
wouldve been made if they were unable to work wouldve been important to them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as the 
policys premiums were paid monthly, they could have amended or cancelled the 
policy if it no longer met their needs.
 
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr and Mrs H about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including Mr Hs comments about the 
information C&G have relied on and that there isnt enough to show C&G checked to see the 
MPPI was suitable for him. I cant be sure of exactly what checks C&G carried out, and 
businesses arent required to keep information indefinitely. However, based on the 
information we do have it seems Mr Hs circumstances were considered and assessed 
before a recommendation was made. 
For the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs H, as they clearly feel strongly about their complaint. But I hope 
my decision clearly addresses their concerns.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 May 2020.Chandni Green
Ombudsman