DRN-3776595
The complaint
Miss K is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed her savings account and feels that her 
complaint was handled poorly.
What happened
On 16 September 2021, Barclays informed Miss K that theyd close her savings account on 
or just after 16 December 2021 as she hadnt used it in over a year and it had no money in it. 
They also told her that if shed like to continue using the account, she just needed to pay 
some money into it by 15 December 2021 and the account would be kept open.
Since Miss K didnt pay money into her savings account, Barclays closed it on 17 December 
2021 as per their letter. Miss K complained to Barclays in July 2022 when she noticed her 
account had been closed. She said that shed only then seen the letter Barclays had sent to 
her in September 2021.
Miss K felt Barclays were negligent and irresponsible in closing her account as she required 
it for investment purposes. She asked Barclays to reimburse her financial loss and 
compensate her for the inconvenience caused.
Barclays explained they hadnt made an error in closing Miss Ks account, as they wrote to 
her in September 2021. Miss K felt Barclays shouldve sent her a reminder before the 
account was closed, but they explained theyd followed their process correctly. 
 
Miss K referred her complaint to our service. In summary, she explained the letter was 
amongst other junk mail and statements and she didnt see it at the time as it didnt stand 
out. She said Barclays didnt send her any warning letters, phone calls or account closure 
letters. She explained her complaint wasnt taken seriously and was dealt with 
unprofessionally.
Our investigator said that Barclays had closed the account in line with the terms and 
conditions giving Miss K more than two months notice. Miss K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K has provided detailed submissions regarding her complaint. I want to assure her that 
Ive read and considered everything shes said. But, I dont intend to respond to each point 
individually or possibly in the level of detail shed like.
Instead, Ive only focussed on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its 
not because I havent taken it on board or thought about it, but simply because I dont think I 
need to comment on it to reach what I think is the right outcome. This isnt meant as a 
discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
The terms and conditions for personal customers says:
If you havent used your account for a long time, we may close it. Well give you two 
months written notice if we plan to do this, and explain to you what you can do to 
keep it open. If theres any money in your account, well tell you how to reclaim it.
Ive looked at the statement for Miss Ks savings account and it shows the last time it was 
used was on 10 September 2020. Meaning, Barclays were entitled to decide to close Miss 
Ks savings account as she hadnt used it in over a year. 
Miss Ks preferred method of contact is online. All correspondence relating to her accounts 
are uploaded on her Barclays Cloud It which is a secure document storage system. And 
Miss K is sent an automatic notification to her email address when a new letter arrives in her 
Barclays Cloud It.
Ive seen evidence to show that Barclays uploaded their letter of 16 September 2021 to Miss 
Ks Barclays Cloud It. The email address Barclays hold on file for Miss K appears to be 
correct as its the same email address she used to raise her complaint. Barclays have also 
provided us with a template notification email that was sent. 
Miss K has confirmed shes received their letter albeit she only noticed it several months 
later when she wanted to use the account to make an investment. So, on balance, Im 
satisfied Barclays sent an automatic notification to Miss K when the letter of 16 September 
2021 was uploaded to her Barclays Cloud It.
Barclays gave Miss K more than two months written notice of their intention to close her 
account. They also told her what she could do to keep it open. So, I cant fairly agree that 
Barclays have done anything wrong here. Im satisfied theyve acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of Miss Ks account.
Miss K has explained that the letter didnt stand out amongst other junk mail and statements. 
But Barclays have fulfilled their responsibility by sending Miss K the letter with their 
intentions to close her account and the action she should take if she wanted to keep it open. 
Barclays cant reasonably be blamed for the situation if Miss K didnt notice the letter.
While I agree itd be helpful for Barclays to send a reminder nearer to the account closure 
date, they arent obliged to do so under the terms and conditions. Im pleased to see 
Barclays have passed this feedback internally for consideration to improve their customer 
service.
I dont underestimate how strongly Miss K feels about her complaint, but since Ive found 
that Barclays havent done anything wrong in closing her savings account, it follows they 
arent liable for any financial loss or distress and inconvenience that she says shes suffered 
as a result. 
In any event, Barclays arent responsible to reimburse Miss K for any losses that arent 
foreseeable, and the losses Miss K says shes incurred in this case arent reasonably 
foreseeable.
I appreciate Miss K wanted Barclays to deal with her complaint of 24 July 2022 with the 
highest urgency and priority. I can see Barclays sent Miss K an acknowledgement, discussed her concerns over the phone and then gave their final response letter within a 
week, on 31 July 2022. 
I dont doubt that it wouldve been frustrating and inconvenient for Miss K to receive a call on 
a Saturday and outside the timeframe she requested. But I think she couldve minimised the 
impact on herself, by either not taking the call or asked Barclays to contact her at another 
time.
While Barclays didnt agree theyd made a bank error or provide any compensation, they 
apologised for any upset and inconvenience Miss K was caused. They also noted Miss Ks 
comments about the process and forwarded feedback to their relevant department.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays addressed Miss Ks concerns fairly and responded to her 
complaint within the timescales wed expect.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman