DRN-3870222
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited trading 
as Sun Life Financial of Canada increased the premiums on their whole of life policy.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr and Mrs H received a policy review letter from Sun Life saying they would 
need to increase the premiums by around 60% in order to keep the same sum assured.
Mr and Mrs H complained to Sun Life saying they had been told in 2010 that there wouldnt 
be any changes to their policy or premiums. Sun Life said that regular reviews were part of 
the terms and conditions of the policy and that they had previously been conducted in 2011 
and 2016. Those reviews passed and there was no need for any changes however the 2021 
review didnt pass and therefore an increase in premiums was required. 
Sun Life said there had previously been a change to the policy where Mr and Mrs H had 
opted out of annual indexation increases, but this didnt mean that the usual periodic reviews 
wouldnt happen. Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators looked into things and thought it was clear that the agreement in 
2010 was only to stop the annual indexation increases so the policy was still subject to 
regular reviews. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have provided a lot of information about their complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly they feel about what happened. I want to assure Mr and Mrs H that Ive read 
and considered everything that has been provided. Ive summarised some things which 
reflects the informal nature of our service and concentrated on what I think are the most 
important points. 
I think its important to say that this complaint was subject to a previous decision from one of 
our Ombudsman. They said I am not looking at the substantive merits of this complaint .. I 
am reviewing it to determine if there he been compliance with the time limits ..  This is 
important because I have reviewed the same information but in a different light. The previous 
decision was about whether we can consider the complaint under our rules, and that 
Ombudsman decided we could. This decision is about the circumstances and merits of what 
happened. These are two very different things.
The policy held by Mr and Mrs H had an optional benefit of annual indexation increases. In 
2010 Mr and Mrs H telephoned Sun Life to stop this because the rate of increase meant they 
wouldnt be able to afford the premiums when they retired. Sun Life agreed to stop the 
optional increases and wrote with confirmation saying: I confirm that your annual increase 
has been deleted and premiums will remain level in future years unless you instruct us 
otherwise 
Due to the passage of time I dont have a copy of that telephone call. However it seems 
most likely that the call was just about the optional annual increases and not the operation of 
the policy overall. So the letter needs to be taken in the context of what was discussed. Ive 
not seen any evidence that in 2010 there was a discussion about the regular ongoing policy 
reviews. So Im satisfied the letter only addresses the annual increase which was the topic 
of the telephone call.
A year later in April 2011 Sun Life wrote saying there had been a review of the policy. This 
letter said that based on current assumptions no changes were needed as the premium 
would maintain the sum assured for at least the next five years. The letter said:   because 
no one can be sure how things will turn out, we will continue to review your cover regularly. 
In 2016 the policy was reviewed again and had again passed based on current assumptions. 
The letter to Mr and Mrs H said:    as you get older, the cost of providing your benefits 
increases. The premium is therefore likely to continue to increase in the future and by a 
significant amount. 
At the 2021 review the policy didnt pass and changes were required. Mr and Mrs H say they 
were surprised by the increase in premiums because of the letter they had received in 2010. 
Mr and Mrs H feel the 2010 letter was very clear that there would be no further increases in 
premium and it didnt explain the possibility of any increases. I agree the 2010 letter doesnt 
say anything about further regular reviews and any possible premium increases. And I 
wouldnt expect it to. As Ive explained above the 2010 letter was solely in relation to the 
removal of the optional annual indexation increase and didnt affect how the policy worked 
overall.   
When dealing with our Investigator Mr and Mrs H said: The term review of the policy did not 
mean anything to me as with previous reviews there was never any changes. And I agree 
that after the 2010 letter the reviews in 2011 and 2016 didnt require any changes. But those 
letters did make clear that other reviews would take place and that an increase in premiums 
was likely. 
Ive also taken into consideration that regular reviews, in this case every five years, are a 
fundamental part of any whole of life policy. Its been some 30 years since the policy was 
sold so I havent seen any documents from the time of the sale. However Im persuaded that 
the documents from the time wouldve most likely explained the review process as it applies 
to all policies of this type. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show specifically that 
Sun Life agreed to stop the periodic reviews. And I think the letters I have seen make clear 
that reviews will continue to take place and that premium increases are likely.   
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied that Sun Life acted fairly 
and reasonably when dealing with Mr and Mrs H. But thats not to say that Mr and Mrs H 
havent been affected by what happened; I think they have. But this isnt something I can 
fairly hold Sun Life accountable for so I wont be asking them to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Warren WilsonOmbudsman