DRN-3775664
The complaint
Mr T complains about U K Insurance Limited (UKI) under the home emergency section of his 
home insurance policy, about delays in responding to a breakdown of his boiler.
References to UKI include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under the 
policy.
What happened
In December 2021 an issue arose with Mr Ts boiler, which an engineer was able to resolve 
the same day. However, the issue happened again the following month and the boiler 
stopped working. He contacted UKI, who said an engineer would call the following day 
between 9am and 5pm. The engineer arrived at 10.30pm, inspected the boiler and said a 
gas valve needed to be replaced. However, it took four days for UKI to authorise the repair. 
A second engineer appointment to replace the valve was arranged for four days after the 
first visit, again between 9am and 5pm. The engineer arrived at 8pm and said the problem 
wasnt with the gas valve (although he still replaced it). However, the boiler still wouldnt 
work. The engineer said the problem was blocked airways and the boiler would need a full 
stripped-down service. 
However, UKI wouldnt carry this out under the policy and wouldnt carry out any further work 
under the policy. Mr T decided to replace the boiler, as he considered it wouldnt be cost-
effective for him to pay to repair a ten year old boiler. However, this meant he was without a 
working boiler (and so without heating or hot water) for a total of 20 days.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr T complained to UKI. In their final response, they 
upheld the complaint based on the lack of updates provided to Mr T, delays in carrying out 
work on the boiler and the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr T (including the time he 
was without heating or hot water). In recognition, UKI offered £200 in compensation. 
Mr T then complained to this service. The main point of his complaint was that he (and his 
family) were without heating or hot water for 20 days. He didnt agree that the stripped-down 
service wasnt covered by the policy and that hed previously had his boiler serviced in 
December 2021, by another home emergency cover provider (B). So, hed complied with the 
requirement for the boiler to be serviced in accordance with the manufacturers specification. 
He wanted compensation for the inconvenience this had caused (£1,000) and a contribution 
from UKI of half the cost of his new boiler (£1,650). He also wanted compensating for the 
additional electricity used to run electric heaters (£200).
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding UKI didnt need to do 
anything more. She noted UKI had provided evidence showing debris in part of the 
boiler (the heat exchanger) that indicated the boiler hadnt been serviced correctly. 
And that UKI had fairly applied a policy exclusion for the boiler not having been 
maintained in accordance with the manufacturers instructions. 
Mr T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. He said hed previously contacted B and been told that cleaning 
the heat exchanger wasnt part of the standard boiler service and only be carried out 
if an instrument reading detected an anomaly. And hed met the requirement for 
servicing the boiler by engaging B to carry out the service. He also provided further 
information on the servicing requirements for his boiler and the service carried out by 
B. Therefore, he thought UKI had unfairly applied the exclusion to decline to carry out 
work on the boiler. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI has acted fairly towards Mr T.
Id first note that the complaint here is about UKIs response under the home emergency 
section of the policy. This is one section of Mr Ts home insurance policy. UKI are the insurer 
for all sections of the policy, including the home emergency section.
There are two issues in Mr Ts complaint. First, that UKI unfairly declined his claim, in that 
they refused to carry out any further work on the boiler when it broke down. Mr T maintains 
hed complied with the requirement to have the boiler serviced (by another home emergency 
cover provider) in December 2021. So, he believes UKI shouldnt have declined to carry out 
further work on his boiler. UKI say the evidence from their own engineer visits and reports is 
that the boiler wasnt properly serviced, as evidenced by the presence of debris in the heat 
exchanger. As such, they fairly applied the policy exclusion for the boiler not having been 
serviced in accordance with the manufacturers instructions.
In considering this issue, Ive noted the wording of the policy exclusion referred to by UKI. 
Under the heading Losses not covered that only apply to Section 5 Home Emergency it 
states:
We wont pay for:
any system or appliance which has not been installed, maintained or repaired 
in line with the manufacturers instructions
any work, including power flushing, due to water scale deposits or sludge 
caused by corrosion
I think this makes it clear that the boiler would need to have been maintained (serviced) in 
line with the manufacturers instructions. So, the issue is whether the boiler had been 
serviced in line with the manufacturers instructions. What isnt in doubt is that B carried out 
a service in December 2021, and Ive seen their confirmation that this happened (although 
they havent provided detail to support this (such as engineer job sheets and/or reports). 
Ive considered carefully all the information provided by Mr T and by UKI, including in respect 
of the service carried out by B in December 2021. This includes the information and 
evidence provided by Mr T and by B, as well as UKIs response. In doing so, I think its 
important to make clear my role is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr T. It isnt to decide whether B met their obligations to Mr T in the service of his 
boiler in December 2021. 
And in deciding whether UKI have acted fairly towards Mr T (in applying the exclusion) Ive 
followed the principle that where an insurer applies an exclusion, the onus is on them to 
show that it applies  it isnt for the consumer to show it doesnt apply.Having adopted this approach, Im persuaded on balance by the evidence and views 
presented by UKI, and Ive concluded theyve acted fairly in applying the exclusion to decline 
to carry out further work on the boiler. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by UKI from their engineer visit in December 2021, 
when the boiler stopped working (shortly after Bs service). It indicates issues with the boiler, 
as well as the need to inspect and clean the heat exchanger, which would have needed a 
follow up visit (from B in the first instance). Ive also seen a photograph of the heat 
exchanger taken during the UKI engineer visit showing debris (and a photograph taken after 
the boiler broke down in January 2022, that also shows debris). UKI say the issues identified 
indicate the service wasnt carried out to the expected level. I agree, and I think it supports 
UKIs applying the exclusion in the policy.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered the second issue in Mr Ts complaint, that of 
compensation for what happened. UUKI awarded £200 compensation for the lack of updates 
provided to Mr T, delays in carrying out work on the boiler and the distress and 
inconvenience (including the time he was without heating or hot water). In recognition, UKI 
offered £200 in compensation. Mr T asked for £1,000 compensation for the inconvenience, 
as well as compensating for the additional electricity used to run electric heaters (£200). 
Ive considered both views carefully, in the circumstances of the case, but on balance I think 
UKIs award is fair and reasonable. I say this because, having concluded UKI acted fairly in 
applying the exclusion to decline to carry out further work on the boiler then I dont think they 
can be held responsible for the period before Mr T had the boiler replaced (rather than pay to 
have it repaired). But I agree there were delays and inconvenience while UKI decided to 
authorise the work that was carried out. I think £200 for that period is fair and reasonable
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman