DRN-2891586
The complaint
Mrs Js complaint is about a mortgage she used to have with Mortgage Express (MX). The 
mortgage  and the property it was secured on  were in the joint names of Mrs J and her 
then husband, Mr A.
Mrs J is unhappy that MX was been granted a charging order over the property she later 
owned jointly with her second husband, Mr J, to secure a judgement debt in favour of MX for 
a mortgage shortfall following repossession of the property she used to own with Mr A.
Mrs J is also unhappy that MX has only pursued her for the outstanding debt, and not Mr A.
What happened
In 1988 Mrs J and Mr A took out a mortgage with MX on their home. The property was 
repossessed in 1990 and after it was sold there was a shortfall debt owed to MX. 
On 12 April 2006 the court gave judgement to MX for £65,861.05. 
On 19 September 2006 MX was granted a final charging order over the property in which 
Mrs J was then living to secure the judgement debt.
Mrs J says MX then forced her to sell the property. On 25 September 2009 it was sold. Mrs J 
agreed a reduced settlement with MX of approximately £45,000, and Mrs J was taken off the 
mortgage account in relation to the balance of the shortfall debt.
In September 2020 Mrs J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service that shed been 
treated unfairly by MX. Mrs J didnt think it was right that MX had only pursued her for the 
outstanding debt, rather than Mr A.
Initially MX didnt consent to us looking at the complaint, saying it was out of time. But one of 
my ombudsman colleagues was satisfied there were exceptional circumstances to explain 
the delay, and MX agreed we could look at the complaint.
An investigator looked at what had happened. He explained to Mrs J that we couldnt look at 
anything relating to the charging order, as that was a matter for the court. He also clarified 
that, without Mr As consent, we werent able to look at any dealings MX might have had with 
him. But he was satisfied that liability for the shortfall debt was joint and several, and so MX 
had done nothing wrong in pursuing Mrs J for the outstanding balance on the account.
Mrs J asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken careful note of everything Mrs J has told us. Because our decisions are published, 
I will not repeat any of the details here, as I must take care not to include any information 
that might identify Mrs J.
I can see that Mrs J has had a very traumatic time, and I agree with my ombudsman 
colleague that, despite the passage of time, there are exceptional circumstances that allow 
us to consider this complaint. But Im afraid I have disappointing news for Mrs J; even 
though were not applying the time limits in our rules, much of what she has complained 
about isnt something we can look at for other reasons. And in relation to the one issue we 
can consider, I dont think MX has done anything wrong. 
We can only look at complaints about activities that are covered by our rules, and this has 
implications in relation to the concerns Mrs J has raised with us. 
A possession order was granted in favour of MX in 1990, after Mrs J and Mr A fell into 
financial difficulty. I dont have any power to look into this, as I cant interfere with an order 
made by a court.
The court also granted judgement in favour of MX in 2006 for the shortfall debt of over 
£65,000, which was secured by a charging order over the property in which Mrs J (and Mr J) 
were living. So although Ive taken account of everything Mrs J has said about how unfairly 
she feels MX treated her in pursuing the shortfall debt, a court decided that she owed the 
money, and I dont have any power to interfere with that. 
Furthermore, action taken by a lender to recover a judgment debt by way of a charging order 
and an order for sale isnt something thats covered under our rules. This is because of a 
legal doctrine called the merger principle. Basically, once the court granted judgement to 
MX, recovery of the debt could only be enforced via the courts, which takes it outside the 
scope of the Financial Ombudsman Service. As a result, I have no legal power to consider a 
complaint about MXs actions in relation to the charging order, the application for an order for 
sale or the settlement agreement between Mrs J and MX. Thats because none of those 
things are activities that are covered under our rules.
I can look at whether or not MX treated Mrs J fairly  before the court judgment was granted 
against her  in relation to recovery of the debt. Mrs J says that she doesnt think its fair that 
MX has only gone after her in relation to this joint mortgage and has taken no action 
against Mr A. Liability for the mortgage was joint and several  which means that both Mrs J 
and Mr A were equally liable for the whole of the mortgage debt, not half each. 
I dont have Mr As consent to access his data, so I dont know  and cant ask  what steps, 
if any, MX took to recover the debt from him before it obtained judgement for the shortfall 
debt. But because of the joint and several nature of the mortgage contract, as unfair as this 
may seem to Mrs J, MX didnt do anything wrong in looking to her for payment.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs J was hoping for, and I am truly sorry if my decision adds 
to her distress. But, for the reasons given above, I cant look at any actions of MX in relation 
to the charging order, as this is a matter for the courts. And, because this was a joint 
mortgage, MX was allowed to seek recovery of the mortgage debt from Mrs J alone.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman