DRN-4007705
The complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wont consider paying her critical 
illness claim under her personal protection policy. Aviva says Miss Ms policy expressly 
excludes critical illness benefit, so no claim can be pursued.
What happened
Miss M applied for an Aviva Life and Critical Illness Insurance policy. The policy was 
sought through a third party adviser at Miss Ms bank. She applied for level term life and 
critical illness cover over 22 years, with sum assured of £100,000.  
The application for the policy was made on 1 October 2014. At that time, an illustration was 
produced for the life and critical illness cover, with an assumed monthly premium of £37.48.
However, after receiving the application and undertaking underwriting, Aviva confirmed it 
couldnt offer Miss M any cover for critical illness benefit. It was able to offer life assurance 
with terminal illness benefit, for a reduced premium of £13.60.
In a letter of 3 November 2014, Aviva told Miss M of its offer, and gave her until 3 March 
2015 to confirm to Aviva if she wanted to go ahead with the policy. 
On 1 February 2015, Aviva wrote to Miss M again, asking if she wanted to accept the offer of 
insurance. Miss M then called Aviva on 27 February 2015 to confirm her acceptance. The 
policy began that same day, with the 22-year term running to 27 February 2037.    
In early 2022, Miss M was sadly diagnosed with a type of cancer. She then contacted Aviva 
using its online communications portal to pursue a claim for critical illness benefit. Aviva 
instead looked at whether Miss M had a terminal illness benefit claim  so it sought evidence 
from Miss Ms treating consultant, having gained her written consent. 
On 1 September 2022, Aviva told Miss M that there was no claim payable for terminal illness 
benefit, as her consultant had stated that she was undergoing treatment which had a 
curative intent. 
It also explained that she couldnt make a critical illness claim  because her policy only 
offered life cover and terminal illness benefit. That was because critical illness benefit had 
been excluded at the time of the application in 2014.  
Miss M complained. She said the first time she had learned that she didnt have any critical 
illness benefit was during the call of 1 September 2022. She said Avivas actions caused her 
considerable upset, worry and anxiety; this was at a time where she was already under 
financial stress due to her inability to work whilst undergoing cancer treatment.  
Miss M said she wanted Aviva to overturn its decision and consider her claim. She had taken 
out insurance for exactly the circumstances she now found herself in, and she does not 
understand why she wouldnt have been insured.  
In October 2022, Aviva refused the complaint. It reiterated the events of 2014 and 2015 to 
Miss M. It explained that once it received her application, the answers Miss M gave led it to 
requiring further medical evidence. To understand her medical history, it wrote to Miss Ms 
GP for copies of her medical records.  
On receipt of the records, Avivas underwriters were not able to offer her insurance on 
standard terms; this meant it could not any critical illness cover and it also needed to 
charge a higher premium for Miss Ms life cover. For that reason, it sent out amended 
acceptance terms on 3 November 2014. And those terms said that critical illness benefit was 
not included under the policy.  
Though it appreciated that the name of the policy type was Life and Critical Illness 
Insurance but the policy issued to Miss M did not include any critical illness benefit. It said it 
would bear Miss Ms comments in mind when setting out the name of its cover to future 
customers, but it could not amend the name of her policy retrospectively.  
Miss M remained unhappy, and referred her complaint to this service.  
An investigator from this service considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should 
succeed. He said he was satisfied that the policy documents issued to Miss M by Aviva 
confirmed that critical illness benefit was excluded from her policy. So, it had fairly declined 
her claim and rejected the complaint, since no critical illness claim could be made.  
Miss M didnt accept the investigators view. She made further comments, noting:
she applied for both life and critical illness insurance cover;
when she received her documents, the heading still stated both life and critical illness 
cover;
so, up until the time she came to make a claim, she was under the impression she 
was insured against both prospects;
if Aviva had expressly informed her at the time, she would have tried to seek other 
cover;
she had not been informed of a medical underwriting failure until she made her claim;
she was not informed as to why her application had been declined;
for years she has paid for cover that she believed gave her the insurance she 
needed  else she wouldnt have pursued a claim now.  
Aviva didnt make any further comments. Since Miss M required the complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman, it has now been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn of Miss Ms diagnosis, and I send her my best wishes. Though I do 
not wish to make things harder for her, I am not going to uphold her complaint. I realise that 
wont be the answer she has hoped for, but I will give an explanation of my reasons below.  
As an aside, I note Miss M has queried the underwriting decision of October 2014. For the 
reasons Ill go on to explain, I believe Aviva clearly set out that it could not offer critical 
illness cover to Miss M. So, I havent looked at its decision, because no claim could have 
been made to Aviva now. However, if Miss M remains unhappy about how Aviva used her 
medical information for its underwriting process, shell need to liaise with Aviva directly. The cover Miss M sought is indeed entitled Life and Critical Illness Insurance. This is the 
title that Aviva chose for its insurance offering. It is a protection policy, where in receipt of 
premium payments for an agreed term, a lump sum will be paid to the policyholder (or their 
estate or beneficiary) upon evidence of a valid claim.  
To explain further, policies such as these are long-term insurance products, often referred to 
as term assurance  because they run for a defined period of years or term, chosen from 
the outset. They are usually taken out to either provide financial protection alongside a large 
debt, such as a mortgage, or for the event of protection for a policyholders dependants. 
Mortgage term assurance cover for repayment mortgages will often be set up on a 
decreasing term basis, meaning the sum assured reduces proportionately each month or 
year, broadly in line with the repayments on a capital repayment mortgage. Alternatively, 
level term policies can be chosen for interest only mortgages, where the existing loan does 
not reduce with repayments made. 
The type of policy Miss M sought was level term, meaning the sum assured remained the 
same throughout, rather than reducing in value over the life of the policy. For this reason, 
these types of policies are usually more expensive than decreasing term ones.  
Similarly, life cover is cheaper than critical illness cover, because of the nature of insuring 
against different serious (but statistically more likely) incidences versus the event that a 
policyholder may pass away during the agreed policy term. Both require underwriting by an 
insurer  that entails looking at all of the medical disclosures an applicant has made, and 
determining the risk of a person being insured against the prospect that they either pass 
away or suffer from one of the list of serious illnesses or events, as defined in the policy. 
When Miss M sought her cover via her bank, the initial quoted premium was £37.48. Miss M 
was sent the letter dated 1 October 2014, which confirmed her application and how Aviva 
was still assessing her application. Next to the premium, it said:
This premium might be subject to change during underwriting.
The offer letter of 3 November 2014 told Miss M that this document confirms the cover and 
premiums we can offer you. Whilst it was able to insure her for the £100,000 level sum 
assured and 22-year term she had asked for, the letter said, your premiums have changed 
since you applied. The premium had reduced to £13.60 per month.  
Underneath this premium amendment, Aviva set out:
Options excluded_________________________________
The following options have been excluded from your policy.
Critical Illness Insurance
oFor [Miss M]
Once the offer was accepted by Miss M, Aviva sent her a policy information pack on 27 
February 2015. In that pack, it said:
Were pleased to confirm weve set up your cover and weve enclosed your policy 
information pack. Please keep this and any information weve already sent you, in a 
safe place.
Whats enclosedHeres what else youll find inside the envelope.   
-Policy schedule - shows the details of your cover.
And the policy schedule confirms:
Cover details
Product name  Life and Critical Illness Insurance
Needs basis  Mortgage Protection
Cover type - Level
Critical Illness Insurance  Excluded for [Miss M]
Sum insured - £100,000]
I know Miss M feels that the policy title is confusing. But Aviva can decide what name it gives 
to its insurance products  and it is a common title used for this type of term assurance. This 
service cannot order it to change the name or interfere in any legitimate operation of its 
commercial judgement. We arent a regulator of businesses; that role falls to the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
The policy has the title it does because some policyholders will choose life cover, and others 
will seek to apply for both life and critical illness cover. However, the decision as to whether 
to insure the applicant rests with Aviva. It cannot be compelled to insure every person that 
submits an application, and its underwriters will decide what risk it is prepared to accept, and 
the corresponding premium cost.
That a person is only offered life cover after underwriting (and not critical illness benefit) 
does not mean it ought to be inferred that they are covered for critical illness benefit, when 
that option has not been agreed by Aviva - nor have any premiums been paid for that cover.  
Miss Ms reduced premium was set out clearly in Avivas offer letter, and the reason for the 
£23.88 monthly premium reduction was because critical illness cover was not being offered 
to her. The policy terms issued to Miss M also make that clear, where they say:
What is Life and Critical Illness insurance?
Its an insurance policy that provides you with life cover and for an additional 
premium you can also choose to include critical illness cover.
Its aims
To pay out a cash lump sum if you die before your policy ends; or
To pay out a cash lump sum if youre diagnosed with a terminal illness before 
the last 12 months of your policy, and youre not expected to live more than 
12 months; or
Where critical illness cover is part of your policy [my emphasis], to pay 
out a cash lump sum if you are diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses we 
cover before your policy ends.
Critical illness benefit wasnt a part of Miss Ms policy. And whilst I know how upsetting it has 
been for her to discover that this is the case now, I cannot fault Avivas actions in 2014 and 
2015. I find that it issued clear communications to Miss M. I dont believe its fair or 
reasonable to require Aviva to consider a claim, where Miss M has never paid for critical 
illness benefit; Aviva was unable to insure her and it made her aware of that from the outset. My final decision
Despite my sympathy for the position Miss M has put forward, I dont believe Aviva to have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining to consider a critical illness benefit claim for her. 
So, I am not able to uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman