DRN-2076221
The complaint
Miss A has complained about the way Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA SA) has dealt with 
her home emergency claim.
 
What happened
Miss A has home emergency cover through her bank account, underwritten by IPA SA.
Any reference to IPA SA includes its agents.
Miss A asked IPA SA to complete a repair in her bathroom. The repair wasnt carried out 
properly which resulted in further damage. Miss A asked IPA SA to repair the additional 
damage and had to provide evidence from an independent third party that the damage was 
caused as a result of the initial repair. Miss A complains about delays, issues with the level 
of repairs and overall poor handling of her claim.
IPA SA offered Miss A £500 compensation and money towards repairs but Miss A didnt 
think this was enough and referred her complaint to this Service. Our investigator looked into 
the complaint and found IPA SA had caused significant distress and inconvenience to Miss 
A for which it should pay a compensation amount of £1,500. In addition, it should arrange 
repairs.
Miss A agreed but IPA didnt. It didnt think the level of compensation suggested was fair and 
said £1,000 was a fairer settlement. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the complaint should be resolved in the way suggested by our 
investigator for the reasons explained below.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly, and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
But in this case, IPA SA caused significant problems for Miss A followed by delays as a 
result of the damage following the initial repair. IPA SA didnt handle the claim promptly or 
fairly. It delayed in repairing the initial problem and when Miss A told it about the further 
damage, she had to employ a plumber at her own cost to confirm the damage was caused 
by the problems with the initial repair. So this caused significant stress and inconvenience to 
Miss A over a lengthy period of time. 
Ill now set out the key issues and explain why I consider £1,500 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Key evidence
 
Between October 2018 and March 2019  the initial repair was completed following 
four missed appointments
The problems with the repair caused extensive damage to the bathroom and some 
exterior walls
Miss A had to arrange a plumber to diagnose the cause of the problems 
Miss A had to take annual leave whilst the additional work following the initial repair 
was being completed 
The new repairs havent been finished properly 
The bathroom still isnt in a reasonable condition which is frustrating for Miss A 
Its been more than two years since the start of this issue 
Overall, the issue caused by the original repairs has resulted in delay, further distress, 
inconvenience and damage which has been repaired but to an unsatisfactory standard. I 
agree that the impact of these issues has been substantial.
IPA SA has agreed to reimburse Miss A for the plumbers costs of £240 and £100 for a 
replacement bathroom cabinet which had been damaged during repairs. But there are still 
outstanding problems which need to be remedied as set out by our investigator and below. 
Both sides have agreed these issues are outstanding and so IPA SA should arrange those 
repairs too.
Miss A also raised issues of mould in her kitchen and living area but I havent seen any 
expert evidence that this was caused by the issue in the bathroom. And so I dont think IPA 
SA needs to do anything about this.
Putting things right
I direct IPA SA to:
Pay Miss A total of £1,500 for the significant stress and inconvenience caused to her 
as a result of the above issues. Pay £240 for the plumbers costs and £100 for the 
damaged bathroom cabinet. In addition, it should complete the following repairs 
within a reasonable timeframe when its safe to do so following lockdown:
Mastic needs applying to the corner of the bath
Clean the pain and mastic from pedestal and toilet ceramic 
Put right the holes in the boxing 
Put right the missing fixing to the cistern
Sand back, repaint and reseal the boxing to the left of the pedestal, to the right of the 
toilet pan and right of the pedestal 
Carry out the necessary repair to the left-hand side of the bath panel 
Repair the damage to the lower cupboard space or replace with suitable alternative
Stain block and painting to the left of the bathroom door in the hallway 
Sand, stain block and repaint the left area of the bathroom door
Clear up the overspill on ceramic finishes in the bathroom along with the finish 
behind the toilet pan  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to do what I have set out in the putting things right section.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman