DRN-3765384
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) has 
refused to refund them the amount they lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr and Mrs D were in communication with a company called Global solutions 
(G) to make an investment in cryptocurrency. G asked Mr and Mrs D to download a screen 
sharing app called AnyDesk. This allowed G to see Mr and Mrs Ds screen and walk them 
through how to invest with it.
The following three payments were made from Mr and Mrs Ds Virgin account to a 
cryptocurrency exchange (Crypto.com) before the funds were sent on to G: 
1. 12 August 2021 - £3,061.76
2. 7 September 2021 - £2,619.66
3. 7 September 2021 £2,738.47
It turned out Mr and Mrs D had fallen victim to a scam. They were unable to make a 
withdrawal of their funds, or recover any of the payments they had made to G.
Our Investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed they said Mrs D has a heath condition thats makes her a venerable 
person and Virgin should have done more to protect them from the scam.
As Mr and Mrs D didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both 
Mr and Mrs D and Virgin set out what happened well. What is in dispute is whether Virgin 
should refund any of the money Mr and Mrs D have lost because of this scam.
Virgin was unable to attempt a chargeback for the payments Mr and Mrs D made in relation 
to this scam.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Mr and Mrs D were dealing with G, which was the business that instigated the scam. But Mr 
and Mrs D didnt make the debit card payments to G directly, they paid a separate 
cryptocurrency exchange (Crypto.com). This is important because Virgin was only able to 
process chargeback claims against the merchant they paid (Crypto.com), not another party 
(such as G).
The service provided by Crypto.com would have been to convert or facilitate conversion of
Mr and Mrs Ds payments into cryptocurrency. Therefore, Crypto.com provided the service 
that was requested; that being the purchase of the cryptocurrency.
The fact that the cryptocurrency was later transferred elsewhere  to the scammer  doesnt
give rise to a valid chargeback claim against the merchant Mr and Mrs D paid. As 
Crypto.com provided the requested service to Mr and Mrs D any chargeback attempt would 
likely fail. So, I think Virgin acted fairly by not pursuing this option.
Mr and Mrs D authorised the payments they made to Crypto.com, so the starting point here 
is that Mr and Mrs D are responsible. However, banks and other Payment Services 
Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial loss due to fraud 
and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Virgin should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments being made from Mr and Mrs Ds account.
Mr and Mrs D have told us that Mrs D has a health condition that made her venerable and 
more likely to fall victim to this scam. But I havent seen that Virgin was made aware of the 
condition or that it would need to put additional protection in place for payments made from 
their account. It would be Mr and Mrs Ds responsibility to make Virgin aware of this heath 
condition.
There also appears to be some confusion with who made the payments as they were made 
from Mr Ds debit card and SMS messages were sent from Virgin to Mr Ds phone requiring 
the payments to be authorised by Mr D before they could be made. I have also listened to a 
call Mr and Mrs D had with Virgin where Mr D specifically said it was himself that used his 
iPad, he downloaded the application AnyDesk and went through the process of making an 
investment with G.
In any event the payments that were made from Mr Ds debit card in relation to the scam, 
while clearly were significant to Mr and Mrs D are not considered large payments in general 
so I dont think the amounts would reasonably trigger Virgins fraud prevention systems. 
While two consecutive payments were made from Mr Ds debit card on 7 September 2021 
totalling more than £5,000, all these payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange and making several payments to Crypto.com on the same day was not unusual for 
Mr and Mrs D I can see several payments being made to Crypto.com on the same day 
several times on their bank statements. 
I appreciate the value of the payments being sent on 7 September 2021 were higher than 
usual for them, but it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say Virgin should step in every time 
its customers make larger than usual payments to a business it has a history of paying. 
Mr and Mrs D have raised several arguments including that after this scam took place some 
banks have put restrictions on payments made to cryptocurrency exchanges. While I 
appreciate this may be the case banking systems and decision evolve over time and I am unable to suggest Virgin should apply more recent changes to historical events. 
Overall, I dont think the payments made from Mr Ds debit card in relation to this scam 
would have reasonably triggered Virgins fraud prevention systems, and I dont think Virgin 
would have been able to prevent Mr and Mrs Ds loss. So, it doesnt need to refund any of 
the payments they made. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman