DRN-2956093
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way that British Gas Services Limited (BG) handled his claims 
under his home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr E came home to find that a tap was leaking, there was also an issue with a cistern. He 
called BG who sent an engineer and fitted a new tap and repaired the cistern. 
Sometime later, Mr E noticed that the stopcock was leaking and believed that the engineer, 
who had fixed the tap had caused this new leak. BG attended and replaced the stopcock.
Mr E found that his outside drain was causing the waste water to miss the gully and flood, so 
BG carried out an emergency repair on the drain. Mr E said that BG told him that they would 
return to complete the repair. But he said that BG didnt return. 
Mr E discovered another leak. He thought this leak was also the fault of BG as its engineer 
replaced a valve which caused an increase in pressure, that resulted in the leak. BG 
attended, resealed some pipework and fixed the leak. 
A few months later, Mr E reported a further leak coming from his bathroom which affected 
the ceiling and walls below. BG sent an engineer who told Mr E that he would need to trace 
and access the leak via the ceiling. Mr E didnt want the engineer to put a hole in the ceiling 
and asked him to look under the bath instead. Mr E describes that the engineer removed the 
bath panel, touched the pipework under the bath and then left. Mr E said that following this a 
further leak occurred. But this time he asked his own engineer to repair the leak and decided 
to change his entire bathroom. 
Mr E was unhappy with the service he was provided with from BG and raised a complaint. 
He said that it hadnt repaired the outside drain properly as this was still causing waste water 
to miss the drain which was undermining the foundations of his property. He said that the 
engineer who had attended for the leak in the bathroom dislodged some pipes and made the 
leak worse. He wanted BG to contribute towards the damage caused to his walls and ceiling 
and to repair the drain.
In its final response, BG said that it wasnt responsible for the damage caused to the walls 
and ceiling. Mr E had refused to allow the BG engineer to access the leak via the ceiling and 
as there was no other way to access the leak under the bath, any damage caused was 
consequential and Mr E ought to claim under his home insurance. 
It said that Mr E wanted a repair carried out to his drains that wasnt covered under the 
policy, especially as the emergency repair that had been carried out left the drain free 
flowing. So, there was nothing further BG could do. 
Mr E was unhappy with this outcome and referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and partially upheld it. She said that the 
drains policy didnt cover the repairs that Mr E wanted, so BG fulfilled its liability under the 
policy. She concluded that it was unclear if BG had caused additional damage to Mr Es 
walls and ceiling as there had been a previous leak, so she couldnt reasonably ask BG to 
pay for the cost of repairing the walls and ceiling. But she felt that the repair had failed, so 
she recommended that BG pay £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
BG accepted the findings, Mr E did not. He said that the £100 offered was insulting and that 
he would not be able to find anyone to carry out the work needed for that sum. He said that 
he intended to give the money away to charity and he would match that sum. So, he asked 
for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Es complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment 
to Mr E, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Mr E has relied upon a few points, all of which I have considered. However, I only need to be 
satisfied whether BG acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr E, when it handled his claim. 
Consequently, Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of this complaint. The two main 
areas that Mr E complained of BGs poor service, relate to the outside drain and the leaks 
that caused damage to Mr Es internal walls and ceiling. 
Mr E had a BG home emergency policy which amongst other things covered his home for 
home emergencies for plumbing and drain problems. Dealing with the outside drain, Mr E 
said that the drain had developed a crack that caused it to misfire waste water and resulted 
in the drain flooding. He called BG who carried out an emergency repair with cement and left 
the drain free flowing of water. But Mr E said that BG had agreed to return to cement around 
the drain. This wasnt done due to the government restrictions at the time. 
I have examined this further. The terms and conditions of cover provide for repairs that 
repair and unblock drains to restore flow, which includes repairing leaks to internal waste 
water drains and external soil pipes.  BG provided photos to show that the repair was 
complete as the free flow of waste water was restored. 
BG told Mr E that the additional work that he wanted it to do, was not covered under the 
terms and conditions of the policy. It said that Mr E wanted an upgrade to the present 
system, which would amount to maintenance, and therefore not an emergency repair. 
Having considered this further, I agree. The basis of the policy was to provide an emergency 
repair that would restore the main function of the drain. From the evidence, this was 
achieved. So, I dont think BG were unfair to decline doing the additional work, as this 
wouldve been a general maintenance issue, which the policy doesnt cover.
I have next considered whether BG were fair to refuse to pay for the damage caused to Mr 
Es ceiling and walls, as Mr E wouldve liked. Mr E said he contacted BG who sent an 
engineer. That engineer diagnosed that the best way to access the leak was via the ceiling. 
But he told Mr E that there was a possibility that asbestos was present, which Mr E would 
have to get checked before BG attempted a repair.
Mr E asked the engineer to access the leak from the bathroom. Mr E said that the engineer 
dislodged some pipes in the process and caused a further leak. But before BG had had the opportunity to inspect the leak, Mr E got an independent engineer to assess the leak and 
ultimately decided to install a new bathroom. 
Mr E confirmed that he would not be able to get a report from his engineer that could show 
what was done and give an opinion on whether the BG engineer had caused a further leak. 
Without this evidence, I cant be sure that the damage that was caused to the ceiling and 
walls, wasnt as a result of the first leak that BG attended to. So, as there is no expert 
evidence from Mr E on balance, I think the damage caused to the walls and ceiling are likely 
to have been caused by the initial leak. 
I understand that BG had accepted our investigators recommendation to pay Mr E the £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. But Mr E doesnt accept the recommended 
£100. Consequently, I wont be directly BG to pay Mr E the £100. Although Mr E can 
approach BG if he changes his mind and if BG are willing to pay him the £100. 
Overall, I dont think BG had acted unfairly as it had carried out the repair of the drains as 
per the terms and conditions of the policy. And as Mr E hasnt provided any evidence of the 
work done by the independent engineer, Im not satisfied that the damage caused to his 
walls and ceiling were as a result of the BG engineer dislodging pipework. 
I fully appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr E wouldve liked, and I am sorry to 
disappoint him. But I think BG has applied the policy terms fairly and I cant reasonably ask it 
to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman