DRN-3672743
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy a claim made for storm damage under her home insurance policy has 
been declined by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA).
What happened
In November 2021 there was a storm and Mrs N reported storm damage to her roof to RSA, 
her home insurance provider.
RSA arranged for a surveyor to inspect the damage. Whilst RSA accepted there were storm 
conditions at the time, they didnt think that the storm had caused the damage to the roof. 
So, RSA declined the claim.
Mrs N complained to RSA who maintained the claim decision. But they paid £50 
compensation as the surveyor had stained Mrs Ns carpet when they didnt remove their 
shoes. Mrs N remained unhappy with the claim decision and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed there 
were storm conditions, but based on the surveyor report, she thought the likely cause of the 
damage was gradual damage and wear and tear, which is excluded under Mrs Ns policy.
Mrs N didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider complaints about storm damage claims, we take into account the 
following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
RSA accepts there was a storm and thats not in dispute, so I dont need to make a decision 
about question one. And a roof and tiles could be damaged in a storm, in the right 
conditions, which potentially satisfies question two.
However, RSA has declined the claim as they say many of the tiles had broken down and 
eroded, which happens over time. They also said that the tiles that were displaced had moss 
and mildew in the gaps left by the tiles, showing they had been displaced some time before 
the storm. So, RSA say that the storm wasnt the main or dominant cause of damage, 
instead, they say the damage is wear and tear and happened gradually, and this has been 
highlighted by the weather at the time.
Mrs Ns policy excludes:
Wear and Tear
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind directly or indirectly caused by, or 
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin (except 
for cover 6 under Home Emergency cover), fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything 
that happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or 
restoration.
Ive seen the report completed by the surveyor and the images of the roof taken at the time, 
and Im persuaded by their findings and conclusions. The damage to the roof does look like 
it has been present for some time, rather than due to the storm shortly before the inspection 
was carried out. So, on this basis, I dont think RSA has acted unfairly by declining the claim 
based on the above exclusion.
Whilst I note Mrs N doesnt agree with the surveyor, no expert report or evidence has been 
provided which shows their conclusions are incorrect. So, having seen the report and 
images, and in the absence of any other expert reports, Im satisfied the surveyor reached a 
reasonable conclusion.
I also note Mrs N has said her neighbour who is insured with a different insurer has had their 
claim paid. However, here Im only considering Mrs Ns claim and the decision reached by 
her insurer. And I dont think their decision is incorrect based on what Ive seen.
Mrs N has only raised the claim decision as a complaint with us. But I note RSA paid £50 
compensation in their final response for her carpet being stained. Based on the information 
provided, I think thats fair compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman