DRN-2190344
The complaint
Mr K has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC has placed a marker about the misuse of his 
account facility on his record. He doesnt believe he did anything to cause this.
What happened
Mr K had an account with Barclays which was closed on 8 April 2016. In 2019 he went to 
open a savings account with another bank. This application was rejected. He found Barclays 
had lodged a fraud-related marker against him with the industry fraud database, CIFAS.
He complained to Barclays who felt there was sufficient evidence to show theyd had reason 
to believe Mr K had received unauthorised funds into his account which he then spent or 
transferred elsewhere. Barclays did note that back in 2016 theyd taken longer to review 
Mr Ks account than theyd promised. They paid him £50 in compensation.
Mr K brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator reviewed the 
evidence from both Barclays and Mr K. Mr K told him hed sold a couple of sofas and 
received about £2,100 from someone he didnt know that well. He believes they then raised 
a false claim with Barclays to try and get the money back.
After considering evidence from the bank where the money had been sent from into Mr Ks 
account, our investigator believed there was enough evidence to show Barclays hadnt done 
anything wrong. Ill call this other bank H.
Mr K has had a tough time of things and hasnt been well. Hes anxious about the impact of 
the CIFAS marker and thinks its unfair that its not been removed. Hes asked an 
ombudsman to make a decision on his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank must have a good reason to 
believe it could have suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press 
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should be more than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker can have on someone, the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions 
were made were covered in our investigators view of 7 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the 
basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr K and Barclays Ive read the file thoroughly and 
reviewed all the evidence. 
The following summarises what Ive considered:
Barclays closed Mr Ks account after H notified them hed received a fraudulent 
payment of £2,058. They didnt however scrutinise this evidence. They blocked 
Mr Ks account and then closed it. They then repaid £464 to H from Mr Ks account.
Our investigator contacted H to see what evidence they had of this transfer in 
March 2016. This showed thered been another attempted payment of £950 destined 
for Mr Ks account.
Theres no evidence to show Mr K contacted Barclays back in 2016 to wonder why 
hed not received £950 that was being sent to him. He also didnt query the fact 
money had been removed from his account when it was closed.
Theres no dispute Mr K took out £200 from his account after hed received the 
payment for £2,058 and sent the remaining money to someone he knew. That person 
then sent £100 back to Mr K £100.
Mr K says he owed someone money but I think its unusual that the money he owed 
tallied so closely with the money he received from the sale of two sofas.
Mr K no longer has any evidence about the sofas and who he sold them to. This did 
occur more than four years ago so Im not surprised he wasnt able to provide us with 
any evidence apart from his testimony.
Id generally expect Barclays to have carried out an investigation prior to making a decision 
to lodge a CIFAS marker. Thats certainly the requirement. I cant see they did this at the 
time. Therefore Mr K had no opportunity to explain what had happened or provide any 
evidence that he may still have had at the time.
However having reviewed the evidence we do have now, I think it is most likely Mr K knew 
he was in receipt of fraudulent funds and passed them on to a third party. This means 
Barclays could lodge a CIFAS marker as the evidence supports them.
I appreciate a CIFAS marker will have a considerable impact on Mr K and may limit his 
chances of securing financial services products. This was lodged in April 2016 and will 
disappear from his CIFAS record in April 2022.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ks complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman