DRN-3315416
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lookers Motor Group Limited mis-sold her a minor damage protection 
insurance policy for her car. 
What happened
Ms M went to buy a new car and she was given a presentation about the minor repairs 
insurance. Ms M decided to buy this product. She later asked for a copy of the policys terms 
and conditions. When Ms M made a claim on her policy, she was told it only provided touch 
up paint for her repair. Ms M said if she had been given better information she wouldnt have 
bought the policy. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that the 
presentation had provided the key features of the policy and directed Ms M to the policy 
terms and conditions. She saw evidence that Ms M had been provided with the relevant 
information to decide whether or not the policy suited her needs. So she didnt think the 
policy had been mis-sold.
Ms M replied that she disagreed that shed been given sufficient information to enable her to 
consider whether the policy was suitable or to cancel it within the cooling off period. She 
thought this period should have started from when she received her car or the policy 
documents. She said she was never told that the policy excluded full repairs to chips to the 
bonnet, top or back of the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms M made her claim when she found a chip on the tailgate of her car. The repair was made 
using touch up paint and Ms M was unhappy that a full repair wasnt made. But I think the 
level of cover provided was the responsibility of the insurer, not Lookers. And as thats a 
separate business I cant consider that here. 
But Ms M thought that if shed been given better information about the policy by Lookers 
then she wouldnt have bought it. The sale of the policy was non-advised. So Ive looked to 
see whether Lookers gave Ms M sufficient information about the policy to enable her to 
make an informed choice. In doing this Ive considered whether Lookers followed its sales 
process correctly and if it gave Ms M the prescribed information as it should have. 
Ms M was first provided with a presentation that went through the key features of the policy. 
This referred her to the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) for full information 
about what was covered. A demands and needs statement was completed and signed by 
Ms M. This said that Ms M agreed that she had received the IPID. So Im satisfied that 
Lookers carried out the correct sales process.
Ms M said she hadnt received the full policy terms and conditions and she later contacted 
Lookers to ask for a copy. I cant see that Ms M then raised any concerns with the policy. 
So I think Lookers gave Ms M sufficient information about the policy for her to decide 
whether or not it suited her needs. The evidence is that Ms M had been provided with the 
IPID setting out the policys terms and conditions. And Ms M didnt raise any concerns when 
she was provided with the policys full terms and conditions. So I cant say that Lookers mis-
sold the policy to Ms M. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman