DRN-3337823
The complaint
Mr G held a credit card account with MBNA Limited. He complains that the secure e mail 
system used by MBNA is difficult to navigate because of his disability.
What happened
Mr G holds a card account with MBNA. 
MBNA were dealing with a complaint from Mr G about another matter. The complaint 
handler sent e mails to Mr G through the secure message system which meant that they 
were encrypted and needed Mr G to log into a portal to view. 
Mr G complained to the MBNA about this. He said that as they were password protected, it 
made it difficult for him to open them. 
MBNA responded to Mr Gs complaint on 16 August 2021. They said that all emails are sent 
encrypted as it helps protect their own and the customers information against cyberattack 
and they were unable to send emails unencrypted. 
Mr G was unhappy with this response, and so he asked us to look into it. He said that he 
didnt think it was necessary to send e mails encrypted if they didnt contain any confidential 
information. He also said that secure messaging system was difficult to access and caused 
him distress as it takes him time to learn a new system. He has to repeat processes to get 
good at them and he is a slow learner. He doesnt have regular enough communication with 
MBNA to get to understand the system. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Gs complaint. She thought that MBNA could do 
more to help, and she recommended that MBNA downgraded any e mails sent to Mr G to 
unsecure and put notes on his account to reflect that, so if staff needed to email him, they 
could follow the adjusted process.      
Mr G was happy with the investigators view, but he wanted a firm guarantee from MBNA 
that this would always be applied. The investigator told Mr G that we have a firm 
commitment from MBNA that they will do as we have recommended, and that they have 
marked his account accordingly but that a guarantee wouldnt be possible as the unsecure 
email process isnt automated and when there is a human intervention in a process, there is 
always the possibility of error. However, any error could be the subject of a complaint. 
Mr G then asked that MBNA to appoint one person to take ownership of his casework and 
agree to pay him £1000 if there was any breach of the commitment regarding e mails. 
As the investigator was unable to agree with this, the case came to me to review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
Secure messaging system
I can understand why Mr G finds it difficult to use the secure messaging system, as it needs 
him to access a secure portal and use a passphrase each time he does so. Although this 
passphrase only has to be set once, it adds an extra step which for some people can be 
challenging. Mr G tells us that he is someone for who this additional step is challenging. 
I can also understand why Mr G feels that secure messaging is unnecessary when there is 
no confidential information in the email. 
MBNA have explained to us that an email can be downgraded from confidential to unsecure 
with a managers authorisation, and this enables it to be sent without using the secure 
messaging system. However, the e mail would need to be redacted removing any sensitive 
information. 
I can see that Mr G doesnt think he has come across this secure messaging system when 
communicating with MBNA previously, and I also see that only some areas of the business 
use this system. So, I agree with the investigator that it is reasonable given Mr Gs difficulties 
to ask MBNA to apply the option of downgrading Mr Gs emails to unsecure on the 
infrequent occasions it is likely to be needed.  
The content of any e mails sent unsecure will have to be fairly basic, and as suggested by 
the investigator, will likely only arrange a time for a call in which more sensitive matters can 
be discussed. 
I note that Mr G still has other contact options available to him such as phone, live chat and 
he can also go into Lloyds branches for face to face service if needed. MBNA can also send 
information by post. 
I have then considered the points Mr G has raised following the investigators 
recommendation. 
I can see why Mr G has found having a single point of contact at FOS helpful, but I dont 
think it is reasonable to ask MBNA to provide the same. At FOS we only deal with 
complaints, but there are many different parts of MBNA that may need to contact Mr G about 
his account, and it wouldnt be practical for all contact to be the responsibility of one person, 
and it could actually impair the service that Mr G receives if that person is not available. I 
consider it is a much more fail-safe system if the account is clearly marked for all staff to see 
the adjustment required and they can make timely contact with Mr G in the appropriate way.
 
In terms of Mr Gs request for £1000 compensation for any breach of the agreed adjustment, 
I cant make any recommendation for something that hasnt happened as its not in our remit. 
This service deals with complaints about events that have happened and assesses the 
impact on the customer of those events.
  
Putting things right
MBNA should: 
Apply clear notes to Mr Gs customer records to reflect that as a reasonable adjustment, any 
contact with Mr G by e mail should be classified as unsecure and sent in accordance with 
MBNAs process.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint about MBNA 
Limited and direct them to put things right as described above.    
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman