DRN-3359980
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Unum Ltd declined a claim made under Mrs Ms employers 
group critical illness scheme.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
Mrs M joined her employers group critical illness scheme on 1 January 2020, with cover 
also provided to Mr M under a spouse membership benefit. After receiving a multiple 
sclerosis diagnosis in December 2020, Mr M made a claim under the policy. Unum declined 
the claim under an ongoing investigations exclusion. 
A complaint was raised but Unums position didnt change. In short, they said:
Medical records show Mr M saw his GP in October 2019 and provided a six to 
twelve-month history of weakness in his left arm and leg.
It also shows that Mr M was subsequently referred for an MRI of his spine which 
showed a patch of what looked like demyelination. So, an MRI of Mr Ms head was 
arranged. This  alongside the scan of the lower part of Mr Ms spinal cord  showed 
some soft evidence of further demyelination which encouraged the consultant 
neurologist (in November 2019) to think the cervical spinal cord lesion seen earlier 
was probably related to multiple sclerosis.
Further investigations were undertaken through 2020 which led to final diagnosis of 
multiple sclerosis. 
Investigations into Mr Ms symptoms clearly began prior to cover commencing and so 
the claim didnt meet the policy criteria for payment of benefits for this critical illness 
event.  
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it 
but she didnt think Unum had unfairly declined the claim. In short, she said:
Although Mr M was diagnosed after cover commenced, the medical evidence shows 
that symptoms and investigations started beforehand. And so, the ongoing 
investigations exclusion applies which means Mr Ms condition isnt covered. 
As cover was provided under a group policy through Mrs Ms employer, the employer 
wouldve been responsible for providing Mr and Mrs M with the relevant policy 
information. 
This type of cover doesnt typically involve medical underwriting  and so medical 
and lifestyle questions arent asked before its set up (and Unum wasnt required to 
do this). The cover does however have limitations that apply to all policy members  
in Mr Ms case, the ongoing investigations exclusion was relevant to him.
She didnt think the policy was mis-sold as there wasnt any advice given to 
Mr and Mrs M. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Mr and Mrs M that Ive given careful consideration to everything 
theyve said in support of their complaint. I realise this is a very difficult time for them in light 
of Mr Ms diagnosis. But what I must consider here is whether Unum has acted fairly by 
declining the claim. I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M are hoping for but, for the 
reasons Ill explain, I think they have. 
The policy conditions (user guide - including general terms) set out the cover Mr and Mrs M 
receive as members of the group scheme. This includes when Unum is required to pay a 
claim. Mr and Mrs M agreed to these conditions when they joined the scheme and so, I think 
its reasonable for Unum to apply them when considering the claim. Ive therefore looked at 
whether theyve done so fairly.
The policy conditions say:
Pre-existing and related conditions exclusions

Ongoing investigations: No benefit will be paid for any medical condition or surgical 
procedure where the member was undergoing ongoing medical investigations or 
monitoring before the date of becoming a member, which led to the later diagnosis of 
a critical illness or related condition.
Having seen Mr Ms medical records, Im satisfied that he was undergoing ongoing medical 
investigations for the weakness in his left arm and leg prior to joining the scheme. And that 
these investigations ultimately led to the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. I therefore consider 
Unum has acted fairly, and in line with the scheme conditions, by applying the above 
exclusion to the claim.
I understand Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how the cover was provided to them. Theyve 
said they didnt receive a copy of the policy conditions and that Unum didnt ask them about 
their medical history prior to them joining the scheme. Mr and Mrs M have explained that, as 
cover was accepted, they assumed that it was valid and had no reason to think otherwise. 
And if they knew Mr M wouldnt have been covered for the ongoing investigations, then they 
wouldnt have taken this cover out. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M feel very strongly about this situation but, as our investigator 
explained, cover provided through a group scheme differs to individual policies. This 
includes the process of putting the cover in place. This is because the policyholder of the 
group scheme here is Mrs Ms employer. This means Unum didnt sell cover to Mr and Mrs M. Instead, Mrs Ms employer set up a policy with Unum that allowed them to 
offer cover as an employee benefit (by becoming a member of the scheme). 
Naturally, group schemes can have a significant number of members. And so, rather than 
underwrite each member individually (which isnt practical as members can regularly 
change), the policy provides blanket cover but with specified exclusions. This is common 
industry practice. Mrs Ms employer, as the policyholder, were provided the relevant policy 
information by Unum so that they could share it with scheme members. And, like many other 
employee benefits, it is for the employee to decide if they wish to opt in for that benefit or not 
based on the information available to them.
So, although Ive taken Mr and Mrs Ms point into consideration, Unum werent required to 
individually underwrite them prior to cover commencing. Nor were they required to provide 
Mr and Mrs M with a copy of the policy conditions as that responsibility lied with Mrs Ms 
employer. 
The policy conditions were therefore available to Mr and Mrs M through the employer. If a 
copy wasnt received, then I think Mr and Mrs M couldve asked for it. And, had they done 
so, they wouldve seen that under the Risk factors section on page five it says:
You should be aware of the following risks:

A pre-existing conditions exclusion applies to cover under this policy. 
I think the above warning makes it sufficiently clear that there are exclusions applicable to 
pre-existing conditions. I dont think I can hold Unum responsible if Mr and Mrs M didnt 
receive a copy of the policy conditions and read this. 
In summary, Mr and Mrs M werent sold critical illness cover by Unum. But rather Mrs Ms 
employer gave her the option of taking out cover as an employee benefit by becoming a 
scheme member. And Im satisfied Unum provided the relevant policy information to Mrs Ms 
employer so that it could be shared with her (and other scheme members). It was therefore 
for Mr and Mrs M to decide whether this type of cover was appropriate for their needs. If Mr 
and Mrs M werent sure or didnt understand how the scheme worked compared to an 
individual policy, then they couldve sought financial advice at the time.
It follows that, while Im very sympathetic to Mr and Mrs M circumstances, I think Unum has 
acted fairly  and in line with the scheme conditions  by declining Mr Ms critical illness 
claim. 
I realise this wont change Mr and Mrs Ms current situation but, on a final note, Id like to 
explain that even if theyd applied for an individual policy (rather than join the group 
scheme), its most likely Mr Ms condition wouldnt have been covered anyway. This is 
because it wouldve required underwriting and so Mr M wouldve had to disclose his medical 
history, including the ongoing investigations for the weakness in his arm and leg. And, in this 
scenario, most insurers would typically postpone offering cover until the cause of the 
symptoms is diagnosed. At which point, once the multiple sclerosis was confirmed, cover 
most likely wouldnt be offered by an insurer. I know this will be of little comfort, but its highly 
unlikely Mr Ms condition wouldve been covered regardless of the insurer cover may have 
been sought with.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman