DRN-3938238
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Clifton Compliance Services Ltd (Clifton) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes 
this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
Our Investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Clifton disagreed with the 
Investigators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Mr Ms complaint was within the jurisdiction of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, but that I didnt think that it shouldnt be upheld. A copy 
of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics and form 
part of this final decision. 
Ive not included what I said about the jurisdiction of this complaint as neither party 
commented on this. But for the avoidance of doubt, I still think the complaint is one I can 
consider. 
What I said in my provisional decision
The situation surrounding this transfer is unusual. Ive summarised some of the information I have 
been provided about it below.
In August 2011 Mr M approached Clifton to discuss his pension and retirement needs. At this point he 
was still a member of his DB scheme.
Mr M has said he wanted to do this as he was subject to disciplinary proceedings where he was 
employed. He said that he had been informed that he could ultimately lose his pension benefits if 
these proceedings found against him.
Clifton says that, at this early point, it informed Mr M that DB pension transfers were generally bad 
advice. And that as he was a current, and active, member of his DB scheme then he wouldnt be able 
to transfer in any event.
Mr M then took steps to leave his employers DB scheme. This took some time, but Mr M and Clifton 
kept in touch. Once Mr M had opted out of the DB scheme he and Clifton started to correspond in 
more detail about the transfer. Clifton says that Mr M indicated that he still wanted to transfer. Clifton 
sent an email to Mr M in March 2012 which said that:
 you have made it abundantly clear that you are fully committed to transferring away from the [DB 
scheme], irrespective of the final transfer amount and the standard best advice to leave the funds 
where they are. Testament to your determination in this regard is the decision to opt out of the [DB 
scheme], whilst remaining in the employment of the [], a controversial choice that we have 
discussed in some detail in recent months.
In response to this Mr M said that:
I still wish to opt out. there are several questions that I would like you to help me with but my 
opinion has not changed but is even more reinforced by the now prevalent rumour that after the 
Olympics they plan a cull of employees of some kind, and as our role is being phased out, I suspect 
that I may be in that exodus
Mr M and Clifton met in April 2012 and a full fact finding process took place. Clifton took some 
information about Mr Ms circumstances and requirements which I have looked at.
Usually, when looking at a complaint about the suitability of a DB transfer, Id consider if the transfer 
was suitable for a consumer with reference to their circumstances. But, as Ill outline below, Clifton 
told Mr M that the transfer wasnt in his best interests. So, I dont need to do this here, as its 
established that Cliftons advice was that he shouldnt transfer. So, I dont need to outline most of 
what was in the fact find, as I dont really need to refer to this when considering this complaint.
In respect of Mr Ms motivations to transfer, the notes to the fact find said that:
 Mr M and I discussed this matter in depth over a number of weeks - I stressed that it was 'bad 
advice' to opt out pf a gilt-edged public sector DB scheme. 
HOWEVER  Mr M WAS ADAMENT THAT HE WANTED TO CONTINUE DOWN THIS
ROUTE. There are some emails in the system covering this issue.
In April 2012 Clifton sent Mr M a suitability letter. This was in respect of the setting up of the SIPP that 
would eventually receive the DB transfer. Mr M was opening the SIPP and transferring in another 
personal pension fund that he had. This letter outlined this part of the advice in relation to his 
circumstances. Mr M has not complained about the transfer of this pension plan into the SIPP.
This first report said that Mr Ms ultimate aim for starting the SIPP was to use it to purchase some land 
that he owned. Mr M then could use the capital released to start an agricultural business.
Mr M transferred £54,310.71 from a personal pension into his SIPP in May 2012 Clifton issued a 
second suitability letter in June 2012, this was produced as the full details of his DB scheme, and the 
transfer value, were now available. This outlined Mr Ms circumstances, details about the DB scheme 
and the transfer value. Again, I wont detail all of the advice here. But the summary to this second 
suitability report said that:
We believe the level of returns (the critical yield) required to match the current scheme are high and 
probably not achievable.
Furthermore, the majority of your retirement benefits are made up of these final salary benefits 
currently, which means you do not currently hold significant other retirement or liquid assets to fall 
back on should your chosen investment strategy not be as successful as intended.
In conclusion, we do not recommend the transfer of these benefits.
Mr M proceeded with the transfer of the DB scheme. £153,406 was transferred into the SIPP from this 
in October 2012.
Mr M was sent a third suitability letter in October 2012. This was a full summary of the advice given so 
far and included information about the investment that would be held within the SIPP. Mr M also 
hasnt complained about this part of the advice. That is, he hasnt complained that the SIPP was the 
wrong product for him or made any complaint about how this SIPP was used to purchase the land 
and any related transactions.
Central to this complaint is Mr Ms relationship with his employer. When Mr M first met with Clifton he 
was subject to a disciplinary proceeding. From what hes said this was of a serious nature. And hes 
been clear that he was told that one outcome of this was that he could lose his DB scheme benefits. 
These proceedings were resolved, in Mr Ms favour, I understand before the transfer had completed.But Mr M has consistently said that relations with his employer were not great. Hed had problems of a 
similar nature in the past and he expected these to continue in the future. This was one of the primary 
drivers of why he wanted to transfer. Hes essentially said that he wanted to control his pension fund 
and he didnt want it used as leverage in any employment disputes he may have with his employer in 
the future.
And its also worth noting that the advice was given on the basis that Mr M was intending to start an 
agricultural business. But fairly soon after the transfer completed, it was clear this may not happen. 
Mr M took steps to develop the land in a different way but this also didnt come to fruition. But whilst 
its clear that Clifton helped with the setup and the running of the SIPP, the investment decisions were 
largely Mr Ms.
Mr M moved the management of the SIPP away from the original provider Clifton recommended in 
2013 and Clifton ceased to advise him about the SIPP at this point. 
Mr M remained with the same employer, and I understand that he re-joined the DB scheme in 2018.
Mr M complained in 2021 to Clifton about the suitability of the transfer advice because he said the DB 
transfer wouldve led to him receiving lower benefits than if he had stayed an active member. He said 
that he wasnt a high risk investor and the SIPP arrangement represented too high a risk for him.
Clifton didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that he had decided to transfer before he met with 
Clifton. As this was the case it treated him as an insistent customer and processed the transfer. It 
said it advised Mr M not to transfer his DB scheme benefits.
Mr M referred his complaint to our service. Clifton initially didnt think that this complaint was within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service as it had been brought too late. Our Investigator first 
looked at the jurisdiction of the complaint. He thought that it had been made in time as it was unlikely 
that Mr M would have been aware that he had cause to complain before his ultimate plans for the land 
were certain not to come to fruition. He said that this was in 2021. Because of this, he wouldnt have 
been aware that he may have suffered a loss before this time.
The Investigator upheld the complaint and recommended Clifton pay compensation. He said that 
Clifton hadnt properly assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk, and it was unlikely to be as high as 
adventurous. And that Mr M was likely to receive much lower retirement benefits due to the transfer. 
So, Clifton was right to say that the transfer wasnt in his best interests.
But our Investigator didnt think it was right to treat Mr M as an insistent customer. Mr M wanted to 
transfer because he thought he may lose his DB pension as a result of his work problems. Our 
Investigator thought that Clifton should have informed Mr M that this was very unlikely. If it had 
provided this reassurance, then its likely that Mr M would not have transferred his DB scheme 
benefits.
Clifton disagreed, saying that it advised Mr M not to transfer his DB scheme benefits. Added to this, it 
said that it didnt have the expertise or knowledge about Mr Ms employers grievance process to 
enable it to have provided advice about the likely affect of this on his pension entitlement. And M 
approached Clifton and drove the advice process, Clifton did not initially contact him.
Mr Ms representative agreed with what the Investigator said.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to
me to make a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided about the merits of Mr Ms complaint  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that this transfer was unlikely to be in Mr Ms best interests financially. The point of 
sale documentation shows that it was almost certain that Mr M would receive lower retirement benefits due to it, if hed invested in standard investments. This was outlined in all the documentation 
Ive seen. And the notes to a lot of the conversations also say this was discussed.
So, I dont need to consider if the transfer was in Mr Ms best interests financially as its already been 
established that it wasnt. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont disagree that this was likely to be the 
case.
Clifton says that it clearly advised Mr M not to transfer because of this. But Mr M proceeded with the 
transfer against its advice as he was an insistent customer. Ive looked to see if this is likely to be the 
case, and whether Clifton should have done more in respect of this. Ive also thought about whether 
its likely Mr M would have proceeded in any event. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of insistent 
clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules in the regulators Handbook 
which required Clifton to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of 
its client. In addition, COBS required Clifton to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. So, Cliftons recommendation had to be clear and Mr M had to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
I think there were shortcomings in Cliftons process and how it treated Mr M as an insistent customer 
 that is, one who wanted to act contrary to the advice given. But, at present, I think that, even if 
Clifton had done everything it shouldve done, Mr M would still have gone ahead with the transfer of 
his DB scheme to the SIPP and used it to purchase the land. Ill explain why.
It was Mr M who contacted Clifton with a view to releasing money from his DB pension. And he 
already had an idea of what he wanted to do with the funds he would release. Because of this, I dont 
think that, at this early point, its unreasonable to say that Mr M fully intended to make the transfer and 
he approached Clifton to act on his instructions.
But, the reason why this was is important. As Ive outlined above, Mr M was having problems with his 
employer. These problems were potentially very serious, they had been ongoing for some time, in 
some shape or form, and he expected them to continue. 
So, when he approached Clifton, I think its fair to say that Mr M genuinely thought that the DB 
transfer was the best option for him, and this would alleviate some of issues that he was facing at 
work. Particularly the threat that his DB scheme entitlement could be removed.
Our Investigator looked into this and it seems that Mr M could have lost his DB scheme benefits, but it 
was very unlikely. And in any event the threat was removed before the transfer was completed as 
Mr Ms disciplinary proceeding was resolved in his favour. Although I do note he has commented that 
he felt this wouldnt be the end of the employment problems he had.
So, what I have to think about is what should Clifton had done about this. And how should it have 
incorporated this situation into the advice process.
I dont agree that Clifton should have advised Mr M about his work disciplinary process. Cliftons role 
here was to give financial advice on a pension transfer, it would be wholly inappropriate for it to assist 
with, or provide comment on, Mr Ms work disciplinary process. If Clifton had done this it could have 
caused significant problems both for it and Mr M. I dont agree that this should have formed part of the 
advice process.
But what I think Clifton should have done is told Mr M that he needed to get more information or 
advice on this issue. And I would have expected this to have been done at an early point, and in 
writing, so it was clear to all parties. And I dont think it was right that the Clifton proceeded with the 
DB transfer process whilst the grievance was ongoing and Mr M felt he was under this uncertainty.
So, I have to consider what its likely that Mr M would have done if Clifton acted as I think it should. I 
appreciate there are no certainties here. But I understand that Mr M would have likely been in contact 
with bodies such as his Union. And Im conscious that he did approach Clifton with a plan as to how 
he wanted to use the DB transfer funds. And this wasnt a plan that seemed to have come about as a result of the disciplinary process, it seemed to have originated before this. And perhaps most 
importantly here, I note the disciplinary process was concluded before the transfer was effected. And 
so, Mr M could have not transferred at this point if he thought this made a material difference.
So, overall, I think Mr M did want to transfer and start his agricultural, or other business. And whilst his 
desire to do this may have been informed by his problems at work, I think its likely he wanted to 
transfer in any event and he would have done so whatever Clifton said. 
Overall, even though I think Cliftons insistent client process could have been fairer, I dont think that 
would have changed the outcome in Mr Ms particular case. I say that because on balance, I think 
even if Clifton had made their insistent client process fairer, Mr M would have pursued the transfer 
and insisted on Clifton transferring his pension.
Clifton, and Mr M received my provisional decision. Clifton agreed with what I had said. 
Mr M, via his representative, didnt agree with my provisional decision. He, said that:
He agreed that the problems with his employer influenced his decision to transfer, but 
he was a vulnerable customer at the time and Clifton didnt account for this. 
The information at the time of sale didnt make it clear why the DB transfer was 
unsuitable for him. 
It wasnt explained that the investment returns needed to match what he was giving 
up were unlikely to be achieved. 
The fees and charges of the SIPP were not properly explained.
He didnt have a high attitude to risk, and he had limited investment experience
Clifton should have done more to check whether the investment route that Mr M had 
in mind was suitable for him. Particularly as it was a high risk strategy. 
Ive looked at everything again bearing in mind what Mr M and his representative has said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M didnt really raise any new points after receiving my provisional decision, or provide 
any further evidence. So, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same 
reasons.
As I said in my provisional decision, I think that Clifton did explain to Mr M that the DB 
transfer was unlikely to be in his best interests. I think this was clear in the point of sale 
documentation, and Clifton seems to have explained this to Mr M in the conversations they 
had over time. It also explained the SIPP, and the fees and charges of the arrangement. I 
think it provided a reasonable explanation of the transfer and what the effects of it could be 
for Mr M. 
Mr M says that he wasnt a high risk investor, and he had limited investment experience. He 
didnt fully understand the risks of the SIPP and how the investment would work. He thinks 
Clifton should have done more here. 
I still think that Mr M was driving the transfer. And he was using the SIPP as a way to 
release capital essentially to start a business venture. This course of action was likely to be 
risky, simply because most new businesses are. Clifton explained the risks associate with 
giving up the DB schemes guaranteed benefits. And it said that the business venture had a 
high risk. The risk of the business venture isnt really related to ordinary investment risk. And whilst Mr 
M may not have considered himself a high risk investor, he clearly wanted to take the risk of 
the business venture. So, I dont think that Clifton was wrong to classify the risk of the 
transfer, and Mr Ms attitude to risk, as high, in the way that it did. In this particular case.
I do accept that Mr M was in a very unusual, and probably vulnerable position. And I do hope 
things have improved for him in this respect. That said, I have to consider whether Clifton 
acted wrongly when it processed the transfer on the basis that Mr M was an insistent 
customer. 
I still dont think this is the case. Mr M has confirmed that he wanted to move his DB scheme 
due to the problems he had at work. And as Ive outlined above, he was the main driver of 
the transfer. And so, on balance, I still think he would have transferred in any event. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman