DRN-3771324
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs Ps complaint relates to a mortgage they held with Bank of Scotland trading as 
Halifax (BoS) and their request to be allowed to sell their property for less than the amount of 
the outstanding mortgage. This complaint is about being given two different reasons in 
March 2019 for why they were not able to access the shortfall sale process. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr M and Mrs P initiated discussions with BoS about selling their home for less than 
the amount of the outstanding mortgage. I wont go into detail about all the events, as I have 
already issued a final decision on the merits of the complaint about the majority of what 
happened. This complaint relates to two specific events and the differing explanations Mr M 
and Mrs P received at those times. 
The first event is a telephone conversation on 7 March 2019 where Mr M was told that, as 
they had a way to pay off the mortgage in full, BoS wouldnt consider the offer theyd 
received under the shortfall process. This resulted in a complaint being raised as Mr M didnt 
think that he was being given sensible answers and BoS wasnt thinking with a business 
head.
The final response letter that was issued in response to this complaint detailed the reason 
the offer hadnt been able to be considered under the shortfall sale process was because it 
hadnt met BoS criteria. BoS explained that any offer had to be obtained from the property 
being placed on the open market and the offer Mr M and Mrs P had received had come from 
them approaching a commercial buyer.
This aspect of the complaint was only raised during my consideration of the previous 
complaint and so it was referred to BoS. It set up a new complaint and issued a response to 
Mr M and Mrs P by email on 3 February 2022. BoS set out the key events from 2018 when 
Mr M first contacted it about a shortfall sale. It said that its response of 7 March 2019 hadnt 
been wrong, and acknowledged that Mr M and Mrs P hadnt been told before the final 
response letter that an offer from a commercial buyer couldnt be accepted for the shortfall 
process. However, it considered the offer of compensation made in March 2019 covered any 
poor service theyd received. 
Mr M and Mrs P didnt accept BoS response and referred the complaint to this service. They 
reiterated their concerns about what had happened from 2018. In addition, they complained 
about the complaint handling  that the address used on the final response letter was 
incorrect and that they hadnt been spoken to before the response was issued.  In addition, 
they said that the final response was full of inaccuracies and was incomplete in terms of a 
timeline. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr M and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. They made further comment about the events that 
had taken place, and the merits of their first complaint. They made no specific comment on 
the two pieces of information that this complaint related to. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 September 2022, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
As I detailed above, I have already considered Mr M and Mrs Ps wider complaint about the 
handling of their request for a shortfall sale and I issued a final decision on that complaint on 
8 March 2021 and I wont be commenting on it again. As such, this decision will deal solely 
with the matter of Mr M and Mrs P being given two different reasons in March 2020 for them 
being ineligible for a shortfall sale. 
At the time Mr M was told they couldnt access the shortfall process in his conversation with 
BoS on 7 March 2020 because he had the access to funds that would clear the entire 
mortgage. In the context of the conversation being had, I dont think this response was 
inappropriate or incorrect. I say this as Mr M had effectively told BoS that he didnt need to 
sell the property at a shortfall, which is the starting point for any shortfall process. 
In the final response, following addressing Mr M and Mrs Ps concern that they hadnt been 
given a definitive answer to whether the offer theyd received would be accepted, BoS 
explained that the offer would never have been acceptable. This was because it hadnt been 
received from openly marketing the property, but rather from Mr M and Mrs P approaching a 
commercial buyer. Again, when taken in context, I dont consider that it was inappropriate for 
BoS to explain this in the final response letter or that the reasoning was incorrect. 
There is no question that Mr M and Mrs P were given different reasons for why the shortfall 
process couldnt be accessed at different points. However, both reasons were correct in the 
context they were given, so I dont consider BoS did anything wrong or that Mr M and Mrs P 
were disadvantaged in any way. 
I am aware Mr M and Mrs P are unhappy with how the complaint was handled in that the 
complaint wasnt discussed with them before the final response was issued and they believe 
the final response contains inaccuracies and was incomplete. Our rules set out the matters 
that we can look at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying 
money by plastic card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider 
complaints about ancillary activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator 
requires financial businesses to do. However, that isnt enough to make it a regulated activity 
within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of activities set out in the legislation 
from which we derive our powers.
We are able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some very limited 
circumstances, for example, if were upholding the underlying complaint that a consumer 
believes was mis-handled. Here, however, I havent upheld the underlying complaint, which 
means I dont have the power to consider Mr M and Mrs Ps concerns about the ancillary 
issue; how BoS handled the complaint.
BoS acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision and confirmed that it accepted my 
findings.
Mr M and Mrs P didnt accept my conclusions. They repeated that they didnt have funds 
from the overseas property that would have enabled them to have cleared the entire 
mortgage with BoS  those funds would not have been available until the overseas property 
was sold at an unknown future date. As such, my conclusion that there was no starting point 
for a shortfall process was wrong. They also explained why they had approached the commercial buyer and made further comment on the matters covered by the previous 
complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Mr M and Mrs P have said about the funds available from their overseas 
property, but I have to review this matter based on what BoS understood of the situation at 
the time. The contemporaneous notes dont indicate that BoS was aware that it was likely 
that it would be a significant amount of time before the funds Mr M mentioned would become 
available. As such, I remain satisfied that the answer it gave at the time was appropriate in 
the context of the conversation being had.
Nor do I think that Mr M and Mrs Ps reasons for approaching the commercial buyer makes 
any difference to the fact that the provisional offer they received from it would not have fallen 
within BoS policy for shortfall sales. 
As such, my conclusions about this complaint have not changed.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr M and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 23 November 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman