DRN-2102001
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled her car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mrs S had an insurance policy with Advantage and unfortunately had to make a claim after 
the catalytic converter was stolen from her car on 3 March 2020.
Advantage contacted Mrs S on 4 March 2020 to explain that the repairs would cost more 
than the car was worth so it would be deemed a total loss, unless she could find a garage 
who would do a cheaper repair.
Advantage initially suggested Mrs S find a garage but they later agreed to do this for her.
Mrs S also said she wanted a courtesy car because she was unable to get to work and was 
losing money. Once the repairs had been authorised, on 6 March 2020, Advantage agreed 
to provide a hire car  but Mrs S said she missed out on three days of work, having to use 
her annual leave to take the time off.
Mrs S also said the matter had been very stressful and upsetting and she didnt feel 
Advantage had looked after her in the way shed expect when claiming. Mrs S was also 
unhappy with the hire car company asking her to pay £7 per day to remove the excess on 
that.
Advantage looked into Mrs Ss concerns and agreed the service couldve been better, they 
paid her £100 compensation. But Mrs S wanted to be compensated for the three days 
annual leave she had to take, for the £7 per day she had to pay and for her excess to be 
refunded.
An investigator here reviewed Mrs Ss case. He found that Advantage had handled the claim 
fairly. Mrs S didnt agree, she said she felt harassed by Advantage, that manufacturer parts 
werent being used and that an initial offer of £10 was an insult. Because of this, the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S but I dont believe Advantage needs to do anything more, thats 
not to say they handled the claim perfectly, but I believe the compensation offered is fair.
In my view Advantage handled the claim in a reasonable time frame. I think they ought to 
have offered Mrs S a total loss settlement as an alternative to repairs but, even if that had 
been done, she wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car. Thats because theyre not 
provided when a total loss settlement happens. I think its likely it wouldve taken at least as 
long to settle the claim in such a way, often settlements are negotiated, and it may have 
taken Mrs S some time to find a replacement car she was happy with too.
So, whether the car was repaired or a total loss its likely Mrs S wouldve been without a car, 
and unable to get to work, for at least a few days. Unfortunately, there will always be some 
inconvenience following an insurance claim, but that isnt necessarily the fault of the insurer. 
I think thats whats happened here, so I dont think Advantage needs to compensate Mrs S 
for missing work.
Mrs S also isnt entitled to a courtesy car unless her car is repaired by Advantages approved 
repairers. And the reason that couldnt happen was because theyd deemed the car to be a 
total loss. I appreciate that wasnt Mrs Ss choice, but I dont think she would have ever been 
entitled to a courtesy car, in this claim.
Despite that, Advantage arranged a hire car for Mrs S. They didnt need to arrange a hire 
car, but they did so to support Mrs S during a difficult time. So, I dont think Advantage 
should also be required to cover the £7 per day that Mrs S chose to pay for excess waiver.
I appreciate Mrs S would also like her excess to be repaid to her, but that part of the claim is 
always payable, so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require Advantage to refund it.
As I explained, I think Advantage couldve handled the claim better than they did, and 
explained how a total loss would work if Mrs S didnt want her car repaired. So, the claim 
experience shouldve been better than it was. I think Advantages payment of £100 
compensation for that is fair though. While Mrs S has mentioned the initial offer was an 
insulting £10, that was simply a gesture for one day loss of use of her car.
And I think for the most part Advantage were trying to help Mrs S. Ive listened to many calls 
and they were always polite and tried to find solutions. The question about the possibility 
using public transport wasnt mean in any way other than to see whether it could be a short-
term option, while the claim was finalised. When Mrs S explained why that wouldnt work for 
her, Advantage respected that.
I note Mrs S has also complained that parts used would not be manufacturer made. The 
policy allows for this, and Advantage explained that while not manufacturer made, they 
would be manufacturer approved, and would also be guaranteed by the repairing garage. I 
think thats reasonable.
Overall, while Advantage shouldve handled the matter better than they did, I think much of 
the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mrs S resulted from the initial damage to her car. 
So, while I can empathise with her experience, I think £100 is suitable compensation for 
Advantages part in that.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman