DRN-4324168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Bank of Scotland Plc trading a Halifax UK didnt do enough to 
protect them from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help 
them recover the money once theyd reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In July 2018, Mrs D was contacted on social media by someone claiming to be a well-known 
American actor, who Ill refer to as the scammer. Mrs D began to communicate with the 
scammer daily, exchanging details about their lives and families. The scammer told her he 
was getting divorced and that he had assets worth £350,830. He asked her to help him 
move the money so it wasnt part of the divorce settlement, in return for which hed give her 
10% of the money. 
Between 30 August 2018 and 25 September 2018, Mr and Mrs D made thirteen payments to 
the scammer totalling £14,185.18. The first eight payments were under £1,000, and on 17, 
20, 21, 24 and 25 September 2018, they made payments of £1,300, £1,000, £3,000, £3,800, 
and £2,000. The first six payments were made using a Visa debit card connected to their 
Halifax account, and the remaining payments were made via online transfer. Charges were 
applied to seven of the payments, many of which were international payments.
On 30 August 2018, Mr and Mrs D sent £209 to the scammer on the understanding it was to 
be the only payment. But he kept asking for money for various things such as shipping costs, 
delivery charges and fees to prove the money wasnt laundered. He put Mr and Mrs D in 
touch with his lawyer to help with the rest of the payments and said they might need to 
attend court to give evidence in his divorce proceedings.
They realised theyd been scammed when they went to the airport to collect a briefcase and 
it wasnt there. They tried to contact the lawyer and were told by the law firm he didnt work 
for them. They contacted Halifax but didnt receive a response. 
When Mr and Mrs D complained to Halifax, it refused to refund any of the money theyd lost. 
It said it would try to recover the money from the overseas bank they sent it to, but there was 
no guarantee of success due to the time that had elapsed.
It accepted they were victims of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam, which was 
covered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, but it said the code 
didnt apply because the payments were made before 28 May 2019. And it said it didnt 
intervene because the payments werent out of character for the account, so it had no 
reason do any further checks.
Mr and Mrs D werent satisfied and so they complained to this service. They said they didnt 
receive any scam warnings from Halifax, and they believed the scammer was who he said 
he was because they felt theyd got to know him and that hed provided a reasonable 
explanation as to why he needed the money.
They argued that if Halifax it had investigated the scam when they originally reported it, it 
might have recovered the money. And they said the payments were unusual because they 
only used the account to pay bills or to send money to personal accounts in their own name, 
so payments over £1,000 should have raised concerns and if they had any inclination that 
this was a scam, they wouldnt have gone through with the payments. 
Mr and Mrs Ds representative said Halifax should have intervened because they made 20 
payments to four new payees totalling £14,185.18. They argued Halifax should have 
intervened, especially when they paid £850 on 14 September 2018 as this was an unusually 
large amount, to a new payee. Further, the payments were made in quick succession, which 
was an obvious fraud pattern. 
 
They said Halifax should have contacted Mr and Mrs D and asked relevant probing 
questions and that it would have been apparent to a properly trained member of staff that 
they were falling victim to a scam, as its likely theyd have fully explained what was going on. 
It could then have provided a scam warning in response to which they would have chosen 
not to go ahead with the payments.
The representative explained Mr and Mrs D had held account for over 20 years and the 
payments represented a drastic change in activity, which should have raised concerns. 
Specifically, the account was used for payments to accounts in their own name or to pay 
bills, and there were very few payments over £100 in the months prior to the scam.
Halifax said Mr and Mrs D didn't do any checks prior to making the payments. It said Mrs D 
was contacted out of the blue by someone claiming to be a well-known actor and she didn't 
try to verify who she was speaking to or ask why she was making payments in 
circumstances where shed been asked to help the scammer move his money.
It said it was unable to evidence the warnings shed have been presented with due to the 
time that has passed, but the initial debit card payments werent unusual as they were 
similar to other payments from the account. It accepted the payments increased in value, but 
not to the extent that it should have intervened. And the payments werent completed in 
quick succession, with the balance was left healthy after each payment.
It reiterated the fact the payments were made before the CRM code and are a mixture of 
debit card and international payments, which aren't covered by the code.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She accepted Mr and Mrs D 
didnt use this account often and mainly for specified purposes or one-off payments. She 
also noted that after funding their account and sending the payments, it would often be left 
with a low balance. 
She said the payments dated 21 September 2018 and 24 September 2018 were the largest 
amounts, but she didnt think they were unusual as they followed the pattern of the previous 
payments. And as Mr and Mrs D didnt speak to or interact with Halifax, she didnt think it 
had missed an opportunity to intervene.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs D were warned by other money providers that the 
payments may fraudulent. She also noted Mrs D regularly questioned the scammer over the 
legitimacy of the transactions but continued to make payment despite her doubts. So, she 
didnt think a warning from Halifax would have made a difference to the outcome. Finally, 
she was satisfied Halifax did what it could to recover Mr and Mrs Ds money once it was 
aware of the fraud, but the money had already been removed.Mr and Mrs D have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. They 
accept they were given warnings but explained Mrs D was suffering from moderate 
depression and that the scammer had played on that vulnerability. They maintain Halifax 
should have questioned the payments as they were large international payments which were 
totally out of character.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs D have been victims of a cruel scam. I 
know they feel strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to them, 
so Ill explain why. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr and Mrs D say theyve fallen victim 
to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax has said the CRM code didnt apply 
in this case the disputed payments took place before the code came into force, and Im 
satisfied thats fair.
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to recover Mr and Mrs Ds 
payments when they reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, 
but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Halifax) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr 
and Mrs D).
However, the scheme sets the rules and there are specific time limits that must be applied.
Those rules state that a claim can be brought no later than 120 days than the date of the
transaction. In Mr and Mrs Ds case, the claim was referred to Halifax after this time, so this 
wasnt an option for Mr and Mrs D.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs D authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, they are presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded this was an impersonation 
scam. But, although Mr and Mrs D didnt intend their money to go to scammers, they did 
authorise the disputed payments. Halifax is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Halifax could have done more to prevent the scam from occurring 
altogether. Transferring funds to international accounts is a legitimate activity. However, 
Halifax had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr and Mrs D 
when they tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an 
account, Id expect Halifax to intervene with a view to protecting Mr and Mrs D from financial 
harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Halifaxs systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr and 
Mrs D normally ran their account, and I dont think they were. The first eight payments were 
under £1,000 and while I accept these payments were to a new payee, they were relatively 
low value, and I dont think Halifax needed to intervene.
However, on 21 September 2022, Mr and Mrs D transferred £3,000 to the scammer. And on 
24 September 2021, they transferred £3,800. These amounts were more than the previous 
disputed payments, and the other payments from the account in the months prior to the 
scam. However, by this time, Mr and Mrs D had already made several international 
payments, so this wasnt unusual. And while I accept £3,000 and £3,800 are large amounts, 
its generally accepted that people do occasionally make larger payments. And they are not 
so high that the value alone should have triggered an intervention from Halifax, particularly 
as the amounts had increased gradually over the course of three weeks. So, while I accept 
the previous use of the account was very established, I dont think these payments 
represented a sudden change to the use of the account or that they warranted an 
intervention from Halifax. So, I dont think it missed an opportunity to intervene.
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as well 
as the steps they took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr and Mrs 
D have lost money and the effect this has had on them. But for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think Halifax is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman