DRN-3781356
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy with the service it received 
surrounding a request it made to Santander UK Plc to provide a detailed calculation of how 
its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) repayments were being calculated. 
Gs complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr A. 
What happened
Mr A felt Santander were charging too much interest on Gs BBL payments and asked for a 
breakdown of the BBL payments to show how the interest was calculated. Santander 
explained they couldnt provide this information because of the nature of a BBL. Mr A wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint on Gs behalf.
Santander looked at Gs complaint. They confirmed they couldnt provide the detailed 
breakdown Mr A was wanting. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he 
referred Gs complaint to this service. One of our investigators then looked at this complaint. 
They didnt feel Mr A had been able to evidence that Santander had miscalculated interest 
on the BBL, and so they didnt uphold that aspect of Gs complaint. However, they did feel it 
would be reasonable for Santander to provide G with an informal breakdown of projected 
future monthly payment amounts, and so recommended that Gs complaint be upheld on 
that limited basis only. 
Santander did provide an informal breakdown of projected payment amounts. But Mr A 
wasnt happy Santander hadnt provided this information in a more formal manner  on 
headed paper  and wanted the bank to compensate G for the inconvenience incurred in 
seeking this information. So, the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt for this service to check how a BBL is calculated, although it is something I may have 
considered looking in to, if it had been the case that Mr A had been able to reasonably 
demonstrate that there may be in error in how interest was being calculated on Gs BBL.
But I dont feel Mr A has been able to do this in this instance. And I say this because its 
apparent that the calculation of interest Mr A described in Gs complaint submission to this 
service was based on incorrect premises. This was pointed out to Mr A by our investigator. 
But Mr A hasnt provided any counter-explanation as to whether he continues to believe  in 
consideration of the corrections to his initial misunderstandings  that interest has been 
calculated incorrectly on Gs BBL by Santander.
Accordingly, given the absence of any reasoned evidence provided by Mr A that the interest 
calculations on his BBL are incorrect, I see no reason to doubt Santanders calculations  
especially given that theres no suggestion that Santander are calculating the interest on Gs 
BBL in a way thats different to how they calculate interest on all other similar BBL accounts.
Mr A is also unhappy that Santander wouldnt provide a breakdown of the future monthly 
repayment amounts for Gs BBL. Our investigator felt Santander should be able to provide 
this information to G on an informal basis, and they recommended this complaint be upheld 
in Gs favour on that limited basis. This seems reasonable to me, and I note that Santander 
have now provided an informal breakdown of future monthly payments on the BBL to G.
Mr A feels this information should be provided formally, and that G should be compensated 
for the inconvenience incurred in having to chase this information. But I dont feel that there 
should be any requirement on Santander to provide this information formally as Mr A would 
like, and this is because, a workable description of Gs future payments has already been 
provided by Santander, meaning that Im satisfied that a fair outcome has already occurred. 
I also struggle to understand how G has been particularly inconvenienced here. I say this 
because the monthly BBL payment amounts dont have a wide degree of variance, with an 
overall trend downwards as the capital balance amount remaining decreases such that the 
interest calculated on that decreasing capital balance also reduces. Indeed, its notable from 
the breakdown of future payments that Santander provided to G that the total monthly 
repayment amount is £556 at the start of the informal schedule are reduces to £464  a 
reduction of £92  at the end of that schedule  which is approximately eight years later. 
It therefore seems clear it was never going to be the case that G would have ever been 
surprised by the monthly amount it needed to pay to the BBL, especially as the next 
monthly payment amount would always have been visible to G online. As such, I dont feel G 
was inconvenienced by not receiving the breakdown of projected payments from Santander 
to the degree that any apology or compensation to G is warranted regarding this point.
Putting things right
If they havent done so already, Santander must provide G with an informal breakdown of 
Gs projected future BBL payments. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman