DRN-2075333
The complaint
Mr T says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 2002. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think Mr T 
wouldve bought the policy if hed had better information about its cost and benefit. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely Mr T would have taken it 
out. 
The information AXA gave Mr T about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. I say this because although Mr T may have been told the cost was £1.00 per £100 of 
the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely he wouldve been told that the premium would be 
added to his store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely that AXA 
pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mr T would have to 
continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Mr T because at the point of sale he was entitled to full 
pay from his employer if he was off sick for six months, followed by half pay for the next six  
months. Hes also told us he had savings worth three months of his pay. So he doesnt 
appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given he had other ways to meet the store 
card repayments for a while without it.
AXA considers Mr T should provide evidence of the sick pay and savings he says he had. 
But Im mindful that these events took place many years ago, and I dont consider its fair or 
reasonable to expect Mr T to provide the evidence AXA is seeking.
I also note that in his original submissions to this service, Mr T said his sick pay was worth 
twelve months full salary, and that he had savings worth a similar amount. When the 
adjudicator made further enquiries with Mr T to clarify the exact amount of his sick pay and 
savings, the information he provided suggested his benefits and savings were lower than 
hed said in his original submissions.
Given Mr Ts employment history and age when he bought the policy, on balance I consider 
the revised sick pay and savings he mentioned were plausible. So I dont think its 
unreasonable for me to accept what hes said about the sick pay and savings hes referred 
to. 
And Im satisfied that the other means Mr T had to cover his store card payments means 
I dont think Mr T would have wanted to take out the policy if he had better understood its 
cost and limited benefit to him. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Mr T would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Mr T owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr T would have owed 
when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Mr T would have owed each month without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough to clear his balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr T paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T 
wouldve owed AXA something on his store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Mr T what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Mr 
T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Mr T in line with the instructions above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman