DRN-3776152
The complaint
Z complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unreasonably 
increased the premium on a life assurance policy and that the service it provided was poor.
Z is represented by Mr L.
What happened
Z took out a life assurance policy through a financial adviser. The lives assured were the 
directors of Z  Mr and Mrs L. The financial adviser entered Mr Ls date of birth incorrectly. 
When L&G became aware of this it re-calculated the premium and told his adviser by 
telephone. L&G subsequently sent a trust form in error to Z then a medical screening 
request, which led it to understand that the original quote remained valid.
Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the parties and 
Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal 
nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
When opening a policy for Z, L&G was provided with the wrong date of birth for Mr L 
by his financial adviser. This in turn meant that Mr L, on behalf of Z wasnt able to 
access the online account. It was fair and reasonable for L&G to re-assess the 
premium in the light of the correct information. I dont find that L&G was obliged, by 
law or otherwise, to honour the original quote based on the wrong birth date.
L&G was prepared to offer three options in response to the new information  accept 
a new premium, reduce cover and keep the same premium, cancel the policy and 
have a premium refund. Again Im satisfied that that the options were fair. The 
problem is that these options werent put to Z. The was a misunderstanding and L&G 
understood from Zs adviser that Z accepted the new premium calculated on the 
correct date of birth. There is nothing to suggest that Z wished to reduce the cover or 
cancel the policy instead.
However L&G wasnt obliged to communicate with both Z and the financial adviser. It 
communicated the new premium to Zs adviser by telephone. It understood that Z 
was aware of the change, which was incorrect. I dont find that L&G deliberately 
chose not to inform Z of the price increase.
L&G also sent out a trusts form in error to Z  which would have been confusing as 
the form had already been completed and appeared to confirm the premium based 
on the incorrect date of birth. Other correspondence was also sent to Z pending 
resolution of the premium issue. Again I find this would have been confusing. L&G 
recognised that the service had been less that Z could have expected and offered 
£275 in compensation. I think that sum fairly reflects the inconvenience caused to Z.
In this decision I am considering the actions of L&G and the impact they had on Z. 
L&G wasnt responsible for the original error and was entitled to revise the quote 
given. I can see that the service received has been disappointing and caused Z 
inconvenience. Im satisfied that the offer made in respect of the poor service is fair. 
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has made an offer to pay £275 to settle the 
complaint and I find this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay Z £275, if 
it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman