DRN-2476903
The complaint
Ms S complains about National Savings and Investments (NS&I) changing the way it pays 
winnings from premium bonds from paying warrants to requesting bank details for payments 
to be made direct. Ms S is concerned about the safety of her information. 
What happened
NS&I has made the decision to change the way it will be paying out any premium bond 
winnings. This change will mean it will no longer send out paper warrants but will pay prizes 
directly into bond holders bank accounts or the prize can automatically be reinvested. 
Ms S complained about the proposed change as she isnt happy to divulge her bank details 
or contact details over the phone or by using a computer at a public library. NS&I didnt 
uphold her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint either. She concluded the terms and conditions 
allowed NS&I to make the type of change it was. And she was satisfied Ms S didnt have to 
provide her details on-line in a public library as she could do this over the phone. 
Ms S has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, she has said 
that how winnings are paid to her should be her choice and under no circumstances will she 
be sharing her bank details or other information with NS&I. Ms S holds this view as she 
believes sharing her details in this way could leave her and other customers open to fraud. 
In support of her arguments, Ms S has questioned how winnings for bonds held by children 
are paid, and cited the lottery as paying winnings by cheque.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure Ms S and NS&I that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments made, I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety.
I understand Ms S feels very strongly about her complaint, but I can only ask NS&I to do 
something if I find that it has done something wrong. 
When Ms S took out her premium bonds she agreed to abide by the applicable terms and 
conditions. Those terms and conditions allow NS&I to make changes to the terms and 
conditions provided sufficient notice of the change is provided. I understand NS&I 
communicated its intention to change the way it paid winnings several months ago and has 
now extended the time before it withdraws paying prizes by warrant. Im satisfied this is 
sufficient notice. 
NS&I is allowed to make a commercial decision to change the way it pays winnings and that 
isnt something wed generally interfere with. I do understand the concerns Ms S may have 
about fraudsters accessing her information, but I think it fair to say that sending winnings 
through the post is equally, if not more so, open to abuse. Indeed, an institution like NS&I 
that handles money, will have fraud prevention and security measure in place, that arent 
applicable to money being sent through the mail. 
I note Ms S has referred to the winnings of children who hold premiums bonds. My 
understanding is that these bonds are usually overseen by a parent or guardian who will 
arrange the onward transmission of any winnings as has always been the case. I see no 
reason why that cant happen via a payment into a bank account. 
Ms S has also argued that people winning large amounts on the lottery are paid by cheque 
and questions who would want £1 million paid directly into their bank account. Having looked 
at the lotterys terms and conditions, it is its discretion to pay winnings by cheque, bank 
transfer or direct credit. And I think most people would want that amount of money paid 
directly into their bank account rather than risk such a high sum going through the post and 
possibly getting lost or intercepted. I therefore find neither of these arguments persuasive. 
I accept Ms S is very unhappy with the situation. But Im not persuaded NS&I has done 
anything wrong and so I wont be asking it to continue sending any prizes Ms S might win by 
warrant. It will be for Ms S to decide whether to provide the information needed to enable the 
payment of prizes or invest her money elsewhere; a decision she is entitled to make. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman