DRN-1692418
 
The complaint
Miss O complains that Arrow Global Limited has unreasonably terminated a loan account 
and registered a default on her credit file.
What happened
Miss O took out a loan with a high street lender to help her pay for some professional 
qualifications. Following a number of missed payments, rescheduled and reduced payment 
agreements the loan was in arrears and the lender sold the debt to Arrow. 
The actions of the original lender are the subject of a separate complaint being considered 
by this service. This complaint focuses on Arrows actions after it purchased the debt.
When Arrow purchased Miss Os debt in July 2018 it has said she was already some way in 
arrears. And it has highlighted the original lender had issued a number of notices of arrears 
to Miss O to let her know how much she was behind in her repayments.
Following the transfer of the loan to Arrow, Miss O was making repayments to her loan 
above the contractual amounts. The majority of these payments were made on time. Arrow 
undertook a review of a number of loans it had purchased from the original lender, including 
Miss Os. Following this review, it issued a Notice of Default as Miss Os account was more 
than two payments in arrears. 
This notice explained Miss O had failed to pay in full the monthly payments on the loan as 
they became due, and this had resulted in the loan being £3,900 in arrears. It said she 
needed to clear the arrears by 9 April 2019 or further action would be taken, including the 
termination of the loan agreement and the consequent registering of a default with Credit 
Reference Agencies.
Arrow didnt receive the money to clear the arrears by the due date, so it terminated the 
agreement and sent notification of this on 10 April 2019. This prompted Miss O to complain 
to Arrow. She said she didnt receive the default notice and so wasnt aware the account 
might be defaulted. She also says she phoned Arrow to check on the status of her account 
and wasnt warned of this either.
It acknowledged it hadnt warned Miss O this might happen when she phoned as it was 
undertaking a review of a number of accounts at the time. And it said it wasnt clear hers was 
one of those that had been defaulted. It apologised for this oversight but was satisfied it had 
acted fairly and in line with the terms of the loan agreement.
Miss O remained unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator considered the 
evidence and concluded that Miss Os loan agreement was more than three months in 
arrears and so she thought Arrow had acted fairly in issuing the default notice. She also said 
she didnt think Miss O would have cleared the arrears in time even if she had received the 
default notice.
Miss O remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I wont be upholding Miss Os complaint. I realise shell be disappointed 
by this decision, so Ill explain my reasoning.
Miss O has made a number of points and asked for certain evidence to be considered in the 
investigation. Im satisfied I have everything I need to reach the decision on this complaint 
and in doing so, Ill focus of what I consider to be the crux of the complaint which means Ill 
only comment on the things relevant to the decision I need to make. 
Miss Os loan was already more than £3,000 in arrears when Arrow purchased it from the 
original lender. Miss O had been sent a number of notifications  which she hasnt said she 
didnt receive - explaining this and detailing the amounts that were overdue. 
The original lender wrote to Miss O in November 2018 to let her know her loan had been 
purchased by Arrow and the terms and conditions of the agreement would remain 
unchanged. So, Ive considered the terms of the original loan agreement when reaching my 
decision on this complaint, while keeping in mind what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
The loan agreement states:
If you fail to meet the conditions of the Agreement including missing payments we 
may terminate this Agreement. This may result in our taking legal action against you 
to recover any amounts then due to us
Any such action could have a detrimental effect on your credit rating and affect your 
ability to obtain credit in the future from the bank and other credit businesses
Im therefore satisfied the potential impact of not keeping up contractual repayments was 
made clear to Miss O.
Given Miss Os loan was more than £3,000 in arrears  and this represented significantly 
more than two repayments  I dont think Arrow acted unfairly in issuing Miss O with a 
default notice.
Ive then gone on to consider Miss Os claim that she didnt receive the default notice and 
therefore didnt know she needed to pay the arrears on the loan. Ive looked at the default 
notice Arrow sent and Im satisfied it was sent to the same address Miss O provided for 
correspondence on this complaint and it was therefore addressed correctly. I also note this is 
the same address other correspondence has been sent to, and successfully received at, 
both before and after the default notice.
Where a business can demonstrate it has sent a default letter to a consumer at the correct 
address, Id generally say it has met its obligations to let the consumer know about what 
action they need to take. I cant hold Arrow responsible for post Miss O says she didnt 
receive, particularly where correspondence sent to the same address has been received 
safely on other occasions. So Im satisfied Arrow met its obligations when sending the 
default notice to Miss O in the post. 
As the arrears werent cleared by the date specified in the default notice, Arrow proceeded to 
terminate the account and register a default with credit reference agencies in line with what it 
said it would do in the default notice. Given what Ive explained above, I dont think it acted 
unfairly when it did this.
In summary, Im satisfied Arrow hasnt acted unfairly and I wont be asking it to do anymore. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman