DRN-1866883
The complaint
Mrs M complains that PSA Finance UK Limited failed to collect several direct debit payments 
on her hire purchase agreement. She also complains that when she ended the agreement 
she owed more than she had been led to believe.
What happened
In September 2017 Mrs M entered into a hire purchase agreement to fund a new car. Under 
the agreement she had to pay 47 payments of £210.82 a month and a final payment of 
£3,578 plus an insurance policy at £6.70 a month with a final payment of £113.72. 
She told PSA she had encountered some financial difficulties in November 2017 and again 
in January 2018. She explained she had to sell her house to pay her debts. She also said 
that her health was suffering which meant she had to take time off from work. 
In May 2018 PSA sent Mrs M an income and expenditure (i&e) form, to enable it to assess 
her financial situation. 
In January 2019 she informed PSA that she remained in financial difficulty and explained 
she needed the car for work purposes. She said she was receiving help from a debt advice 
organisation. 
The parties remained in contact and a payment plan was mentioned but the i&e form was 
needed. PSA then sent out two letters saying that the car would be repossessed due to 
arrears. These caused Mrs M some distress and when she told PSA it apologised and said 
these had been generated automatically. A payment plan was also offered.
Further conversations took place in March connected with failed direct debits and Mrs M said 
she wanted to rerun the car. Mrs M said her bank told her that the direct debit had been 
cancelled and they advised starting a new one. PSA suggested a standing order may be 
preferable.
In April the i&e form was received by PSA but in a call on 4 April 2019 Mrs M said the details 
needed to be amended. She also asked about options to end the agreement as she had to 
leave her job due to ill health. Voluntary Termination (VT) and Voluntary Termination (VT) 
were discussed. She was given a verbal estimate of £5,000 for VS. On 3 April 2019 PSA 
wrote to Mrs M with VT details which asked for a cheque for £4,126.52. 
Direct debits were not successful in April and May and on 20 May 2019 a pre-termination 
notice was issued which led to Mrs M talking through her options again.  VS and VT options 
were emailed to Mrs M who raised a query about VT. This was answered and on 30 May 
Mrs M signed a VS form. 
On 27 June Mrs M emailed to say the car was ready for collection and it was then sold at 
auction and the outstanding amount was calculated as £6,315.89. Mrs M complained that 
this was higher than she had been told.
PSA said that further arrears had built up due to non-payment of direct debits which had 
been set up correctly. It also included the June and July payments as the car hadnt been 
collected until July. PSA also said that Mrs Ms credit file would be adjusted so that the 
payment history wouldn't show the missed payments. However, Mrs M had moved and didnt 
receive these letters.
Mrs M was unhappy with the response provided by PSA and she brought her complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
She considered whether PSA had done what it should have done. She explained this service 
expected a business to act positively and sympathetically towards a customer who was 
struggling. She thought PSA had done so in its handling of her arrears and by offering 
payment plans. 
She didnt believe PSA had done anything wrong in handling the direct debits although she 
understood the frustration suffered by Mrs M. She did think the final response letter could 
have been more sympathetic, but it did offer to adjust Mrs Ms credit file for that period.
She noted PSA had explained that it may be advisable to end the agreement and discussed 
the options available with Mrs M, VT primarily but also VS of the agreement. They'd said that 
an affordable payment plan could be arranged to pay the outstanding amount.
She said that several letters issued automatically were alarming for Mrs M, but due to 
payments not being made and the i&e details not being received these had been generated 
automatically. 
PSA had told her that VT would cost £4,126.52 and in a separate letter she was told VS 
could cost in the region of £5,000. Our investigator appreciated that Mrs M may have found it 
a little confusing, but she thought PSA had given fairly clear information on the options 
available to Mrs M. She did think that an email dated 20 May hadnt been as clear as it could 
have been on the comparable outcomes of VT and VS. But she said there had been a 
number of conversations and overall she thought PSA had done enough to allow Mrs M to 
make a choice. 
She said that with the benefit of hindsight VT would have been a better option, but she 
couldnt hold PSA responsible for that. She also thought the calculation of the sum due was 
correct and included sums due up to July when the agreement was formally terminated.
Mrs M didnt agree and said she thought she had signed a VT form as well as the VS one. 
She felt the options hadnt been clearly described and PSA had confused her. She was now 
paying £6,000 for a car she didnt have. She thought she should have kept the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs M, but I dont consider I can uphold her complaint. I 
will explain why.
I appreciate she has been through a very difficult time financially and health wise. Making 
important decisions while under pressure isnt easy and I can understand her feeling of not 
being sure what to do and feeling she had to do something. When Mrs M took out the agreement her position was fine, but her family life changed and 
her outgoings increased such that she was struggling pay her bills. Obviously, PSA wasnt 
responsible for her situation, but it has a responsibly to treat Mrs M positively and 
sympathetically and I have to consider if it has done so.
To the lay person working out whether VT or VS is the best option is not always easy. With 
VT Mrs M knew how much she would owe and PSA told her the sum she would have to pay. 
VS couldnt be determined until the car was sold as that figure would have to be deducted 
from what she owed. As it turned out the auction price was such that VT turned out to be 
more expensive. Although there was a degree of confusion I think PSA did its best to make 
the two options clear to Mrs M and she did make a decision as to which one to take. PSA is 
not required to give advice to its customers, but to present the information so that an 
informed choice can be made. I think they did that.
I note that Mrs M says she would have been better to keep the car. However, I doubt that 
was an option. She was already in significant arrears and it is clear to me that sooner rather 
than later PSA would have repossessed the car and she would have been in a worse 
position. I think Mr M was right to make a decision when she did rather than delay matters 
and potentially increase her debt.
During the process Mrs M was sent several enforcement notices which she found 
distressing. I understand, but I also recognise that with increasing arrears PSA sought to 
take action to protect its position. 
In short, Mrs M found herself in a difficult financial situation due to events beyond her control 
and there was no easy solution to her inability to pay the money she owed PSA. PSA gave 
her sufficiently clear information and she made a decision.
I would add that PSA is still obliged to work with Mrs M positively and sympathetically in 
helping her repay the money she owes.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman