DRN-2703694
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund all of the money he lost after falling 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
On 21 March 2020, Mr K saw a used Range Rover Evoque advertised for sale by a private 
seller on a social media online marketplace. The seller said the car was registered in the UK, 
free of finance and in excellent condition for its age with a full service history and low 
mileage. 
Mr K explains that he had used this marketplace before successfully to buy other items. 
As he was interested in the car, he contacted the seller. The seller told him that they had 
recently relocated abroad and had found the car to be unsuitable as it was a right hand drive 
model. The seller explained they had tried to sell the car locally but there had been no 
interest, so they had decided to advertise it for sale back in the UK. The seller explained that 
the car was currently in storage abroad, but the logistics company handling shipping and 
payment would be able to deliver the car anywhere within the UK. 
The seller told Mr K that the final price would be £6,840 including shipping and all 
transaction related fees. She explained that Mr K would need to pay the logistics company 
directly and that he would have a 10 day inspection period where he would be able to get a 
full refund if he wasnt satisfied with the cars condition. 
Mr K asked the seller for the cars registration number. He explained that he checked the 
details of the vehicle on the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency website and checked the 
cars MOT history, along with a basic HPI check which came back clear. Mr K also explained 
that he checked the status of the logistics company on Companies House and visited its 
website which he says felt authentic.
On 6 April 2020, Mr K used his online banking to make a payment of £6,840 to the details 
hed been given for the logistics company. He was expecting the car to be delivered on 
13 April 2020. 
Mr K has explained he was aware that the car was advertised at a great price but he did 
not think it was concerning in all the circumstances. He suggested that there has been a 
general drop in the price for diesel cars and pointed to the planned extension of Londons 
low emissions zone to support this. He highlighted that he thought the seller was motivated 
to sell for their own personal reasons. Mr K suggested that he has been able to obtain some 
very good deals in the past by being in the right place at the right time. He referred to 
securing substantial discounts online for goods and services in the past and suggests that 
he has an eye for getting a bargain.
Unfortunately, on this occasion Mr K was dealing with fraudsters. He didnt receive the car 
and was unable to make any further contact with the seller or the logistics company. 
When Mr K realised hed been tricked, he contacted the bank and Action Fraud for help. 
HSBC contacted the receiving bank but was unable to recover any of the money Mr K had 
sent. It also considered whether it ought to refund Mr K for his loss.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case. 
When HSBC considered the matter, it made an offer to refund 50% of the amount Mr K lost. 
It said he could have done more to check if it was a genuine sale, such as inspecting the car 
in person and checking its logbook to ensure it matched the vehicle and the seller. 
It suggested that Mr K could have asked the shipping company he believed he was dealing 
with to take payment another way, such as by a credit or debit card. Mr K brought his 
complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with HSBCs decision. He thought HSBC should 
have refunded all of the money hed lost. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and recommended it be upheld. She 
concluded that HSBC should have fully reimbursed Mr K under the CRM code. She did not 
consider HSBC had been able to establish that Mr K did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing he was making a legitimate payment. She explained that Mr K had no reason to be 
suspicious of the shipping company and pointed out that the checks hed made into both the 
vehicle and the logistics company showed no anomalies. She was persuaded that Mr K did 
enough to ensure he was purchasing a genuine vehicle and communicating with a genuine 
seller. 
HSBC responded to say it strongly disagreed with our investigators position that Mr K had a 
reasonable belief that the payment was for genuine goods and that the person with whom he 
was transacting with was legitimate. It said he should rightly bear some responsibility for his 
loss. It felt Mr K had failed to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect himself 
from fraud. 
It suggested Mr K had failed to carry out adequate research as to the appropriate valuation 
for the car and suggested that the price was unrealistically low and well below market 
value for this particular model. It pointed out that even in poor condition the vehicle should 
be worth in the region of £12,000. It suggested Mr K was blind to this information in his 
desire to secure a bargain. It pointed out that Mr K had not undertaken any checks on the 
seller and the steps he had taken were not sufficient to show the purported seller had 
ownership of the car. It concluded that Mr K did not meet the requisite level of care  or that 
he was grossly negligent in his actions and beliefs. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the full £6,840 Mr K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
I understand Mr K has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£3,420) by HSBC. 
In the circumstances, HSBC should refund the remainder of the money he lost. 
The payment was made from Mr Ks current account. It is not clear if or when Mr K 
would have used the money to buy a different car. As is not clear how he would have 
used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, HSBC should 
pay interest on the remaining amount it should have refunded at 8% simple per year 
from the date it partially declined his claim to the date of payment.
Ive carefully considered the banks representations about whether Mr K had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transfer was for a legitimate purchase. But they do not persuade me 
to reach a different outcome. In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr K failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code. And, for completeness, Im also satisfied that Mr K did not act with gross 
negligence.
In reaching this decision, Ive had particular regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Mr Ks thoughts 
and actions. This was a sophisticated scam. The fraudsters cloned a genuine advertisement 
and a genuine logistics company. Ive seen copies of the messages Mr K exchanged with 
the fraudsters and they look and feel how genuine interactions of this nature typically would. 
This makes it much more difficult for the average consumer to obviously spot that they arent 
interacting with a legitimate seller. 
HSBC has placed a lot of emphasis on the price of the car and how it was self-evident that 
the price of the Vehicle was too good to be true. I can appreciate - especially with the 
knowledge that this later transpired to be a scam - that the advertised price for this particular 
car was considerably below what a buyer might typically expect to pay for it. And I accept 
that a low price can be an indicator that a situation is not what it seems. But I think HSBC 
needs to consider the price of this car in the wider context of the situation as Mr K 
understood it to be at that time. 
Mr K found the car advertised on an online marketplace. Marketplaces are an increasingly 
common way for private sellers to sell items they no longer want, use or need. The seller can 
set a price that they are comfortable with, which doesnt necessarily have to be the items 
market value. A seller might well be motivated to accept a lower offer than what an item 
might typically be worth if they need a quick sale.
That being said, the sellers price was a considerable reduction compared to the expected 
market value. But Mr K has explained why he thought the overall situation was plausible. 
Hes said the fraudsters story about relocating and struggling to sell the car made it look like 
they were desperate to sell quickly. Mr K thought the sellers situation sounded credible and 
I dont think this was unreasonable of him. 
Im also mindful that Mr Ks decision to proceed with the deal was not based on price alone. 
He was in regular communication with both the seller and the logistics company and those 
interactions did not raise any concerns. Having seen copies of the correspondence Mr K exchanged, I think it was reasonable for 
him to think he was dealing with a genuine seller and logistics company. 
Mr K also checked details of the car on official government websites, and on a vehicle data 
website. HSBC has seen copies of the information Mr K obtained from the checks he made 
and the bank does not dispute that the results he obtained were consistent with the 
information hed been given by the fraudster. 
HSBC has indicated that it considers the checks to have been too basic as they only 
confirmed the cars existence and were insufficient to confirm the purported sellers 
connection to the car. It has suggested Mr K should have checked the cars logbook to 
ensure that the purported seller had ownership of the vehicle and checked the cars 
identification number to ensure there were no irregularities.
HSBC has far superior knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like so its not 
surprising that it can think of further steps and checks that Mr K could have taken to try and 
protect himself. Mr K has explained that he proceeded with the transaction after being 
satisfied with the communication with the seller and after hed undertaken his own research. 
People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think Mr K took reasonable and 
appropriate steps to try and protect himself before making the payment. The fact that the 
bank can think of additional things Mr K could have done does not mean that he did not do 
enough. Im also mindful that HSBC ought to be aware that fraudsters often use details of 
genuine vehicles so that even further checks arent guaranteed to show up concerns. 
Mr K has said that he is frustrated that HSBC expected him to do more given that he 
checked what he could, especially as the sale took place during the global pandemic 
lockdown so the banks suggestion that he should have inspected the car in person was not 
feasible. Hes said that he feels saddened by the experience and that he did what he could 
in good faith. 
The CRM Code is designed to give people that have fallen victim to an APP scam the 
confidence that they will be reimbursed if they have acted appropriately. In all the 
circumstances of this complaint, I am not persuaded that Mr Hs failure to make the 
additional checks that HSBC believes he could have done, or actions he could have taken, 
should have led it not to fully reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code. 
Overall, at the time Mr K made the payment, Im persuaded he had a reasonable basis for 
believing that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services and the person with whom he transacted was legitimate. 
Putting things right
Ive decided that Mr K met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code and ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded. I therefore direct HSBC to pay Mr K:
the remainder of the money he lost as part of the scam - £3,420  within 28 days of
receiving notification of his acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly
deductible) from the date HSBC declined Mr Ks full claim under the CRM to the
date of settlement.My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint about HSBC UK Bank Plc.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman