DRN-2739158
The complaint
Ms R complains that Revolut Ltd has been unable to trace a payment she made to her
account.
What happened
Ms R says she sent money to her Revolut account via a business I will call P in December
2019. She says her old bank account details were saved on her P account and so the
money didnt reach her Revolut account. Ms R says she has asked Revolut to find and
return her money, but it hasnt. She says P has told her there is nothing it can do. She would
like the money - £762 refunded and says it is an offence to have an open account in her
name without her knowledge.
Revolut says it told Ms R in March 2019 that her account details were changing as it no
longer worked with a support company I will call PT. It says Ms R must have known that as
she used the new account details and says it was her responsibility to check the account
details before sending the money from P. Revolut says it doesnt have a business
relationship with PT and so has no way of checking if it received the money or returning it. It
says Ms R needs to go back to both P and PT.
Ms R brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought Ms
R had been told about the account change but wasnt told what could happen if the old
details were used. And didnt think Revolut had done enough to help Ms R or find her
money. The investigator recommended Revolut should ask PT to find the money and if it
could not then refund it and pay Ms R £100 compensation.
Ms R accepts that view but Revolut does not and says it isnt responsible for what took place
and cant help any further.
My provisional view
I have come to the provisional view that I didnt uphold this complaint.
I said I was satisfied that Revolut told Ms R in around March 2019 that her account details 
were changing, and I also thought she must have known that as I could see she used those 
new details. I said the problem was caused by her account with P which had saved her old 
account details.
 I thought it was Ms Rs responsibility to check those details and make sure they were
correct and that Revolut would not have known that Ms R had saved incorrect details.
I appreciated the investigators view that Revolut could have done more to warn Ms R about
using the old account details. But I thought it ought reasonably to have been obvious that by
using old account details, that there would be a risk that the money would not find its way to
the correct account. And I thought in any event, even if Revolut had warned Ms R about the 
risk of using the old details, this was likely to have been a mistake and Ms R didnt realise 
the account details were the previous ones. So, I didnt think any warning would have 
avoided this situation.
I thought provisionally that as Revolut no longer has a business relationship with PT then its
impossible for it to trace the money or ask PT to return it to Ms R. I was satisfied that Revolut
doesnt have the money and it cant be responsible for the actions of a separate business
entity.
I appreciated Ms R is without a significant amount of her money and I said I hoped Revolut 
would consider asking PT to look into the location of this money. I accepted Revolut cant 
force PT to look into matters but equally I couldnt see why it couldnt ask it on a voluntary 
basis to try and help one of its customers. I also thought Ms R would need to go back to both 
PT and P as they are the businesses involved in this transaction.
Overall my provisional view was that this was a transaction authorised by Ms R and that the
money didnt reach Revolut. In those circumstances I didnt think Revolut made a mistake or
acted unfairly by telling Ms R that it couldnt help her in the return of the money.
Ms R has replied to my provisional decision and says she has found the e-mail from Revolut 
telling her about the change to the account details but says it ought to have closed the 
account to prevent this sort of situation taking place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view that I reached in my provisional 
decision.
I appreciate Ms R says that Revolut ought to have closed her account. But I dont think it 
was or could be responsible for another businesss decision. I also dont think Revolut could 
have closed the account and that it told Ms R not to use the old account details.
I made clear in my provisional decision that I hoped Revolut would ask PT to look into 
matters, but I think Ms R will need to take up her complaint with PT and P.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman