DRN-2342627
The complaint
Mrs Cs complained that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) settled liability for an accident claim 
under her husbands motor insurance policy on a 50/50 basis - even though both she and 
the other party had agreed the accident was the other partys fault. 
What happened
Mrs Cs husband had a motor insurance with UKI.  Mrs C was a named driver under the 
policy.
In early 2020, Mrs C reversed out of her driveway.  She says that she was clear of her 
driveway and stationary in the road, when her next door neighbour reversed out of her drive 
at speed and hit Mrs Cs car.  The neighbour immediately apologised to Mrs C and said the 
accident was her fault. 
A few days later, Mrs C reported the accident to UKI.  UKI took the details over the 
telephone and explained that theyd record the matter as a partial liability claim while they 
investigated.  Theyd make a final decision on liability when theyd done that. UKI noted that 
Mrs Cs neighbour had admitted liability to her, but said theyd still need to investigate before 
reaching their own conclusion.
About two months later, UKI advised Mrs C that they were going to settle liability for the 
claim on a 50/50 basis - even though her neighbour had admitted liability to Mrs C.  UKI said 
it was for her neighbours insurer, not her, to accept liability.  And her insurer hadnt 
accepted liability, but had agreed a 50/50 split.
Mrs C didnt accept UKIs decision and complained.  UKI investigated her complaint but 
didnt change their opinion that the claim should be settled on a 50/50 basis.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator considered the matter but didnt think 
that UKI shouldve done anything differently.  He explained that its not our role to decide 
who was responsible for the accident  its to consider whether UKI have handled the claim 
fairly and reasonably.  And his view, based on the evidence hed seen, was that UKI had 
done that.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
As our investigator explained to Mrs C, its not the role of our service to decide whos 
responsible for an accident.  So, whilst I can see from what Ive read Mrs C feels strongly 
that her neighbour was responsible, Im not looking at that question. 
What I am looking at is whether UKI dealt with Mrs Cs claim fairly and reasonably and in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions.
Although Mrs C has a firm view about how the claim shouldve been settled, her policy 
includes a term which says:
We are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in your name, or 
in the name of any other person covered by this policy.
That means its ultimately up to UKI how to resolve the claim.  They were entitled to settle it 
on a 50/50 basis.  And they dont need Mrs C to agree with their conclusions.  
But UKI should base their decision on the available facts and evidence.  So Ive considered 
whether UK theyve done that. 
Ive listened to Mrs Cs first telephone call to UKI.  During that call, UKI told Mrs C that theyd 
record the accident as a partial liability claim while they investigated the circumstances.  
Although they noted Mrs Cs neighbour had admitted liability to her, UKI said theyd still need 
to investigate.  And they advised Mrs C that if her neighbours insurer disputed liability, it was 
unlikely theyd be able to prove Mrs C had reversed first and was stationary on the road 
when she was hit.
Im satisfied from this that, even though Mrs C was adamant she wasnt at fault, UKI made it 
clear from the start that theyd do their own investigation  and that they wouldnt necessarily 
agree with Mrs Cs view about liability.
UKI decided to settle on the basis of a 50/50 split in liability because both cars were 
reversing.  So they said both caused the accident.
Ive considered this.  In her first call to UKI, I heard Mrs C say that both cars were reversing 
out of their driveways.  So its clear that UKI got this information from her. 
Mrs C also said to UKI that shed finished reversing and was stationary when she was hit.  
Ive seen from UKIs notes that they considered this.  But they told Mrs C that there was no 
way to prove this was right, rather than what shed first told them  so it didnt change their 
view on liability.  I think thats a reasonable conclusion for UKI to draw from what theyd been 
told.
Ive seen that UKI did try to get more evidence to support Mrs Cs position.  They asked her 
husband (whod watched Mrs C reversing) to complete a witness questionnaire.  But when 
they reviewed the completed questionnaire, they saw hed said both parties were reversing  
and didnt refer to Mrs C being stationary.  So I think it was reasonable that the witness 
questionnaire didnt change UKIs view on liability.
Mrs C places great weight on the admission her neighbour made to her.  Ive thought very 
carefully about that.
Its clear from what Ive seen that, regardless of what her neighbour said to Mrs C, her 
insurer disputed liability on the basis both parties were reversing.  UKI explained to Mrs C 
that there was no way they could prove what her neighbour had said to her  so they didnt 
think the other insurer would ever accept liability.
After the two insurers had agreed to split liability, Mrs C sent UKI a text shed had from her 
neighbour admitting liability.  UKI considered that and forwarded it to the neighbours insurer to see if it changed the situation.  It didnt.  And UKIs notes show they didnt think this 
outweighed the other evidence they held.   
Im satisfied from everything Ive seen that UKI did investigate the circumstances of Mrs Cs 
accident thoroughly.  Its clear they considered Mrs Cs position and sought evidence to 
support that.  But they came to the conclusion that they didnt have sufficient evidence to 
press the neighbours insurer to accept full liability.  I think that conclusion was reasonable.  
So I dont think they shouldve dealt with Mrs Cs claim any differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about UK Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 February 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman