DRN-4177517
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund him a transaction 
he says he made under duress as part of a fraud.
What happened
As both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, Ive summarised them 
briefly below.
Mr P was travelling in a vehicle abroad when he was stopped by purported officials. Mr P 
was informed that hed been driving on toll roads without a valid permit and that hed have to 
pay for a valid permit and an additional fine.
Mr P says that he was sceptical about the request to pay as the officials refused to provide 
identification when asked and produced no evidence to support their claim Mr P had been 
driving on a toll road. However, Mr P says that the officials had his identity documents and 
refused to provide them back until the permit and the fine were paid for; he was also 
threatened with arrest. So, under duress, he says he paid the amounts requested.
After the event, Mr P conducted some research. As a result of this, and the behaviour 
displayed by the officials, he was persuaded he was the victim of a fraud and reported the 
matter to Halifax. 
Halifax looked into Mr Ps claim and agreed to raise a chargeback for the permit purchase of 
£25.96. However, as Mr P entered his PIN when paying the fine of £129.79, it said it was 
unable to raise a chargeback claim for this transaction.
The merchant defended the chargeback setting out that the transaction was for a legitimate 
charge. But as a goodwill gesture, Halifax refunded Mr P the lower amount, rounding up the 
reimbursement to £26.
Mr P remained unhappy with Halifaxs decision as he felt he should have had better 
protection from fraud, so brought his complaint to our service for an independent review. An 
Investigator considered the evidence and testimony provided by both parties but didnt think 
Halifax had made an error.
The Investigator concluded that Mr P likely hadnt been victim of a fraud and therefore wasnt 
liable for a refund. He also agreed with Halifaxs position that a chargeback wasnt likely to 
succeed for the same reasons.
Mr P remained unhappy with the Investigators assessment and conclusions, so the matter 
has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was Mr P likely victim to a fraud
Mr P has provided testimony of the experience he faced when stopped by authorities and 
submitted evidence of the receipt of payment given after he made the two payments subject 
to this dispute.
While Mr P feels that the individuals who stopped him were taking advantage of him, as they 
refused to provide both evidence of their identity and the rules or laws that he breached, the 
testimony and receipt provided suggests he was likely charged a legitimate fee and fine.
The receipt provided to Mr P for the payment and penalty fees appear to be professional and 
legitimate paperwork that is endorsed with an official stamp of the issuing authority. 
Translation of the document reveals that if a person who is not a resident of the country is 
issued the fine, they will be required to pay the fine immediately. It also sets out that 
temporary confiscation of identity documents may be invoked while pursuant of enforcement.
This falls in line with Mr Ps version of events at the point he was issued the fine and was 
refused the return of his documents. Mr P has also acknowledged that the officer conducting 
the stop worn adorned uniform to indicate they were a legitimate enforcement official, and 
the receipts provided match the amounts paid by Mr P on his card.
Furthermore, the payment appears to have been paid to a legitimate merchant that has 
defended the chargeback. The toll fees appear to match those charged in the geographical 
location Mr P was in at the time. And I find it unlikely a person intent on defrauding Mr P 
would have stopped at the legitimate fee value for those tolls, or likely would have taken the 
payment in cash for their personal gain rather than a card payment to the legitimate 
authority.
Taking all the above into account, the evidence would suggest that Mr P paid for a legitimate 
permit and fine to a legitimate enforcement official. And while Mr P might be unhappy with 
this ticket and fine, it isnt for Halifax to dispute this penalty fare on his behalf. This is a 
matter he should have taken up with the relevant authority if he disagreed with it. Halifax 
merely had Mr Ps word against the official authorities.
Did Halifax act fair and reasonably
Despite Mr P producing evidence to suggest hed received a legitimate fine for failing to pay 
for driving on a toll road(s), it still decided to raise a dispute on the lower amount paid. And 
despite receiving a challenge from the merchant defending the transaction and evidencing 
the legitimacy of it, it still went ahead and refunded Mr P the smaller transaction, rounding it 
up to nearest pound, as a goodwill gesture.
Mr P has expressed his concern that he was charged for a 30-day pass for the toll road(s) 
where there was one available for a day instead. But Halifax has already refunded Mr P for 
this transaction, and he is therefore no longer at a loss for it. Furthermore, Halifax carried out 
this action despite having enough information to hold Mr P liable for it. 
Mr P has also asked Halifax to dispute the legitimacy of the fine he was charged as he feels 
hes not been provided sufficient evidence to support his alleged violation. But applying this 
principle, Mr P himself has been unable to evidence that hed not violated any rules or law. 
The documents he was issued by the authorities sets out in detail his alleged violation, albeit 
in another language, and this generally correlates to the testimony Mr P has provided.
Ive also considered if any other avenues were available here for Mr P to obtain a 
reimbursement from Halifax for the funds paid. But as I see no evidence here of a breach of contract or a misrepresentation, I also find it unlikely Mr P would have been successful in 
any claim. 
As Ive highlighted previously, Mr P was able to appeal the fine issued with the relevant 
authority, and I find this was likely the more reasonable option here rather than a dispute 
through his credit provider.
For all the above reasons, I find Halifax acted fairly in the circumstances when dealing with 
Mr Ps concerns.
Claim handling issues
Mr P has expressed some frustration in the mixed messaging he received from Halifax 
throughout the dispute. And I can understand from the evidence provided why he might have 
felt this. But the circumstances around this complaint are unusual and complex. 
Mr Ps initial claim did outline some reasonable and legitimate concerns with the actions and 
behaviour of the authorities concerned. But after hed provided the receipt of the fine issued 
and the initial chargeback dispute was raised and defended, circumstances had changed as 
Halifax discovered that the payments were likely made for legitimate purposes.
This would have seen a change in stance in the way Mr Ps claim was handled and naturally 
resulted in conflicting information in the way processes are followed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman