DRN-3356608
The complaint
Mr G has complained about Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd. He isnt happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under his motor warranty.
What happened
Mr G took out a warranty with Fortegra and a short while later he made a claim under the 
policy as he had a problem with his gearbox. But when Fortegra looked into the claim it 
turned it down. This was because the repair work was done before authorisation was given 
and it believed the fault was present before the policy was taken out. 
As Mr G wasnt happy about this he complained to Fortegra. He thought it could have 
inspected his car earlier and said the problem wasnt pre-existing. But Fortegra maintained 
its position, so Mr G complained to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought 
Fortegra had acted reasonably as it got his car inspected by an engineer. But as the repair 
had already been undertaken the engineer couldnt be sure that the remaining parts he 
inspected came from Mr Gs vehicle or that the problem wasnt pre-existing. So, she didnt 
think Fortegra had acted unfairly.
As Mr G didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
When our investigator sent Mr G a redacted copy of the inspecting engineers report he 
commented that he could see why Fortegra came to its conclusion in declining the claim. 
But he did highlight that the problem wasnt pre-existing and felt that the mileage outlined by 
the engineer (showing the car had only been driven a short distance after the policy was 
taken out before this claim was submitted) might not be correct. He also said that hed been 
driving the car for a while but hadnt changed over ownership as it was previously owned by 
a family member.
One of the key issues here is that Mr Gs garage repaired the car before it was inspected, 
and the work authorised which has clearly hampered Fortegras position. The inspection 
report clearly highlights that the car had already been fitted with replacement parts before 
inspection. And the terms and conditions of the policy clearly highlight that warranty work 
should not commence without authorisation and that the claim wont be covered if it does. I 
know Mr G felt there was some delay by the business, so he had to get on with the repair. 
But I think Fortegra made it clear to him the consequences of this and Mr G seems to 
understand this now he has seen the report.
Plus, the engineer has highlighted in his report that the damage was most likely pre-existing 
and that the car had only done a few miles after the policy was taken out before the claim 
was made. I know Mr G has said that he had the car before this, he just hadnt transferred 
the car into his name, and that the problem wasnt pre-existing. But given the fact the car 
had done so few miles after the warranty was taken out and the claim made I think its likely, 
on balance, that the problem with his gear box was pre-existing. 
Given all of this, I dont think Fortegra acted unreasonably in turning down the claim and I 
wont be asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman