DRN-3279122
The complaint
Miss C, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
Here is a brief table of the approved loans for Miss C. Morses references differ to the ones 
we have been using but for continuity I have used the references used by our adjudicator  
loans 1 to 4. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 19/12/2014 02/12/2015 52 £1,000.00 £30.00
2 02/12/2015 08/12/2016 52 £1,000.00 £30.00
3 08/12/2016 07/12/2017 52 £1,000.00 £35.00
4 07/12/2017 22/10/2020 52 £1,000.00 £35.00
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint after it had been referred to the Financial 
Ombudsman and said that Morses ought not to have approved loan 4.
Morses disagreed and gave reasons why. Our adjudicator wrote again to reinforce his first 
letter of opinion but the unresolved complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Our adjudicator did think that this applied 
to Miss Cs circumstances. 
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss C didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a 
decision about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Miss C had with 
Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loan she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loan 4 because I dont 
think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morses lending history 
with Miss C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the circumstances of Miss Cs case, I think that this point was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because at this point she had been indebted to Morses for almost three years. And 
Miss Cs first loan was for £1,000 and loan 4 was for £1,000 as well. This was the same sum 
but taken regularly. Morses explanation was that it assumed it was for Christmas spending 
but this had not been checked and by loan 4, I think Morses needed to cease relying on 
what Miss C had been telling it.  
And in any event, I think by this point  after 36 months of permanently being indebted to 
Morses  it ought to have known that Miss C was likely borrowing to meet an ongoing and 
increasing need. And this indicates her problems may have been worsening. 
So, because of these factors, Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss 
Cs indebtedness was unsustainable. 
My view is that Miss C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Morses. 
Loan 4 was taken out three years after Miss Cs first. And it was for the same amount. 
Miss C had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period. The repayment for loan 4 represented a significant portion of Miss Cs weekly income, considering the term of the loan.
I appreciate that Morses feels that the checks it did were enough to show the lending was 
affordable. But I think the lending pattern itself shows the loans werent sustainable. I think 
that Miss C lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing at loan 4 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit over an extended period.
the length of time over which Miss C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Miss Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 4 and Morses should put things 
right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss C at loan 4 as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss C loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should pay Miss C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Miss Cs borrowing for loan 4 means any information recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from her credit file. If Morses 
has sold any of the loans Morses should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club 
PLC does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of the decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman