The complaint
Mr and Ms M have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms M took out the PPI in 1995 at the same time as arranging their mortgage. 
Although it was a joint policy, the policy only covered Mr M for accident, sickness and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms M disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms M say they were not aware that PPI had been added to their mortgage account. 
They say that, if they had known they had the policy, Mr M would have claimed on it in 2000 
when he had an accident at work which resulted in him losing his job.
Lloyds has provided evidence that Mr and Ms Ms mortgage ended on 15 May 2000. If Mr M 
had his accident later in 2000, that might explain why he wasnt able to claim on the policy. 
We asked Mr M for more information about the timing of his accident but didnt receive a 
response.
Ive seen a copy of their mortgage application form. There is a section headed 
MortgageSure, which was the brand name of the PPI. A question in that section asked if 
cover was required for accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment. There are yes 
and no boxes next to this question that could be ticked to either accept or decline the policy. 
The yes box has been ticked. They could have ticked the no box if they didnt want the 
PPI. I consider that Mr and Ms M would have known from the wording and layout of the form 
that they had a choice about buying PPI.
I have no doubt that Mr and Ms M have provided their genuine recollection of events. But the 
sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Ms Ms memory of 
events has faded. Based on the available evidence, I consider it is likely that Mr and Ms M 
DRN-1117807decided to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember 
doing so.
Lloyds advised Mr and Ms M to take out the PPI. Therefore, in recommending the policy to 
them, it needed to ensure that it met their needs. And from what I know of the couples 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
The policy provided cover for Mr M only. This seems appropriate as Ms M wasnt working at 
the time (she is described as a housewife on the mortgage application form) and so 
wouldnt have been eligible for the cover.
Mr M wouldnt have received any sick pay from his job. And the couple didnt have other 
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think they had a need for the policy and could 
have benefitted from it at what would have been a difficult time. A mortgage is a significant 
financial commitment and so it wouldnt be surprising if they had an interest in protecting 
their repayments.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information about the policy is it could have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr M wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I consider that Mr and Ms M had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I 
dont think that further information would have caused them to change their minds. So they 
arent any worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, so theres nothing 
Lloyds needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman