DRN-2392178
The complaint
Mr E complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKIL) increased his premiums every year for his 
household insurance policy and that hes been paying too much for the cover.
 
What happened
Mr E held household insurance with UKIL from 1988 until 2019 when he decided to take up 
a policy with another insurer, which Ill refer to as N in this decision. 
Mr E said his policy had automatically renewed each year with UKIL. And he said there was 
no discussion between him and UKIL as to the renewal price. From 1988 until 2019 Mr E 
said his premiums were subject to large increases, which he felt was unfair.
In 2019 Mr E decided to obtain a household insurance quote from N. N offered him a policy 
which was half the renewal price hed been quoted by UKIL and it agreed to fix the price for 
three years.
Mr E complained to UKIL that it had unfairly increased his policy premiums over the years. 
He felt it had taken advantage of his loyalty as a longstanding customer.
UKIL investigated Mr Es concerns and issued its final response to his complaint on 30 June 
2020. In its final response, UKIL said the renewal prices it had offered Mr E had been 
correctly calculated in line with its pricing structure based on the risk and level of cover hed 
previously requested. But it acknowledged it could have done more around the renewal date 
to discuss Mr Es policy with him to ensure he was satisfied with the policy it was offering to 
renew and its cost. And it offered to pay him £500 as a gesture of goodwill to recognise that 
omission. 
Being dissatisfied with UKILs response to his complaint Mr E referred it to our service. Our 
investigator assessed the information provided by UKIL and Mr E. But they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. They said UKIL had increased the premium gradually 
over the years with inflation from £151 in 1988 to £554 in 2019. They said this also took into 
account changes that had been made over the years. Overall, they were persuaded Mr Es 
premiums had been calculated correctly based on the risk presented and the cover provided. 
And they thought UKILs goodwill gesture was fair in all the circumstances of this complaint.
But Mr E didnt agree with our investigators view of his complaint and requested an 
independent review by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether UKIL has treated Mr E 
fairly during the time he held his policy. 
Its clear that Mr E feels UKIL overcharged him for the policies hes held since 1988. He feels 
hes been disadvantaged by auto renewing his policy each year. 
When considering whether UKIL has treated Mr E unfairly - I would need to satisfy myself 
that it had unfairly increased the cost of this policy over the years. 
Ive carefully reviewed the information UKIL has provided our service about the increases in 
Mr Es premiums since the policy started. Although the premiums increased from £151 in 
1988 to £554 in 2019, the increases have been fairly gradual year-on-year, as might be 
expected with inflation and the increases in Insurance Premium Tax. 
UKIL has explained that in 1988 Mr E was sold a standard policy during the time he was on 
cover. This policy was renewed each year until Mr E ceased to be a customer. And the only 
alternative product he could have purchased was a more expensive policy that would have 
provided a higher level of cover. This satisfies me that Mr E was not sold more expensive 
policies than were necessary at renewal.
I can also see that Mr Es policy was set up with a discount. This was a 10% discount and it 
was applied until 2012 when changes made by UKIL meant the discount ceased to apply.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Mr E contacted UKIL to discuss his policy renewal each 
year from the date of inception until 1997 when the policy automatically renewed. But there 
was no discussion between Mr E and UKIL about the renewal from 1997 until 2004. 
Thereafter, the records Ive seen show that Mr E made contact with UKIL to discuss his 
renewal in 2004, 2005 and 2013. He also contacted UKIL to make policy mid-term 
adjustments during 2002 and 2009.
I can see that when Mr E contacted UKIL, he notified it of changes to his circumstances  
such as increases to the level of cover he required, excess payment changes, house moves 
and changes to his security arrangements. This satisfies me that he was able to engage with 
UKIL over the years about his policy.
Ive seen evidence that when Mr E contacted UKIL and made changes to his policy the 
premiums were recalculated. In addition to price increases I can see UKIL applied loyalty 
discounts to reduce the cost of Mr Es policy. So, Im satisfied UKIL appropriately reviewed 
the cost of Mr Es policy during the times he made contact.
UKIL has told our service that it calculated Mr Es renewal prices in accordance with its 
pricing structure. And its said it calculates the premiums for its policies in line with the risk 
the customer presents and the cover it provides. 
The price of Mr Es policy has increased steadily over the years. I havent seen any 
significant increases or exceptional circumstances that have impacted on the premiums. And 
I think UKIL has calculated Mr Es premiums as it would for any other customer in his 
circumstances. 
Mr E has shared the cost of his policy with N with our service. He thinks the fact that this was 
half the price of his renewal quote indicates that UKIL has been unfairly increasing his 
premiums over the years. But the insurance market is very competitive. So, its not 
uncommon for new policies to be cheaper as a result of introductory offers in order to attract 
new customers. These discounts are usually removed following renewal of the policy, which 
then increases the cost of insurance in subsequent years. In addition to this, different insurers calculate premiums in different ways and their assessment of risk can vary too. So, 
the fact that Mr E found a cheaper policy elsewhere doesnt necessarily mean UKIL unfairly 
increased his premiums each year.
I appreciate that Mr E had been with UKIL for 31 years and that he feels its taken advantage 
of his loyalty. But I dont think that happened here. As hed engaged with UKIL over the 
years, I dont think it took advantage of his loyalty. And, based on the evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think UKIL increased the price of Mr Es premiums just because he didnt always 
engage at renewal. 
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, UKIL offered Mr E £500 to recognise 
that there were periods when it could have engaged more with him prior to renewing his 
policy. Its provided our service with a breakdown of that figure. And I can see our 
investigator has explained how that figure is made up.
UKIL has told us its £500 goodwill gesture was based on refunds of premiums from 2014 
onwards as this was the year following Mr Es last contact with it. I think thats fair because, 
as Ive already outlined, theres no evidence he contacted UKIL to discuss his policy after 
2013. And having considered how UKIL calculated the gesture of goodwill refund it offered 
Mr E Im satisfied the offer it made here was fair and reasonable. Im therefore not going to 
direct UKIL to increase that offer. 
My final decision
My final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. UK Insurance Limited has already made 
an offer to pay £500 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that that UK Insurance Limited should pay Mr E £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman