DRN-2411742
The complaint
Mrs M complains that TSB Bank plc provided her with poor service after a cheque deposit 
she made at a Post Office branch wasnt credited to her account.
What happened
Mrs M had a current account with TSB. She visited her local Post Office branch and 
deposited a cheque to her account with TSB using the envelopes provided. She says she 
was given a receipt and a reference number at the time. 
She noticed the cheque hadnt been credited to her account. So, she contacted TSB about 
this. It told her shed have to speak to the Post Office. She did that. But the Post Office told 
her it was up to TSB to contact TSBs liaison team to take the matter forward.
Mrs M complained to TSB. She said it wasnt acceptable for TSB to recommend that she use 
the Post Office and then refuse to accept responsibility when something went wrong.
TSB investigated her complaint. It said it hadnt received the cheque and that was the 
reason it hadnt been credited to Mrs Ms account. It said it wasnt its responsibility to trace a 
cheque it hadnt received. That was the reason it had referred her back to the Post Office. It 
agreed it had made an error when it told Mrs M it would put a trace on the cheque. It couldnt 
do that because it never received the cheque. So, it agreed to pay her £25 by way of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience and a further £6 for her costs.
TSB sent its final response letter on 15 October 2019. Mrs M wasnt satisfied, and she 
continued to complain to TSB. It sent her a further letter on 25 June 2020. It said it was 
confident it hadnt made a mistake and she would have to take the matter up with the Post 
Office.
Mrs M referred her complaint to our service in July 2020. Our investigator looked into her 
complaint. He said it was reasonable to expect TSB to have investigated what happened 
rather than directing Mrs M to the Post Office. He said he could see that TSB had an 
enquiries team which dealt with queries about Post Office services. But, Mrs M hadnt been 
told to contact that team.
Our investigator said there was no guarantee the cheque wouldve been found even if the 
enquiries team had been involved. But, because TSB hadnt followed its own processes, he 
said Mrs M had been inconvenienced. He thought TSB should pay her a further £100 by way 
of compensation.
TSB didnt agree. It said TSB had no record it ever received the cheque. The cheque hadnt 
been cashed and it said it was more probable it had been lost at the Post Office. It thought 
the compensation it had already paid Mrs M was fair and reasonable for whatd happened.
Our investigator considered what TSB had said. He didnt change his view. He thought TSB 
shouldve engaged with the Post Office when Mrs M raised the issue with it.
Because TSB didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, Id just point out that although Mrs M referred her complaint to our service 
more than six months after the date TSB had issued its final response letter, TSB told us it 
consented to our service looking into this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for Mrs Ms account. These include a section about 
Everyday banking at the Post Office. They explain that customers can pay in cheques at 
any Post Office providing they use a pre-printed paying-in slip and the TSB branded deposit 
envelopes available at the Post Office.
The terms and conditions also set out the processing times that will apply to cheques which 
are deposited in this way. There is a further statement which says:
Not near a TSB branch? You can pay in and withdraw money at any Post Office.
Mrs M says her local TSB branch had been closed. Thats why she decided to use the Post 
Office. And, I can understand why she thought it was reasonable to expect TSB to assist her 
if she experienced any issues after shed followed the steps set out in the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs M contacted TSB when the cheque wasnt credited to her account. 
TSB has an agreement with the Post Office which sets out the arrangements between the 
two parties. The Post Office told Mrs M that this agreement set out the procedure which 
should be followed when a deposit goes missing. TSB hasnt provided our service with a 
copy of the agreement. It has provided a copy of its process map for cases where there is a 
query about Post Office -missing deposits.
Ive looked at the process map. I can see that if the deposit has not been credited to the 
account and there is no apparent reason for that (such as the account having been closed) 
the case should be referred to TSBs Enquiries and Investigation Team. It creates a new 
case on its systems. The process map says that TSB will scan copies of any documentary 
evidence the customer has, such as a receipt from the Post Office, and upload this to the 
case file.
Once the file is uploaded, the process map indicates that the Post Office Enquiries Team will 
investigate the issue. There is a service level agreement with the Post Office Enquiries 
Team regarding the timescale to complete the investigation. The process map also states 
that the Post Office Enquiries team does not contact the customer directly. So, it is TSB 
which is responsible for all contact with the customer under this process.
Having considered the process map, Im satisfied TSB didnt follow its own process in this 
case. It didnt refer Mrs Ms complaint to its Enquiries and Investigation Team, and it didnt 
liaise with the Post Office Enquiries Team.I think it was reasonable for Mrs M to expect TSB to take responsibility to investigate what 
had happened. And its also reasonable to have expected TSB to follow its own processes. It 
didnt do that. Instead Mrs M had to spend time contacting both TSB and the Post Office to 
try to find the missing deposit. She felt she was being passed from one party to the other.
Mrs M told us she was able to get the drawer of the cheque to issue her with a replacement. 
So, she hasnt lost out on the value of the cheque. But she has experienced inconvenience 
and delay as a result of what happened.
Ive thought about what TSB has said about the compensation its already paid to Mrs M. But 
the compensation already paid to Mrs M was because TSB had given her incorrect 
information about being able to trace the cheque. I think £31 (in total) was fair and 
reasonable compensation for the incorrect information shed been given about tracing the 
cheque. 
TSB says the cheque never reached it. And, I note that the cheque wasnt cashed. Mrs M 
asked the drawer of the cheque to issue her with a replacement. But that doesnt change the 
position regarding the actions TSB shouldve taken when Mrs M contacted it. 
As mentioned above, I think it was fair and reasonable to expect TSB to follow its own 
processes for Post Office  missing deposits. If it had done that, Mrs M wouldnt have had to 
spend time being passed between the Post Office and TSB. And a thorough check couldve 
been carried out, using the documentary evidence Mrs M produced, to try and trace the 
missing envelope. She had a receipt and a reference number from the Post Office.
Having considered everything here, Im satisfied Mrs M experienced distress and 
inconvenience because TSB didnt follow its own processes for a missing Post Office 
deposit. I agree with our investigators view that TSB should pay Mrs M an additional £100 
for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of what happened. I think 
that is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about TSB Bank plc and I now require 
it to:
pay Mrs M an additional £100 by way of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced as a result of what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman