DRN-3774867
The complaint
Mr P says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted irresponsibly by allowing him a £750 
overdraft because the account was mainly used for gambling transactions. 
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns and didnt think there was anything 
within the credit checks and information Mr P provided when he applied for the overdraft that 
should have led to HSBC questioning the lending and didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong or treated Mr P unfairly. 
Mr P disagreed. He says the account was mainly used for gambling and given the large 
amounts of gambling transactions on the account HSBC shouldve had systems in place to 
flag this behaviour. Mr P has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including the 
key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive referred to this 
when deciding Mr Ps complaint. Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
HSBC needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
HSBC needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr P 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether HSBC did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ps overdraft. Mr P was given what was an open-ended credit facility. So 
overall this means the checks HSBC carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to 
understand whether Mr P would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period of 
time. 
HSBC says Mr P opened the account in November 2020 but didnt use the account until 
April 2021 and was approved for a £750 overdraft in August. I can see from Mr Ps bank 
statements that prior to being approved for the overdraft his account was used for mainly 
gambling transactions with large amounts being credited to the account to fund this from 
another account of Mr Ps held with a different bank. I can see that in the months leading up 
to the overdraft being granted Mr P maintained a healthy balance in his account. 
HSBC have told us that Mr P applied for his overdraft online and his application was fully 
credit scored taking into account information Mr P provided about his income and 
expenditure as well as information held by other external agencies provided through credit 
reference checks. Mr Ps application shows that he had incomings declared of £2,250 and 
outgoings of £700. Based on this information HSBC was satisfied his score was high enough 
to provide him with the overdraft facility and limits he requested.
I accept that Mr P was using the account for gambling, but it is not for HSBC to decide what 
he spends his money on or his time doing. What HSBC needed to decide was whether the 
repayments were sustainable, and the lending was affordable. I also accept his financial 
position may well have been worse than the credit checks carried out showed or in any 
information he disclosed to HSBC at the time. And it is possible that further checks might 
have told HSBC this. But HSBC was reasonably entitled to rely on the credit check it carried 
out. And given the incomings into the account were significantly more than the monthly 
outgoings, I think HSBCs checks went far enough. 
So I dont agree that HSBC acted irresponsibly by approving Mr P for an overdraft of £750. 
HSBC carried out the appropriate credit check on Mr P and were entitled to rely on the 
information provided to it when assessing Mr Ps overdraft application. And given the 
historical credits going into the account exceeded the overdraft amount requested, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to conclude Mr P would be able to repay the funds 
within a reasonable period of time. 
This means that I dont agree HSBC provided Mr P with an overdraft unfairly or irresponsibly. 
That said, even though Mr Ps overdraft wasnt approved irresponsibly, HSBC still wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr P if it applied any interest, fees and charges to 
Mr Ps account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Mr P was experiencing financial difficulty. 
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr P fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr P unfairly or unreasonably though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Ps statements I cant see anything to suggest that HSBC 
ought to have realised he might have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
I accept that Mr P did use his overdraft but when his account became overdrawn Mr P 
usually corrected this within a matter of days by crediting the account with funds from 
another account.  And it is not disputed that the account wasnt being used for paying 
essential bills but rather non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions. 
Of course this doesnt necessarily mean Mr P wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But 
there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted HSBC to 
any potential financial difficulty. And in these circumstances, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges it did. 
So I dont think that HSBC treated Mr P unfairly or unreasonably which means that Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman