DRN-2426144
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) did not record positive data about his 
credit card with credit reference agencies and is unable to backdate this information.  
What happened
Mr B opened a credit card account with HSBC in 2001. At the time HSBC only shared 
default information with credit reference agencies. It changed this practice in 2005 for new 
customers. It changed its reporting for existing customers if they completed a form 
consenting to this but did not pro-actively send out forms about this.
Mr B says his credit score was adversely affected by this, and that he was refused credit as 
a result. He asked HSBC to report information about his credit card in future, and to update 
credit reference agencies with his payment history on the credit card.
HSBC sent Mr B a form, which he completed and returned. There was a delay in processing 
this and HSBC paid Mr B £100 compensation for the delay. HSBC informed Mr B that credit 
reference agencies cant add historic data but his account would show as opened in 
February 2001. HSBCs reporting of Mr Bs account has now been updated in line with this.
Mr B was still unhappy that HSBC had not updated his account with historic payment 
information and complained to this service. He is not asking for financial compensation but 
would like HSBC to update his record with credit reference agencies.  He also says that the 
account was mis-sold as he was told he would be building up his credit record.  
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had acted unreasonably. Mr B didnt agree so the case 
has been passed to me to decide.
    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has had a credit card with HSBC since 2001. When his account was opened, HSBC 
only reported default information to credit reference agencies. This is a decision it was free 
to make, as lenders are not strictly obliged to record information with credit reference 
agencies, although the majority of lenders generally do now. 
At the time Mr B took out his card, HSBC would only have recorded default information  
such as missed payments. For it to record other information about the account, it wouldve 
needed Mr Bs consent to do that. HSBC has explained that it didnt consider that the terms 
that Mr B agreed to at the time gave it that consent. So it didnt record any other information 
in relation to Mr Bs account.
HSBC changed its practice in 2005 and started reporting wider credit information for new 
customers. It didnt apply this change to existing customers unless they completed a form 
consenting to the reporting of this data. HSBC told our investigator that it didnt have a 
record of pro-actively giving customers a form to complete. This reflects what happened in 
Mr Bs case. Mr B only heard about the form after he asked about the reporting of his 
account because it didnt show on his credit reports. 
I understand why that will have been frustrating for Mr B  but HSBC wasnt obliged to take 
steps to notify existing customers about this change and so I cant say it acted unfairly in not 
doing that here. HSBC followed its processes and, as it didnt have Mr Bs consent in the 
way it needed, it was entitled not to record this information. So although I can see why Mr B 
thinks it should record the information he wants  I dont think itd be fair for me to now tell 
HSBC to do something it was under no obligation to. Nor do I think it has treated Mr B 
unfairly in whats its done here  although I realise he may not see it this way.
Mr B feels he was mis-sold the credit card because he says he was told it would build his 
credit file. As his account was opened in 2001, there is limited information available about 
what was said and agreed at that time and HSBC has confirmed that it doesnt have 
information going back that far. So I wont be able to fairly consider this matter any further 
because of the lack of information available to me.
Mr B says that he was declined for credit several times over the last few years because his 
credit card didnt show on his credit report. As I dont think HSBC has acted unreasonably in 
not reporting this data, I cant see that it would be fair to hold HSBC liable for this. But, while 
it will no doubt be frustrating for Mr B to have this information missing on his credit file  the 
absence of information isnt what would generally be considered adverse or negative 
information by lenders. So this wouldnt have as clear an impact on another lenders decision 
as, say, missed payments.
In any event, lenders are free decide how to assess applications, and what information they 
take into account. Each has its own methods and may give different weight to different types 
of information. Looking at the credit reports for Mr B that I have seen, his score was 
described as fair on one, and good on the other, so the absence of credit card information 
hasnt had an obvious impact. I also note that Mr B was able to get a mortgage even in the 
absence of HSBC recording the information in question here. But, to be clear, Im satisfied 
that HSBC has dealt with this reasonably and was entitled not to report this information. So 
even if this did have an impact, I cant say that it would be something that HSBC could be 
fairly held responsible for.
Mr B asked HSBC to update the reporting of his credit card. HSBC has now obtained Mr Bs 
consent and started to report information about his credit card, although there was a delay in 
setting this up. HSBC paid Mr B £100 to compensate for this. HSBC has explained that it is 
not possible to backdate the reporting of information on Mr Bs account, but his record now 
shows the date that the account was opened and recent payment history. Its also explained 
he can request statements for the relevant periods of time should he wish. While I know this 
isnt what Mr B wants, I think HSBC has done all it needs to do to fairly put this right now, 
and so I am not going to ask it to do any more.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this, but I hope he understands my reasoning.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Rosemary Campbell
Ombudsman