DRN-4212216
The complaint
A, a charity, complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim under their 
management liability policy. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which it 
takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a summary of the key events here. 
A were the subject of an investigation by the Charity Commission in 2020, which concluded 
with no further action being taken against them. They made a claim under their policy and 
cover was provided for their costs. 
Following this, A made an application to a lottery fund for a grant. This was declined 
because the funders had concerns over As previous grant management. 
A asked AXA if it would cover the costs of dealing with the relationship breakdown, but AXA 
declined on the basis that there was no insured event under the policy. A disagree  they 
say its clear the funders had carried out an investigation into the charity so there should be 
cover under the same policy section as their previous claim.
A raised a complaint. AXA maintained its decision but awarded £25 compensation for the 
delays in providing a final response to the complaint. A remained dissatisfied, so they 
brought the following complaint points to our service:
Claims decision  A believe they have a legitimate claim under their policy.
Customer service  A were unhappy with the legal practice appointed by AXA who 
appeared to speak on AXAs behalf and act in its best interests.
Complaint handling  AXA didnt send A its complaints policy or speak to them in 
order to understand their dissatisfaction. A says theyve had a lack of voice in the 
process. 
Compensation  A are more interested in why there were delays in issuing the final 
response letter rather than receiving £25 compensation.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he didnt think AXA had done anything wrong 
or unfair. As A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure A that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint 
points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything theyve 
told us. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment 
on every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like, in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service.
The terms and conditions of As policy say:
Investigation costs cover
We will pay for your investigation costs caused by an investigation against you which 
you first notified as being required during the period of insurance.
The policy provides the following definitions:
Investigation
Any official hearing, investigation, examination, official enquiry or enquiry into your or 
an insured persons business carried out by any government department, regulator or 
third party with legal rights to do so.
Investigation does not include any routine regulatory supervision, enquiry or 
compliance review, any internal investigation or any investigation into the business 
activities of your industry which is not related only to your or any insured persons 
conduct.
Investigation costs
Legal and other professional costs and expenses agreed with us in writing, incurred 
directly by you or an insured person in preparing for and attending any investigation.
This does not include salary or any other additional costs of yours.
I understand that As grant application was declined over concerns about their management 
of previous grants. A says this implies an investigation has been carried out into their 
activities as a charity. I can see in an email that the funders say:
During the assessment of grant applications we carry out a review of the application 
history of an organisation, its contacts and management committees. We have 
identified concerns relating to these checks which means that we are unable to 
progress your application further. Unfortunately, we are not able to provide further 
information concerning these matters as this would potentially reveal personal data 
and potentially be in breach of data protection laws. We appreciate that this decision 
may be disappointing and hope you are able to make alternative arrangements to 
deliver your project"
This email implies that the review carried out was a standard part of the grant application 
process, rather than an investigation as defined by the policy terms. But even if I was 
persuaded this was an investigation, Im not satisfied that there have been any investigation 
costs. I say this because A havent been asked to participate in the process in any way, say 
for example by attending a hearing or submitting information required by the funders when 
doing their review. I appreciate A want to engage with the funders, through legal representation, to resolve the 
issues. But the policy is clear about what type of costs it will cover relating to an investigation 
and this engagement doesnt fall within the cover available. 
As such, Im satisfied AXAs decision to decline the claim was in line with the policy terms 
and it wasnt unfair. 
A are unhappy with the legal practice appointed by AXA to run the claim. To clarify, our 
service isnt generally able to look into the actions of a firm of solicitors as they have their 
own regulations and governing body. But I can consider any actions the legal practice took 
under powers delegated to it by AXA, since AXA remains responsible for something done on 
its behalf. 
I understand much of As complaint is that they appeared to speak on AXAs behalf and 
were serving AXAs best interests in declining cover. 
AXA instructed the legal practice to handle the claim which included delegated authority to 
make decisions on funding, which isnt unusual and I dont consider it to be unfair. AXA has 
confirmed it agrees with the legal practices decision and, as Ive explained above, so do I. 
And finally, A is unhappy with AXAs complaint handling. They say they werent provided 
with AXAs complaint policy but I can see that details of how to make a complaint and what 
to expect are set out in the policys terms and conditions, so Im not persuaded A has been 
impacted or prevented from making a complaint. 
A say they had a lack of voice in the complaint process, but I can see that they emailed AXA 
with the details of their complaint and if there was anything else they wanted to put forward 
they were able to send further emails. 
I understand A want to know why there were delays in issuing a response to their complaint. 
The complaint handling rules set by the financial regulator allow AXA up to eight weeks to 
issue a final response, before our service is able to become involved. I can see that it took 
AXA slightly over eight weeks to issue its response, but I cant see that this small delay 
caused any detrimental impact to A and I dont think the reasons for it make any difference 
to As position. Should A wish to accept AXAs offer of £25, they should contact AXA directly. 
Overall, Im satisfied AXA handled the complaint fairly and Im not asking it to do anything 
more in this regard.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman