DRN-3710855
The complaint
Mr H, through his representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains that 
Zurich Assurance Ltd gave him insufficient information when it advised him to take out a 
freestanding additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) pension policy.
What happened
In 1991 Mr H was advised by an adviser from Company A to take out a FSAVC with it.
Zurich Assurance Ltd now has responsibility for Company As actions in relation to this
advice, so for ease I will refer to Zurich from now on.
At the time Mr H was advised to take out the FSAVC he was 23 years old, married, and an
officer in the British armed forces. The fact-find completed indicated that:
He was a member of his employers occupational pension scheme and had been 
since late 1988 with a selected retirement age of 55.
His preferred retirement age (presumably for the FSAVC) was also 55.
In September 2020 Mr Hs representative complained to Zurich that Mr H had been mis-sold
the FSAVC. The CMC said that:
The adviser failed to accurately assess the level of risk Mr H was willing to take.
There was no justifiable reason for Mr H to have a portable FSAVC as he was
likely to remain in the same employment until retirement.
The adviser failed to establish if Mr Hs occupational pension scheme had an added
years or any other enhanced benefit additional voluntary contribution (AVC) 
arrangement that Mr H would have chosen if properly advised.
There is no evidence that the adviser compared the benefits of the FSAVC with
additional contributions to the occupational pension AVC scheme.
The adviser should have referred Mr H to the company scheme for the full details of
charges in order to make an informed choice.
There is no evidence that the adviser made Mr H fully aware of the comparison of
charges with the FSAVC recommended and the in-house AVC scheme.
There is no evidence that more suitable retirement alternatives were discussed with
Mr H in a fair and balanced way.
The CMC concluded that if the Zurich adviser had advised Mr H correctly, he wouldve
contributed to the most suitable in-house AVC arrangement.
In November 2020 Zurich responded to the complaint. It said it wouldnt address every point
raised but would address the overall suitability of the advice. It said that at the time Mr H met
with the adviser he was eligible to retire at 38 but that he was unsure whether he would do
so, and pursue another career, or remain in the armed forces and retire at 55. Zurich said it
was clear from the information on its files that Mr H understood his armed forces pension
scheme and the FSAVC and he wanted the flexibility the FSAVC gave him. Zurich referred
to a letter Mr H had sent it in November 1994 in which he explains his understanding that he
wouldnt have to take the FSAVC benefits at the same time as his armed forces pension. 
Zurich said this was important to him given the uncertainty about his retirement plans. It said
that if Mr H had contributed to the armed forces AVC then he wouldve had to take it at the
same time as the armed forces pension. So it concluded Mr H had made an informed choice
after discussion with his adviser and it didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She didnt think
that Zurich had met its regulatory responsibilities when its adviser recommended the FSAVC
to Mr H. She didnt think the November 1994 letter was enough to show that Mr H had been
told of the (potential difference in) charges and the in-house options. She thought Mr H
wouldve made in-house AVCs if properly advised. She set out how she thought
compensation should be calculated.
Mr H accepted our investigators view. But Zurich said she hadnt given sufficient
consideration to Mr Hs circumstances which showed that he wanted the flexibility of being
able to take the FSAVC separately to his armed forces pension. It provided some further
correspondence between Zurich and Mr H in late 1994 and early 1995.
Our investigator didnt change her view. She thought that if the main objective was such
flexibility it shouldve been noted somewhere. And there was still no evidence Mr H was
made aware of charges and in-house options, so she wasnt persuaded Zurich had met its
regulatory obligations.
Zurich asked for a decision from an ombudsman. It said that our investigator hadnt
addressed its point that it seemed clear that the FSAVC represented the most suitable
choice to meet Mr Hs requirements. It said the evidence showed that Mr H clearly wanted to
keep his pensions separate.
On 30 August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. My provisional findings were as follows:
Mr H met with the Zurich adviser concerning his pension options some 31 years ago. So I
need to consider what the regulatory requirements were at that time, which are different to
today. The requirements also differ whether an adviser is independent (can recommend
financial products across the whole market) or is tied and can only recommend products
provided by one company. The adviser is this case could only recommend products offered
by Zurich. They couldnt actively recommend any other products from any other product
providers including any in-house options such as AVCs or added years offered by the armed
forces pension scheme.
However, a tied adviser was required to follow rules set in 1988 by the regulator at that time
- the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation (LAUTRO). The LAUTRO
Code said advisers should maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due
skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the
interests of investors. It added that businesses should:
Have regard to the consumer's financial position generally and to any rights they
may have under an occupational scheme, and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings with the representative
in question.
So, this means that tied advisers should have known that in-house AVC options would most
likely be available to consumers like Mr H. And in addition to highlighting the benefits of the
FSAVC, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic benefits of the in-house options,
including that:
Money purchase in house AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the
FSAVCs.
Added years might be available under a defined benefit OPS.The consumers employer might match or top-up the amount the consumer paid
into either in-house option.
As our investigator said, theres no evidence that the Zurich adviser discussed these matters
with M H. And although at the time the advice was given there was no requirement to issue a
suitability letter setting out the recommendation, I still wouldve expected to see some
evidence. So Im not persuaded that the regulatory requirements were met.
But Zurich says Mr H had a clear motivation to favour a FSAVC over any in-house option
such as added years or an AVC. Zurich says this was because Mr H wasnt sure if he would
leave the armed forces at 38 or 55. If he retired at 38, he would have to take his armed
forces pension and any in-house further pension provision at that time. But at the time of the
FSAVC sale, it was possible for Mr H to convert his FSAVC to a personal pension and not
take it at the same time as the armed forces pension if he did decide to retire at 38.
Ive thought carefully about this, but Im not persuaded this makes the advice suitable, even
if I agree that Mr H was undecided about his retirement age at the time he sought advice. Ill
explain why.
At the time of the advice in 1991, an FSAVC did normally have to be taken at the same time
as the main occupational pension. But it appears that at the time of the advice, Zurich did
inform him that he could convert his FSAVC into a personal pension when taking retirement
from the armed forces. I say this because of Mr Hs recollection in the November 1994 letter.
It may well be that this was the motivating factor in Mr H taking out the FSAVC, given his
indication in 1994 that he had been undecided when he would retire from the armed forces.
But this doesnt mean that I must be persuaded, as Zurich argues, that the FSAVC was the
most suitable option given Mr Hs circumstances. Ive looked carefully at the other
correspondence Zurich have provided between it and Mr H in late 1994/early 1995. Its
February 1995 letter to Mr H indicated as follows:
In the early 90s there was an Inland Revenue loophole which some members of the
Armed Forces were using which allowed them to convert their (FS)AVC at retirement
into a PPP. It was always pointed out that this was a loophole and there was no
guarantee that it would remain available. The inland revenue has in fact closed the
door and therefore benefits now have to be taken (at the same time benefits are
taken from the occupational pension scheme). (initials and words in brackets added
by me for context)
At the time of the advice in 1991, Mr H still had some 15 years until his earliest possible
armed forces retirement age of 38. This is a very long period of time in which to expect any
such loophole to remain available, given the normal position at the time of the advice that
such benefits had to be taken at retirement with the OPS benefits. So Im not persuaded that
pointing out the loophole, even with the warning, was consistent with Zurichs advisers
duties under the LAUTRO code of conduct to advisers should maintain high standards of
integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and diligence in providing any services, and
to generally take proper account of the interests of investors. The use of the word loophole
suggests to me that this was a position the Inland Revenue hadnt intended and therefore it
would be prudent to think it would be closed at some time.
In this context, the lack of any evidence that Mr H was informed of his in-house options, and
in particular the possibility of lower fees from an in-house arrangement, assumes even more
significance. In my view, if Mr H had been properly advised, I think it very unlikely that he
wouldve opted to pay potentially higher fees for a product which provided flexibility that
could be removed at any time. Of course, legislative change can occur at any time in the
future, but it is the element of the flexibility being dependent on a known loophole that is ofconcern here.
I am reinforced in my view that the advice was unsuitable in any event by other elements of
the February 1995 letter in which it is plain that the FSAVC was provided on the basis that
Mr Hs retirement age for that product was 55 and early retirement charges would apply if he
took retirement at 38. This exposed Mr H to an investment loss if the loophole was closed,
and he chose to retire at 38 and had to take the FSAVC. In these circumstances Im not
persuaded that Mr H wouldve taken out the FSAVC if hed been properly advised as to the
existence of an in-house option and its potentially lower fees.
Having concluded that Mr H wasnt suitably advised in relation to the sale of the FSAVC, I
now need to consider what I think it is most likely he wouldve done if he had been properly
advised. I think its likely Mr H still wouldve wanted to supplement his armed forces pension
scheme provision as he was clearly focussed on planning for his long-term financial future.
So I dont think he wouldve done nothing if hed been properly advised and informed.
Although the Zurich adviser didnt have to provide the detail of Mr Hs in-house options the
adviser did need to give the basic information that Ive set out earlier, namely that the
charges for in-house AVCs could be lower and the employer may make or match
contributions, and that it could be possible to buy added years.
I dont think Mr H wouldve bought added years, as this was an expensive and fairly inflexible
option and if hed stayed until 55, he wouldve had a good many years of service anyway. I
think it most likely that Mr H wouldve made AVCs  the other option available to him. I set
out below my provisional view as to how compensation should be calculated.
I then set out how I thought compensation should be calculated and included an assumption 
that Mr Hs likely  income tax rate in retirement was 20%. I invited the parties to tell me if 
they didnt think that assumption was reasonable.
Mr Hs representatives accepted the PD. Zurich indicated it was disappointed with the 
decision but thanked me for considering its objections and providing my rationale. Neither 
party challenged my assumption concerning Mr Hs likely income tax rate in retirement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so,I see no reason to change my provisional findings and decision and so I 
adopt them as my final findings and decision. 
Putting things right
Zurich Assurance Ltd should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1
January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closestcorrelation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and
any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction
to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss
would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the
loss adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd should calculate any compensation due to Mr 
H in accordance with the method above and pay it to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman