DRN-3945336
The complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr M was given a loan of £12,000 by HSBC in July 2019. The loan was due to be repaid in 
60 months by monthly instalments of £290.21. The total amount repayable was £17,412.80.
Mr M complained that HSBC lent to him irresponsibly. HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, so 
Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. He didnt think HSBC had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and said that if it had done, it would have seen that the 
loan repayment was unlikely to be affordable or sustainable for Mr M.
HSBC didnt agree. It said the checks it had carried out didnt identify any concerns with Mr 
Ms ability to repay the lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website, including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. Ive 
had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ms complaint.
HSBC needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend to Mr 
M irresponsibly. This means it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable way. These checks could take into account a 
number of things such as the loan amount, the repayment amount and Mr Ms income and 
expenditure.
Mr M stated in his application that he was earning around £25,000 per year. HSBC says it 
validated this income as being inn line with the normal range based on age and employment 
status. HSBC carried out a credit check and found no external debt. HSBC also carried out 
an affordability assessment. This included using modelling tools to estimate Mr Ms essential 
monthly spending. HSBC says it calculated Mr Ms monthly income as £1,636 (net) with 
essential monthly expenditure of £364 and housing costs of £292, leaving disposable 
monthly income of around £980. HSBC says it determined that the loan was affordable for 
Mr M as he had sufficient monthly disposable income to meet the new loan payment of 
£298. 
Ive considered the checks carried out by HSBC. Ive also had regard to the amount of the 
loan and the cost of the repayments, within the overall context of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances.
The amount of the loan was around half of Mr Ms declared income. So, even though Mr M 
had no external debt, I think the amount of the loan as a proportion of Mr Ms income 
shouldve prompted HSBC to carry out further checks to verify Mr Ms income and 
expenditure. Mr M had only very recently opened a bank account with HSBC, so HSBC 
shouldve carried out further checks to confirm Mr Ms income for the period leading up to 
the loan application.
I dont know what further checks HSBC would have carried out. But I think a reasonable and 
proportionate check would have been to look at Mr Ms bank statements and/or his payslips 
to check his income and expenditure.
Ive looked at Mr Ms bank statements for the period leading up to the loan application. 
During this time, Mr Ms average monthly salary was £600. In June 2019, Mr Ms essential 
outgoings were £1200. Based on what Ive seen, I think that if HSBC had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks, these wouldve shown that Mr M wasnt likely to be 
able to sustainably repay the loan.
Ive taken everything that HSBC has said into account. Whilst I agree that Mr Ms income 
increased slightly after the loan was approved, its clear from his bank statements that his 
income prior to the loan fluctuated and wasnt guaranteed. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr Ms income was any less likely to fluctuate once the loan was approved.
Taking everything into account, I dont think HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks. Had reasonable checks been carried out, these wouldve shown that the lending 
wasnt affordable for Mr M. So, I think the decision to lend was irresponsible.
Putting things right
Mr M should only have to repay the money hes borrowed. HSBC should refund all interest 
and charges that Mr M has paid on the loan. It should also remove any negative information 
from Mr Ms credit file.
To settle the complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Add up the total amount of money Mr M received as a result of having the loan. The 
repayments made by Mr M should be deducted from this amount.
(a)if this result in Mr M having paid more than he received, then any overpayments should 
be refunded along with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement *
(b)if any balance remains outstanding, then HSBC should arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr M.
Remove any negative information from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the agreement (in the 
case of (b) this should be removed once the balance has been cleared.)
*HSBC is required by HMRC to deduct income tax from the interest. It should give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must take the steps Ive 
set out above,
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman