DRN-3219059
The complaint
Mr C complains that Capital Professional Limited (CPL) withdrew from advice about his
occupational pension scheme (OPS) causing him a financial loss.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only included
a brief summary below.
In 2019 Mr C asked CPL for advice about transferring the deferred benefits of an OPS into a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP).
The OPS provided a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £356,510 on 19 August 2019.
It was valid for three months.
CPL obtained another transfer value from the OPS on 30 September 2019 of £413,252. This
figure wasnt a guaranteed CETV but Mr C says he was unaware of that. He thought it was
guaranteed until 30 December 2019.
On 20 December 2019 CPL contacted Mr C and said they were unable to go through with
the transfer of his OPS benefits. Their professional indemnity insurers had set a new strict
criteria that a customer must meet in order for CPL to advise on the transfer of OPSs. And
Mr C didnt meet that criteria.
In the email of 20 December 2019 CPL said I would like to assure you that, in the event that
you are able to proceed with a transfer elsewhere but on a reduced CETV to that which
[CPLs adviser] has secured, we will endeavour to make up any financial loss to you. CPL
told Mr C hed need to have transferred the funds by 31 March 2020 to pursue their offer.
Mr C says he then rushed to find a new adviser in order to secure the transfer before 
31 March 2020. And he says he paid higher fees as a result.
Mr Cs new adviser had to ask for a new CETV from Mr Cs scheme. The new CETV was
£362,018. A suitability report was created by Mr Cs new financial adviser which
recommended he transfer his OPSs benefits.
Mr C says he only proceeded with the transfer on the basis that he believed CPL would
make up the difference between £362,018 and the higher valuation of £413,252. But after
hed transferred, CPL didnt make up the difference.
Mr C complained to CPL as he thought they should have continued to process his transfer
as theyd already started. He also thought CPL should uphold their offer of making up the
difference between the two valuations.
In their responses CPL said their offer to make up the difference was based on the CETV.
They said the estimation of £413,252 was not a guaranteed CETV. And so, Mr C had
actually benefited from the delay as the CETV had increased from £356,510 to £362,018.
Mr C remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to our service. 
Following a referral to our service CPL also made an offer to pay Mr C £300 in order to 
resolve the complaint. However, Mr C declined their offer.
I sent Mr C and CPL my provisional decision on 7 December 2021. In it I said I didnt think 
Mr C had suffered a financial loss, as the higher estimate his ceding scheme gave CPL 
wasnt a guaranteed CETV. However, I thought CPL had caused Mr C a loss of expectation 
as to the value of his pension, so I thought CPL should pay Mr C £750 for distress and upset 
theyd caused. Ive copied the findings from my provisional decision below. 
My Provisional Decision
In my provisional decision I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im minded to partially
uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr C and CPL, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. For ease I have broken this decision
down into what I think are the most relevant points.
Was it fair for CPL to withdraw from the advice process?
I think it was. Advice to transfer the benefits of an OPS is complex and carries a lot of risk for
a business. They are exposed to significant costs if theyre found to have given inappropriate
advice. Businesses carrying out this type of advice are usually insured through their
professional indemnity insurance.
If that insurance wasnt in place, their clients could potentially risk not being fully protected if
the advice was later found to be unsuitable. So I dont think it was unreasonable for CPL to
withdraw form the advice process when they were told their insurers wouldnt cover the
transaction.
Did Mr C suffer a financial loss?
I can understand Mr Cs frustrations, as he was keen to ensure the transfer was completed
by 30 December 2019 to secure what he thought was the CETV of £413,252. However, CPL
sent us the letter from the OPS from 30 September 2019, when the estimation was given. It
says;
The transfer value quoted in this statement is not guaranteed and is therefore an estimate.
The actual amount available to transfer may be higher or lower than the figure quoted.
I think its clear in the letter that the statement wasnt a CETV, it was an estimated value of
Mr Cs benefits. But the letter was addressed to CPL, not Mr C. And I havent seen any
evidence Mr C was given a copy at the time.
Mr C says CPL told him in phone calls and meetings that the transfer value of his pension
was £413,252. I think, on balance, thats likely to be the case. I say that because CPL wrotea suitability letter for Mr C dated 9 December 2019. Although it wasnt sent to Mr C it gives
me an idea of CPLs thoughts at the time.
The suitability letter says The current CETV being offered is £413,252. This is guaranteed
for three months and expires on 30/12/2019. The analysis within the suitability letter all
appears to be based on this figure. So, I think its likely CPLs adviser used this figure when
discussing the transfer with Mr C.
However, while I think it was likely Mr C was told the transfer value was £413,252, that was
an error CPL made. That wasnt a value Mr C could have ever secured. And so, even if CPL
had continued with Mr Cs transfer and completed it before 30 December 2019, he wouldnt
have received £413,252. He would have needed a new CETV from his scheme. And that
may have been higher or lower than the one he eventually received.
As Mr C was never entitled to £413,252, I cant say that he suffered a loss in that respect.
But I do think CPL gave Mr C an expectation that his pension had a higher valuation than it
did.
CPL later compounded their error in raising Mr Cs expectations when they said they would
endeavour to make up any financial loss to you. I say that because they made Mr C believe
the starting point for any loss calculation was £413,252 when in fact it was £356,510.
When Mr C later got a new CETV of £362,018 he thought CPL would be compensating him
to the higher valuation, which was incorrect.
Mr C says CPLs incorrect information, and the expectation they gave him directly influenced
his decision to transfer his benefits. He says there was only 40%-50% chance he would
have transferred his benefits when they were valued at £356,510. It was only the higher
valuation that made him proceed. Its also clear, from the suitability letter produced by Mr Cs
new adviser, that CPLs error played a part in Mr Cs decision to transfer his benefits.
So, I need to decide if its likely Mr C would have still transferred his benefits had CPL not
given him false expectations as to the value of his pension.
Would Mr C have transferred had he not been given a raised expectation by CPL?
I think it was most likely the case that Mr C had an interest in transferring the deferred
benefits from his OPS even at the value of £356,510. I say that because he had contacted
his scheme in order to obtain an up to date CETV. And based on the he was sufficiently
interested to take the next step in obtaining professional advice to see if the transfer was
suitable and met his retirement objectives.
When Mr C instructed a new adviser firm to assess the suitability of transferring his deferred
OPS benefits, they produced a suitability report. The report, amongst other things, says;
Although not your sole reason for wishing to transfer, you stated that you felt that the offer of
the compensation from [CPL] was something that you wanted to take advantage of now
rather than risking that the transfer value could remain or even drop lower than the current
figure provided.
So while I accept it played a part in Mr Cs decision making. The offer from CPL wasnt the
sole reason he wanted to transfer. He had other objectives which his adviser recorded.
The suitability report generated by his new adviser was done so on the basis of the correct
CETV of £362,018. All of the analysis was based on this figure. The adviser recommended
Mr C transfer on the basis of £362,018 being able to meet Mr Cs objectives. So, even if CPL
hadnt made the errors they did around the CETV, its likely Mr Cs new adviser would have
still recommended the transfer.While its not my role in this complaint to comment on the suitability of the recommendation,
Mr C wanted a professionals opinion as to whether it was in his interests to transfer his
benefits. And he was given that. Ive seen no evidence that Mr C wouldnt have followed his
advisers recommendation. So, on balance, I think its likely Mr C would have followed the
advice and transferred his benefits even if CPL hadnt raised his expectations.
The adviser fees
Mr C feels the higher fees he paid to his new adviser are a direct financial loss. But it
wouldnt be fair to hold CPL responsible for the fees the new provider charged. While the
fees with his new provider were higher, Ive not seen any evidence CPL insisted Mr C use
that financial adviser. While I understand Mr Cs comments about the time constraints he
faced, he was free to shop around. And it was Mr Cs choice to use the new adviser and pay
the higher fees. 
The responses to my provisional decision 
Mr C said he didnt know the valuation of his OPS of £413,252 wasnt guaranteed until after 
hed transferred his pension. He doesnt think CPL did either. He went on to say that 
because he was given such a short deadline to arrange the transfer by CPL, he couldnt 
shop around. And he ended up paying £4,000 more in fees than CPL were going to charge 
him. But he was happy to pay the extra fees as he thought CPLs compensation would cover 
them.
CPL had nothing further to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to change the findings Ive made in my provisional decision. 
Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I said it was likely Mr C was told by CPL his pension had been 
valued at £413,252. And I accept that he didnt know this figure wasnt a guaranteed transfer 
valuation until after he transferred his benefits. Thats why I think CPL caused Mr C a loss in 
expectation of the value of his pension.  
However, Mr C was given a further CETV that was guaranteed before continuing with the 
transfer. And it was on that basis the transfer was recommended as being suitable for his 
objectives. As Ive said in my provisional decision, I think its likely Mr C would have gone 
ahead with the transfer based on the recommendation made by his adviser. And he was 
always going to have to pay a fee for that service. 
While CPL set a timeframe in which they wanted Mr C to complete the transfer, he was still 
free to shop around or ask CPL for an extension if he hadnt found an adviser he was happy 
with. 
I cant say with any certainty Mr C would have been able to complete the transfer  and 
receive the same level of service and recommendations  for a lower fee. Even if hed had a 
longer time to shop around. Or if the benefits of the OPS would have dropped or increased 
in value during that time. So, I dont think it would be fair to direct CPL to pay the additional 
£4,000 in fees Mr C paid his new adviser. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained in this and my provisional decision, I think CPL gave Mr C a 
loss of expectation that he could have secured a higher transfer valuation for his deferred 
OPS benefits than he did.
The expectation played into Mr Cs decision making on whether to transfer his benefits, and
while I dont think it changed the outcome of this complaint, its clearly caused Mr C
considerable distress and upset. CPLs actions have made Mr C question the irreversible
decision he made to transfer his benefits so I can understand why Mr C feels upset.
Therefore, CPL should pay Mr C a total of £750 for the distress and upset
theyve caused. 
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Capital Professional Limited to pay
Mr C;
£750 for the distress and upset theyve caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman