DRN-3925092
The complaint
Mr N and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc caused delays when they re-mortgaged. 
They ask that it compensates them for their costs of about £1,000. Mr N has dealt with the 
complaint.
What happened
Mr N and Mrs M applied to Santander via a broker for a buy to let mortgage. Santander 
issued a mortgage offer to Mr N and Mrs M in late 2021. The offer expired on 6 May 2022. 
The security property was referred to as freehold in the application and the mortgage offer.
Mr N and Mrs M intended to complete the re-mortgage in early May 2022. In late April 2022 
the solicitor told Santander the property was leasehold. Santander re-assessed the 
application and completion was delayed to 6 June 2022. Mr N says Santander took too long 
to re-issue the mortgage offer. They missed their intended completion date and had to pay 
interest at their previous lenders standard variable rate (SVR) during the delay.
Our investigator said Santander issued several mortgage offers between late 2021 and mid-
2022 referring to the security property as freehold. She said there was ample opportunity for 
Mr N and Mrs M, their broker or their solicitor to put this right. Our investigator said 
Santander had acted in a timely manner given that its underwriters needed further 
information and to re-assess the application. It also extended the product. She said the £100 
paid by Santander was fair.
Mr N said it was unreasonable for Santander to fail to solve the issue before the agreed 
completion date. He said they incurred costs of about £1,000 through no fault of their own. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt responsible for the original error  the property being recorded as freehold. 
Its unfortunate that the error wasnt spotted until two weeks before the intended completion 
date, but again Santander wasnt responsible for this. The issue here is whether Santander 
responded fairly and promptly when it was told about the error.
Santander says leasehold properties can involve additional costs. So the application had to 
be returned to the underwriters. 
Santanders underwriter asked the broker for information on 4 May 2022. It said if this was 
provided within four working hours Santander could make a quicker decision, and avoid the 
case being placed into the processing queue. The email said the underwriters were 
assessing the case after being told the property was leasehold. Mr N says the email didnt 
tell the broker how to respond to the email, to provide the information. I think its reasonable 
for Santander to expect the broker to know how to provide information. And the email had a 
paragraph explaining how to respond to requests for information.
Santander spoke to the broker on 6 May 2022 and said it was waiting for information. Mr N 
says this was provided the same day. Santander says it was loaded on 9 May 2022, which is 
supported by its records. The underwriters were satisfied with the information provided and 
approved the application. 
However, there was another problem. The mortgage offer had expired on 6 May 2022. 
Ordinarily, this would mean that Mr N and Mrs M would need to choose a new product. Mr N 
raised a complaint in mid-May 2022, saying he was upset with the delays and missing out on 
the product. 
Santander agreed to extend the mortgage offer (with the same product) to 6 June 2022. It 
wrote to the solicitor in late May 2022 confirming this. The solicitor also wrote to Santander 
in late May 2022 asking for a new mortgage offer, which Santander issued on 1 June 2022. 
The re-mortgage completed in early June 2022.
I understand Mr N and Mrs Ms frustration about the delays and the resulting costs. But I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Santander to pay compensation for these costs.
Mr N says Santander ought to have been able to deal with the issue related to the title in 
time for them to complete in early May 2022, as theyd intended. But even if Santander could 
have dealt with the issue more quickly this doesnt mean it acted unfairly or caused 
unreasonable delays. Santander would have been dealing with applications and queries 
from a number of customers. It has to treat all customers fairly, and to help with this it has 
service levels to respond to communications. It met its service level targets here. 
Santander offered to make a decision more quickly if information was provided the same 
day. Its unfortunate Santander didnt receive information from the broker that day  but this 
wasnt due to an error by Santander.
After agreeing to extend the product, Santander wrote to the solicitor to confirm the 
extension but didnt immediately issue a new mortgage offer as it didnt consider this to be 
necessary. It did so when the solicitor said they required a new mortgage offer. This might 
have delayed completion by a few days or a week.
Overall, I think Santander acted fairly. It paid £100 as a good will payment. The Bank of 
England increased the base rate in February, March and May 2022. If Mr N and Mrs M had 
had to choose a new product in May 2022 this would most likely have been at a higher rate. 
Santander agreed to extend the mortgage offer with the same product, which means Mr N 
and Mrs M are benefitting from the lower interest rate product. I dont think, in the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable to require Santander to pay further compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman