DRN-3426845
The complaint
Mrs M complains that CarCashPoint Limited (CarCash) repossessed her car.
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs M took out a logbook loan for £4,000 from CarCash. It was payable 
over 60 months with an APR of 140%. The total to be repaid was £18,400.20. Payments 
were £307.67 a month. Mrs M fell into financial difficulty. In July 2019, CarCash sent her a 
Notice of Sums in Arrears and a Default Notice  the arrears were £613.35. Mrs M last 
payment was in August 2019. CarCash instructed recovery agents in December 2019 with 
the arrears at £1,173. But repossession action was suspended while CarCash discussed 
Mrs Ms situation with her. The car was then repossessed in September 2020. Mrs M 
received a refund after the sale of £1,389.16.
Mrs M complained. She said the repossession process was embarrassing and stressful. She 
needed the car to get to work, and she worked in a stressful and responsible job in the 
health care sector. As a result, she had now resigned from her job. She had made an offer to 
CarCash to pay off the arrears in September 2020  by drawing funds from her personal 
pension, but they declined to agree to that. CarCash had instead said they wanted payment 
of over £7,000 immediately, which she felt was unreasonable. She said shed not received 
any communications from CarCash about the repossession. She also said she was missold 
the loan at her home and didnt have a copy of the agreements  as they werent left with 
her. She said the whole episode had left her feeling without any self-worth  and this was 
made worse by her long-term partner dying.
CarCash said Mrs M stopped making payments in August 2019. They accepted that Mrs M 
had moved to a new house and they didnt have her new address on record  but this was 
because theyd asked her for proof of address, which she hadnt sent them. But in any case 
they said theyd communicated with Mrs M a lot by other means  including 20 phone calls, 
15 text messages, and ten emails. After July 2020, theyd not communicated with Mrs M 
because repossession had commenced  due to  the arrears on the account. They said 
theyd contacted Mrs M many times to offer help and to try to talk to her, but she didnt 
respond.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said CarCash had acted reasonably. 
Mrs M hadnt made any payments on the loan since August 2019. CarCash had sent her 
many emails and texts to try to understand her situation, and also called her. But she didnt 
respond. Finally, Mrs M did ask for help in February 2020  and she showed CarCash a sick 
note for the month of February 2020. But CarCash wanted more information to understand 
her situation and asked her to get in touch - but she didnt. CarCash contacted Mrs M again 
in July 2020 and gave her 14 days to allow her time to discuss an arrangement. They also 
called again on 2 September 2020 and 7 September 2020, but she didnt answer the calls or 
return them. So, our investigator felt that CarCash had done all they could to come to an 
arrangement with Mrs M. He also considered Mrs Ms complaint that the loan was missold. 
But hed seen all the documents that Mrs M signed and was satisfied they were all 
completed satisfactorily and with her signature. This included the Bill of Sale and credit 
agreement. Shed also signed a document to say shed been given the chance to ask any 
questions about the documents.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman. She 
repeated that she hadnt received any communications, in particular the termination notice; 
and that she had been missold the loan in the first place. And  she said she said the 
paperwork for the loan was misleading.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M was struggling and was in financial difficulty. In such circumstances, businesses have 
an obligation to treat customers in financial difficulty sympathetically and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) says that businesses like CarCash should treat customers in 
difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. For example, a business might suspend 
or waive interest, accept lower payments or defer them, and allow customers more time to 
repay their debt.
So  I have considered Mrs Ms complaint in the light of this guidance. I can see that Mrs M 
struggled to make regular payments to the loan after it was taken out in November 2018. 
There were several late payments and CarCash needed to chase her for payment regularly, 
using texts, emails, and phone calls. But  it looks like she just managed to meet most 
payments, albeit that some were late. In August 2019, the arrears were £306.35  one 
months payment. Mrs M then made a payment of £360 on 28 August 2019  and that was 
the last payment she made until the car was repossessed and sold in September 2020.
And so  I have considered what happened during that time. Mrs M has said she didnt get 
any communications from CarCash. But Ive seen from their records that they did try to 
contact her on many occasions. Between August 2019 and November 2019, I counted at 
least 20 phone calls (unanswered), 12 texts and ten emails. The emails all said that 
CarCash wanted to understand more about Mrs Ms situation and how they could help. 
Understandably, as time went on, they started to say that repossession proceedings would 
begin if no contact could be made or if the arrears werent paid. So  I cant agree that 
CarCash didnt try to communicate with Mrs M, and in an appropriate manner  they wanted 
to help her and work with her. When they didnt get any response, they started possession 
proceedings in December 2019. I can see that the costs relating to that were debited to Mrs 
Ms loan at that time also.
Mrs M then contacted CarCash in February 2020 and explained she was suffering from 
work-related stress. She showed them a sick note for the month of February 2020  and said 
she would get in touch with CarCash again after then to make a proposal to repay the 
arrears (which were then £2,698.04). But unfortunately, she didnt contact CarCash as shed 
said she would. I can see that CarCash then waited until July 2020 to see if she would come 
forward, but she didnt, and so they started possession proceedings again  and the car was 
sold in September 2020.
I then looked at the letters sent to Mrs M. She was sent a Notice of Arrears in July 2019 with 
the arrears at £613.35. And a Default Notice was sent in the same month also. The default 
notice said If you fail to pay us the total arrears referred to above of £613.35 by 9th August 
2019 we may :
Demand payment of the outstanding balance duly rebated, as will be notified to you 
in writing.Enforce the Bill of Sale you entered into on 20th November 2018, by repossessing 
and selling your vehicle tendered as security.
Take court action, if necessary, in connection with the above.
Mrs M says she didnt receive these letters as shed moved. But she told us that she moved 
in November 2019  and the default notice was sent in July 2019, so I think its fair to 
assume she received it. Also, I can also see that emails were sent to her on 22 July 2019 
and 29 July 2019, and texts on 29 July 2019 and 31 July 2019  asking her to deal with the 
arrears and to get in touch. So  I dont think that I can say that Mrs M wasnt aware of her 
situation.
Looking at what happened in September 2020  I can see that CarCash called Mrs M on 2 
September 2020 and 7 September 2020, but she didnt answer or return the calls. A notice 
of termination was sent on 14 September 2020. Mrs M says she didnt receive this as it was 
sent to her old address. She told us that she moved in November 2019 and told CarCash 
about that in 2020 (I havent seen exactly when). But  given the volume of calls, texts and 
emails sent to Mrs M over the time of her loan (which werent dependent on her postal 
address), I dont think I can accept that she wasnt aware of her situation. 
But Ive gone on to consider her specific point about not receiving the letter of termination 
dated 14 September 2020. I think she is saying that because she didnt get this, CarCash 
werent entitled to seize the car. But theyd sent her a default notice on 24 July 2019  and 
she moved in November 2019, so as Ive said - I think its fair to assume she received that 
letter. And it said that CarCash had the right to repossess and sell the car if the arrears 
werent paid by 9 November 2019  and I can see that they werent, as the arrears at that 
date were £866.36. And after that, the arrears increased more. And so  the default letter 
from July 2019 was still effective and could be used to give CarCash the right to take Mrs 
Ms car at any time after that  because the arrears still hadnt been paid. In other words, I 
dont think the termination notice is that relevant here.
Mrs M has said that CarCash wouldnt agree to her proposal in September 2020  and Ive 
considered this. She wanted to keep the car and said to CarCash she would withdraw 
money from her pension fund to repay the arrears  in December 2020. She made that offer 
on 14 September 2020, the day the car was repossessed. But by that time, the arrears were 
£2,093  and no payments had been received for 12 months. And CarCash hadnt heard 
from Mrs M since February 2020. So instead, they said that the full balance was needed to 
keep the car  which was £7,176.04. So in the context of what had happened since the 
loan was drawn, (and in particular since August 2018) I dont think it was unreasonable of 
CarCash to decline her offer  as they couldnt be confident that Mrs M would make the 
payment.
Mrs M has said that the process of CarCash seizing the car was unpleasant and 
embarrassing  - and Im sure it was. Ive also considered this. The credit agreement says, if 
we do take possession of the vehicle, we will use reasonable and proportionate measures to 
seize it. And so  the agreement covers CarCashs actions; and I havent seen anything in 
what Mrs M has told us that suggests the representatives went too far or acted in a manner 
which wasnt proportionate.
Mrs M had said she didnt understand what she had signed, and that she wasnt given 
copies of the documents at the time of signing. I cant be sure whether copies were left with 
her or not. But her signature does appear on the Bill of Sale and Credit Agreement. And the 
terms of them are clear. The credit agreement says, Missing payments could have severe 
consequences, including repossession and sale of your vehicle tendered as security without 
the need for recourse to legal proceedings. And it goes on a Bill of Sale attached to his documents and signed at the same timeownership of the vehicle passes to the creditor 
(i.e. CarCash) upon signing the Bill of Sale. And so  the car was transferred into the name 
of CarCash at that time. 
The Bill of Sale said CarCash does not need to obtain a court order or any other permission 
before exercising this right of seizure. I also saw that Mrs M signed a post-sale document 
which included the questions did you receive clear information and explanations before and 
during the loan sign up?; do you fully understand the terms of your loan agreement? In 
both cases, Mrs M ticked the good box. So, on balance, I think the terms of the loan and 
Bill of Sale were clear about what would happen if Mrs M didnt make the payments; and Mrs 
M signed them. And shed signed to state she understood the documents.
Mrs M has said that she shouldve been given more support by CarCash because of the 
pandemic. Ive considered this point. In March 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
announced guidance to lenders in response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 
pandemic. All lenders, including CarCash, had to put in place payment deferrals on credit 
agreements  to help customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two 
payment deferrals, each of three months  whereby payments could be suspended. Missed 
payments would not be reported to credit reference agencies, although interest would still be 
debited to the accounts. This support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020. 
But importantly, customers who were already in arrears didnt qualify for the support. And in 
Mrs Ms case, she had arrears of £2,093 in March 2020 (when the pandemic started)  and 
so CarCash wouldnt have been able to help her in that way.
I was truly sorry to hear of Mrs Ms personal circumstances and the difficult time she has 
been through. I have taken that into account when considering her complaint. But I dont 
think CarCash acted unfairly or unreasonably, and I wont be asking them to do anything 
here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman