DRN-3570339
The complaint
Mr S1, Mr S2, Mr S3 and Mrs S have complained about their home insurer AXA Insurance 
UK Plc in respect of a settlement it made following damage to their property when a 
boundary wall fell.
The complainants are co-owners of the property. But Mr S1 has mainly dealt with the claim 
and complaint. For ease of reading Ill only refer to Mr S1 in the main body of my decision 
below. But all references to him alone should be read to include all the complainants. 
What happened
Damage occurred to a greenhouse and tennis court at Mr S1s property in March 2020. This 
was caused by a boundary wall falling onto the greenhouse, which in turn impacted the 
fencing on the tennis court with debris falling onto the courts surface. AXA declined the 
claim for damage in part and Mr S1 complained to this service.
My Ombudsman colleague made various findings and directed AXA to settle the claim for 
replacing the greenhouse, and reimburse Mr S1 for various professional fees incurred. But, 
in reference to quantity surveyors fees, my colleague confirmed he didnt think AXA had to 
pay these. And regarding the tennis courts surface being damaged, he said he had not 
looked at that issue as it had not been part of the complaint he had considered. AXA had 
also raised a point to my colleague about underinsurance  that it hadnt completed its 
enquiries in this respect. My colleague said that could be considered by AXA when 
determining its claim settlement.
Following the decision AXA began progressing the claim. But Mr S1 wasnt happy with 
various elements. He made a complaint to this service. He said AXA hadnt reimbursed him 
for one professional fee invoice, which he thought the previous Ombudsman had instructed 
AXA to pay. And said there were four issues in dispute. He later added two further issues.
AXAs refusal to cover the cost of the contents of the greenhouse
AXAs refusal to cover the cost of replacing the tennis court
AXAs refusal to pay his quantity surveyors fees at 15% for overseeing the work
AXA suggesting the property was underinsured
AXA should pay to replace the CCTV system which had been attached to the boundary 
wall and damaged during the incident
AXA should pay his reasonable expenses of £300 - £400 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She explained she couldnt look at anything 
covered by the previous Ombudsman and otherwise didnt think AXA had done anything 
wrong. AXA didnt comment on the investigators findings. Mr S1 was unhappy with them. As 
such his complaint was passed for an ombudsmans consideration.
I felt there were some elements of the complaint I couldnt look at. And some which I could 
but wasnt minded to uphold. However, I did think that the parts of the complaint relating to 
the tennis court and underinsurance should be upheld. I issued the following provisional 
findings to both parties: 
previous Ombudsman
My colleague Ombudsman issued a decision on 22 June 2021. I cannot add to or change 
anything within the findings or directions made. Nor can I make AXA comply with the findings 
where Mr S1 feels it so far has not. For Mr S1 and this decision that means that I cannot say 
anything about or make any direction in respect of:
The invoice Mr S1 says AXA was directed to pay but hasnt  for the avoidance of doubt 
this is an invoice from F, a consulting civil and structural engineer, dated 28 May 2021. 
AXAs refusal to pay the fees for the quantity surveyor (Mr R), of 15%  for the 
avoidance of doubt this was in respect of an agreement between Mr S1 and Mr R and 
against which AXA, on 8 June 2020, had offered to pay 11%.
expenses
Mr S1 says that he has spent a lot of time dealing with this claim. He says the worth of that 
time, as well as some out of pocket expenses totals around £300  £400. I cant see that 
AXA, so far has considered this request from Mr S1  or had a chance to consider what the 
out of pocket expenses may be. If Mr S1 wants AXA to pay him this sum, he will have to put 
this to it first.
greenhouse contents and CCTV
AXA says these arent covered. Mr S1 has argued that they should be covered because the 
wall fell on the greenhouse, and the greenhouse was covered even though the wall was not. 
I can understand why Mr S1 might think all damage caused in the event should be covered. 
But that is not how an insurance policy works. The greenhouse was covered even though 
the wall was not because the greenhouse was damaged in the single incident of the wall 
falling onto it, and the policy included cover for the greenhouse being damaged in that type 
of instance. However, the policy only covers the buildings at the property. There is no cover 
for general contents. And the contents of the greenhouse do not fall within the policy 
definition for buildings. And CCTV is specifically defined as a contents item. Im satisfied 
that Mr S1 was simply not covered for the contents of his greenhouse or his CCTV. So, in 
my view, AXAs refusal to cover their damage under the claim is fair and reasonable.
tennis court
Mr S1 says he has shown the courts surface needs replacing. He says that is shown by his 
two quotes for its replacement. Im not persuaded Mr S1s evidence supports his view. The 
quotes are just that, quotes for work to be done. They dont offer any views from those 
completing them as to whether replacement is necessary or just desirable. Or, indeed, if it is 
necessary, if this is due to damage caused in the incident in March 2020.
In contrast AXAs loss adjuster examined the court in June 2021. This was quite a long time 
after the incident, and I take that into account. The adjuster noted and took photos of the 
court which showed a thick layer of moss covering its entire surface. Glass and brick debris 
from the incident in March 2020 were visible on the moss surface. On that basis the adjuster 
felt there would have been little or no damage caused to the surface below  all that would 
be needed would be to clean away the moss and debris. That sounds plausible to me. 
However, I know that Mr S1 says that the moss had grown since the loss. He presented a 
letter from his gardener to confirm that. Im not sure AXA has seen this letter, it can ask our 
investigator for a copy if it hasnt. But the adjuster also said that once the moss and debris 
were removed the revealed surface below would have to be considered, to see if any 
damage had been caused. I dont see that has been done. I think AXA should appoint a suitably qualified expert, on a joint basis with Mr S1, who has 
relevant experience in artificial turf tennis courts, to assess the surface to decide whether it 
needs replacing or if it can be repaired. If possible the expert should also give costs for the 
work they recommend as necessary. The parties will be bound by their findings and, if the 
expert is able to price the work, AXA should settle with Mr S1 for that sum. The parties will 
be bound by the experts findings. This appointment should be arranged by AXA presenting 
a choice of three experts to Mr S1 for him to choose one of. AXA will then appoint the 
chosen expert on a joint basis between it and Mr S1, but with AXA paying the costs.
Underinsurance
AXA says Mr S1s property is underinsured. Its loss adjuster and a surveyor have said the 
rebuild value is around £3,500,000. Mr S1 had valuations from two surveyors  £1,450,000 
and £2,400,000. I must say, having considered the values and reasoning given for each, Im 
more persuaded by those submitted by AXA. But an incorrect value for rebuilding having 
been given by Mr S1 doesnt necessarily mean AXA can rely on the property having been 
underinsured to provide a partial, pro-rated settlement for the claim.
For AXA to settle on a pro-rata basis Mr S1 has to have failed to take reasonable care when 
arranging the policy, or at renewal, when setting the sum insured. The policy documents do 
explain that the sum insured is the rebuild cost of the whole of the property  not just the 
house and any outbuildings. And Ive not seen any evidence that makes me think Mr S1 
didnt take all that into account when he set the initial sum insured/rebuild value of 
£2,000,000. He has said hed received a sales valuation of £3,250,000, understood the sales 
value took into account many factors which are not part of the re-build costs, such as the 
school catchment area, and made adjustments accordingly, coming to the rebuild/sum 
insured figure of £2,000,000. In short Mr S1 knew providing a correct figure was important 
and he put thought into doing that. And he wasnt told, as far as I can see, at any time that 
the best way to calculate an accurate rebuild figure is to have a surveyor assess the 
property. That is, in the insurance industry, generally seen as the best advice. But I dont 
think I can assume Mr S1 should have known that. I think his explanation of his thought 
process behind the figure he gave shows he took reasonable care. It is only if he failed to 
take reasonable care that it can be said he misrepresented the rebuild cost to AXA. Which 
would then allow the pro-rated settlement. As Im satisfied he did take reasonable care, it 
follows that I think AXA cant fairly pro-rate any settlement due under the claim. 
Mr S1 said he generally accepted my findings. However, he said that the expert appointed to 
assess the tennis court, should also be an expert in fencing, as the fencing was damaged 
too. And he asked if he could be compensated for having had no use of his tennis court for 
two years. 
AXA said it only wanted me to review the findings made in respect of underinsurance. In that 
respect it said as the policy was purchased via a broker, it had not been up to it, as the 
insurer, to advise Mr S1 as to the reinstatement value. And as Mr S1 had used a specialist 
broker, that might suggest a higher level of care needed to have been taken. It asked that 
I change my view and allow it to pro-rate the claim (apply average) as allowed by the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tennis court and fencingI know the fencing around the tennis court was damaged. But any dispute that may exist 
between Mr S1 and AXA about the fencing was not brought to this service as part of this 
complaint. As such, I cant make any finding about AXAs liability for the fencing or what it 
must do to resolve this part of Mr S1s claim. So I wont be requiring that any expert 
appointed to assess the tennis court also assesses and/or comments on the fencing.
I didnt suggest provisionally that AXA should pay Mr S1 compensation. I note he says that 
he hasnt been able to use the court for two years. But, from what I have seen, Mr S1 didnt 
claim for damage to the tennis court straight away. And when he did, AXA considered his 
claim  which was based on the need for the tennis court to be replaced. As I noted 
provisionally, Mr S1 hasnt persuaded me that is necessary. So he hasnt shown that AXAs 
refusal to replace it and, instead, to only offer a deep clean of it, was unfair and 
unreasonable. In that circumstance  and whilst I do think AXA needs to complete some 
further investigations  I dont think compensation is fairly and reasonably warranted.
Under insurance
I did not suggest provisionally that AXA should have advised Mr S1 in respect of the 
reinstatement value. And I wasnt seeking to suggest it should have done, or that it should 
lose out because it did not. Rather I was setting the scene for the basis upon which Mr S1 
had said he had assessed the reinstatement value. 
Mr S1 did use a broker to arrange the policy. But even if a broker is acting in an advisory 
capacity, for a prospective policyholder, it cant reasonably be expected, without good 
reason to do so, to question every detail and answer given to it. Nor would we expect a 
broker to calculate the reinstatement value for the prospective policyholder. I remain of the 
view that Mr S1 thought carefully about what the reinstatement value was most likely to be 
and was confident he had reached a correct answer. Im not persuaded then there would 
have been any reasonable or likely discussion for him and the broker to have had or that 
should reasonably have taken place about the reinstatement value given. I remain of the 
view that it would not be fair or reasonable for AXA to pro-rate any settlement it makes for 
this claim.
Putting things right
I require AXA to settle the claim without pro-rating it for underinsurance. And, in order to 
settle the part of it in respect of the tennis courts surface, appoint an expert to consider what 
is needed to reinstate it, and what that will cost. As noted above that appointment should be 
on a joint basis with Mr S1 (and for the avoidance of doubt that includes Mr S2, Mr S3 and 
Mrs S), where Mr S1 has selected an expert from a list of three presented by AXA, and 
where AXA pays for appointing the chosen expert. The parties will be bound by the experts 
findings.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out above 
at putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S1, Mr S2, 
Mr S3 and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman