DRN-1398041
 
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy with Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd.s handling of the insurance renewal for 
her buildings and contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs L received a renewal quote from Triton at the end of April 2019, to renew her buildings 
and contents insurance policy in May 2019. To ensure her policy remained in force, Mrs L 
paid the full premium before the renewal date. The amount paid was £496.55.
In September 2019 Mrs L received a letter from the insurers. The letter explained to Mrs L 
that the insurers had stopped doing business with Triton in January 2019 and her policy 
wasnt in force. The letter told Mrs L to get in touch with Triton. Mrs L tried to do this, and she 
also took out alternative insurance with another provider. Mrs L was concerned her money 
had been taken fraudulently and she wanted it refunded.
She didnt hear anything from Triton and she never received her money back. So, she raised 
a complaint through our service.
Our investigator asked Triton to provide their response. They didnt so the investigator 
upheld the complaint for Mrs L. She asked Triton to refund the premium of £496.55, pay 
interest on that amount and pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the upset the matter had 
caused her.
As Triton didnt respond to our investigators opinion, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information is incomplete, Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities, 
or whats most likely to have happened. In this case, Triton havent provided our service with 
any information, so my decision is based solely on what Mrs L has provided. I find her 
information plausible and persuasive.
Mrs L paid Triton before her policy renewed to ensure her policy remained active. And, once 
she was aware that she didnt have any insurance cover in force, she made sure she sought 
cover with an alternative insurer. This cost her considerably more than Triton had requested 
in April 2019 to renew her policy. 
Mrs Ls original insurers cancelled their agreement with Triton in January 2019. 
Unfortunately, Triton havent responded to our request for information so I cant provide   Mrs 
L with an explanation as to why the error occurred. But Im satisfied Triton shouldnt have offered Mrs L any insurance cover with the original insurer. And they should have refunded 
the money Mrs L paid to them.
Given this, its reasonable for Triton to refund the premium paid by Mrs L. Mrs L has also 
confirmed that she tried to speak to Triton several times to get her money back, and she 
wasnt able to get through to anyone. None of her calls were returned. Because of this upset, 
its also reasonable for Triton to pay Mrs L £100 compensation. I think this amount fairly 
recognises the inconvenience and upset caused in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd must:
Pay Mrs L her premium of £496.55;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Mrs L paid for 
her insurance policy to the date this amount is paid; *
Pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the upset shes been caused.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Triton Insurance Brokers Ltd deducts 
income tax from the interest it should tell Mrs L how much has been taken off. Triton 
Insurance Brokers Ltd should give Mrs L a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 February 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman