DRN-4094945
The complaint
Miss A complains HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) defaulted her credit card account without any 
prior notice. 
What happened
Miss A says she had entered into a payment break plan with HSBC. Miss A says she never 
heard anything further from HSBC and noticed her credit card account wasnt showing on 
her app. Miss A says when she contacted HSBC it informed her that her credit card account 
had been closed and placed with debt recovery agents and shed been informed of this in 
writing. Miss A says she never received any correspondence from HSBC regarding her 
credit card account and if she had she would have contacted them. Miss A feels these letters 
HSBC refer to, may have been returned to them by the post office and HSBC had told her 
that it had received returned mail.
Miss A says this matter has been very stressful for her and it is unfair how HSBC have 
treated her. Miss A wants HSBC to remove any adverse entries on her credit file and return 
the use of her credit card. 
HSBC says its financial support team agreed a long term no affordability plan following the 
expiry of a four-month payment break on her credit card account. HSBC says at that time 
Miss A was informed as part of that plan she would be issued with a default notice and final 
demand, and this was followed up in writing to her in May 2022 and June 2022. HSBC says 
in the final demand letter it was explained to Miss A her debt would be placed with debt 
recovery agents.
HSBC says it has correctly issued the default notices and registered these with the 
appropriate credit reference agencies and are unable to remove these. 
Miss A wasnt happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says HSBC acted reasonably when it started the default process when it did. 
The investigator felt HSBC had treated Miss A fairly when she experienced financial 
difficulties. The investigator says HSBC informed Miss A of the process of issuing a default 
in a telephone call in April 2022. Additionally, the investigator felt HSBC had sent the default 
and demand letters to the correct address and felt in all likelihood these had been delivered 
as intended, bearing in mind Miss A had received another letter regarding the payment 
break in April 2022. 
The investigator says HSBC had confirmed it hadnt received any returned post from the 
post office specifically relating to the defaulting of her credit card account.  
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I was sorry to learn of the financial problems Miss A faced and the stress and worry this has 
caused her. When looking at this complaint I will consider if HSBC acted fairly when it issued 
the default notice when it did and placed her credit card account with debt collection agents. 
Miss As complaint centres around the fact following a payment break agreed with HSBC, it 
simply defaulted her credit card account and placed it with debt collection agents without 
informing her. Miss A has made the point if HSBC did write to her about this she never 
received any of those letters and she would have contacted HSBC if she had. Miss A is of 
the view any letters sent by HSBC regarding her default must have been returned by the 
post office. 
Both HSBC and Miss A have provided this service with comprehensive information, phone 
calls and documents regarding this matter and while this has proved helpful, I wont be 
commenting on every point made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come to a full and 
impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything sent to us  I have. 
Firstly, its worth saying HSBC had initially agreed with Miss A back in November 2021, a 
four-month payment break on her credit card account, including suspension of interest and 
charges, when she informed them of her financial circumstances, and I am satisfied HSBC 
showed a good level of support to Miss A at that time. I have listened to the phone call at 
that time and the terms of the agreement were explained to Miss A and that it would be 
reported to the relevant credit agencies. This was also followed up with a letter which 
explained what was agreed and a further letter was issued in late March 2022 explaining that 
the agreement was coming to an end and Miss A was to contact them. 
This is when Miss A contacted HSBC in early April 2022 and during that call it was 
established Miss As financial situation meant she wasnt in a position to make any further 
payments to her credit card account for the foreseeable future. With that in mind during that 
call the agent explains to Miss A, all it could offer was what was known as a long term no 
affordability plan. In essence it was explained to Miss A, within six months certain actions 
would be taken if the debt couldnt be repaid including the issuing of arrears letters and a 
default notice. I can also see that this call was followed up in writing on the 13 April 2022 
which went on to explain to Miss A that a demand would be issued, and it would share the 
default information with the relevant credit agencies. 
Following this, a default notice and covering letter was sent to Miss A on 25 May 2022 and 
as the arrears werent cleared a demand was sent to her on 16 June 2022. These letters 
explained the credit card account would be closed and placed with HSBCs repayment 
service team and reported to the credit reference agencies and the impact this may have.
While I understand Miss A says she never received these letters and these must have been 
returned by the post office, theres no firm evidence to support that and I cant hold HSBC 
responsible if the letters it sent werent delivered for any reason. Afterall it had explained to 
Miss A in a phone call these demand letters would be sent to her in any event  so its fair to 
say Miss A should have been aware of the consequences of being in the long term no affordability plan. 
Its also worth mentioning HSBC have advised this service that while it had received two 
items of returned post in November 2022, these were dated April 2020 and March 2021, but 
had not received any other returned mail. 
With that in mind I cant say HSBC havent tried to support Miss A and it has carried out the 
processes I would expect and explained to Miss A regarding the situation on her credit card 
account, once she was unable to show she could meet her minimum monthly payments 
going forward. Its fair to say Miss As financial position sadly meant her monthly income 
couldnt meet her outgoings and priority debts were also outstanding, so I cant see how 
HSBC could have agreed any form of payment plan without the income to support it. So, 
with that in mind I am satisfied the long term no affordability plan and the financial 
consequences that would have, was the only realistic option available here. 
I understand HSBC have offered to see if it could take back the debt from the debt collection 
agents and I will leave this matter with them to discuss with Miss A along with what options 
are available to her, taking into account her current financial situation. 
While Miss A will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of HSBC 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman