DRN-4401969
The complaint
Miss Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax treated her unfairly when she 
called to ask for help.
What happened
Miss Z holds a current account with Halifax that doesnt have an overdraft facility. On 28 
January 2023 Miss Z called Halifax and explained she needed to visit a hospital for 
treatment but didnt have the £5 travel costs available until funds were paid into her account 
which she expected in a few days. Miss Z spoke with an agent and asked them to look at 
whether they could approve a payment that would allow her to pay for the travel to hospital. 
The agent reviewed Miss Zs account but said she wasnt eligible to apply for an overdraft 
facility that wouldve allowed her to borrow funds. Miss Z explained she didnt want an 
overdraft and didnt want any searches showing on her credit file. The agent offered to 
transfer the call to a team that could provide budgeting advice but didnt offer any other 
options and didnt agree to approve a payment for Miss Z. The call was then disconnected. 
Miss Z called back a short time later and explained her phone battery had almost run down. 
Miss Z spoke with another agent and raised concerns about the way her previous call had 
been handled. The second agent Miss Z spoke with went on to raise a complaint. 
Halifax issued a final response on 7 February 2023 but didnt agree its agents had failed to 
show empathy to Miss Z or treated her unfairly. Halifax didnt uphold Miss Zs complaint. 
Miss Z referred her case to the Financial Ombudsman Service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator said they wouldnt expect Halifax to pay a customer without 
carrying out affordability checks. The investigator thought the agents Miss Z had spoken with 
had dealt with her fairly and didnt uphold her complaint. Miss Z asked to appeal, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Miss Z was looking for some short term help in a difficult situation when she 
called Halifax on 28 January 2023. Miss Z explained she only needed £5 to pay for transport 
to the hospital to obtain medical care. Miss Z also pointed out shed never asked Halifax for 
help in this way before. But, like the investigator, I wouldnt expect a business to simply 
approve a payment for a customer without first checking they could afford to repay it  even 
where the sums discussed are modest as they were in this case. So Ive looked at whether 
Halifax acted fairly when Miss Z asked it to make a payment when funds werent available in 
her account.
During the first call, the agent looked at whether they could approve an overdraft facility. But 
the agent explained the systems confirmed Miss Z wasnt eligible to apply. Miss Z, in turn, 
said she didnt want to apply for a formal overdraft facility as she was concerned about the 
impact of doing so on her credit file. The agent added that no application could be made as 
the system had already noted Miss Z wasnt eligible. I appreciate why Miss Z said she 
needed funds and that it was important. But Im satisfied discussing options that were 
available to Halifax, like providing an overdraft, were reasonable based on Miss Zs request 
for funds. 
There were few options available to Halifax beyond that. I note both agents offered to 
transfer Miss Z to a team that could offer guidance on budgeting but that was declined. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss Z didnt need that assistance, I think it was reasonable for Halifaxs 
agents to mention it in the circumstances. 
Ultimately, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Halifax to look at the available options 
to assist Miss Z. And I wouldnt expect Halifax to approve any payments to customers before 
being certain they could afford to repay them. Im sorry to disappoint Miss Z but I havent 
been persuaded Halifax acted unfairly or made a mistake. 
Miss Z has told us she feels the agents failed to show a reasonable level of empathy. But 
Ive listened to the calls and I felt both agents listened to Miss Z and tried to provide 
guidance to help. I felt the second call became heated at times, but I havent found that the 
agent Miss Z spoke with was rude or unprofessional. So whilst I understand my decision is 
likely to come as a disappointment to Miss Z, Im not telling Halifax to compensate her for 
the way her calls were handled. As Im satisfied Halifax dealt with Miss Z fairly, Im not telling 
it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Zs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or reject my decision before 
29 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman