DRN-1686053
The complaint
Mr D complains that 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited (1st Stop) reported incorrect 
information on his credit file and treated him unfairly when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr D took out a personal loan with 1st Stop in November 2017. The loan was for £5,000 to 
be paid back over 42 months, with a monthly repayment of £181.05. 
From January 2018, Mr D missed a number of repayments. He contacted 1st Stop and 
agreed to pay £50 a week to pay back the missed repayments and monthly sum. Over the 
following months, several more payments were missed. 1st Stop sent a number of letters 
highlighting this, and it said any failure to respond could lead to further action, including 
reporting to credit reference agencies and related charges. And in November 2018 it said it 
would serve a notice of default on his loan if he failed to make future payments.
In February 2019, 1st Stop spoke to Mr D again and he said he could afford £25 per week. 
Following this, 1st Stop asked Mr D to complete an income and expenditure form but he 
refused, saying he was already paying what he could afford. 1st Stop continued to contact 
Mr D when he missed payments. Then in March 2019, 1st Stop sent a notice of sums in 
arrears and a default notice.
Following further missed payments 1st Stop registered a default on the account in November 
2019. Mr D complained, saying 1st Stop knew he was struggling financially, and it hadnt 
done anything to help him. He also said he had an arrangement to pay in place, so it was 
incorrect for it to record missed payments on his credit file. 
1st Stop said Mr D had failed to adhere to the terms of his loan agreement, and it had 
correctly reported late and missed payments. It said these missed payments culminated in 
the account defaulting, and it said it had warned Mr D of these potential consequences.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said 1st Stop had a duty to accurately record 
information about the account to credit reference agencies. And as Mr D hadnt made his 
contractual monthly payments, it was correct to record missed payments and the default. 
Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reporting information to credit reference agencies
Its not in dispute Mr D has missed payments across the life of his loan. But he has said 
incorrect information about him was reported on his credit file as he had arrangements in 
place to make repayments. 
1st Stop has a duty to fairly and accurately report information about its customers to credit 
reference agencies. While Mr D has said he was making repayments to the level of what he 
agreed, this doesnt change the fact he wasnt meeting his contractual monthly repayments. 
So Im satisfied 1st Stop has recorded information correctly and Im not asking it to do 
anything further.
Treating Mr D fairly
Mr D has said he wasnt treated fairly when he was struggling financially. When considering 
this Ive thought about the relevant rules and industry guidelines that set out how lenders 
should treat customers who are struggling financially. These rules dont specify a set method 
for treating customers in financial difficulties, but wed expect businesses to treat customers 
fairly in the circumstances. 
From 1st Stops records, I can see it was quick to contact Mr D when payments were 
missed. It seems it discussed why he hadnt been able to pay, and whether he would be able 
to going forwards. When Mr D fell behind initially, it allowed him to try to pay back the arrears 
by paying £50 a week instead of asking for the arrears in full. And when Mr D later said he 
would need to make lower payments of £25 a week it agreed to this. But it told him arrears 
would continue to accumulate and this could impact his credit file.
Ive also seen Mr D was asked by 1st Stop to complete an income and expenditure form in 
April 2019, at a point where he was around £500 in arrears. 1st Stop said this was so it could 
gain an understanding of his wider financial situation. But he refused and said he could only 
pay £25 a week. Hes since said he didnt realise the income and expenditure for was for his 
benefit which is why he didnt complete it. 
But from what Ive seen and outlined above, 1st Stop has tried to support Mr D as much as it 
practically could given his level of engagement. And it did so while keeping him informed of 
potential consequences of not meeting contractual repayments. 
As Mr D wasnt paying the full contractual monthly payment each month, the arrears 
continued to accumulate. In turn, 1st Stop continued to report this to credit reference 
agencies  as Id expect. So Im satisfied it treated him fairly in the circumstances.
Defaulting the loan
Before registering a default, 1st Stop needed to send a notice of the sums in arrears. This 
lets a customer know how they are in breach of their agreement with a lender, and the 
options available to remedy this. It sent a letter outlining this to Mr D in March 2019.
If a customer then doesnt bring their account up to date, a lender can then issue a default 
notice which means they can record the default on the customers credit file if the balance 
isnt paid. From what Ive seen, over six months passed between this notice and when 1st 
Stop applied this default in November 2019. And in the circumstances, Im satisfied it acted 
fairly and reasonably in doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 Jack Baldry
Ombudsman