DRN-2926236
Complaint
Mr I is unhappy with the overdraft charges National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
added to his account. He says that these charges were caused by packaged account fees.
Background
Mr I initially complained to NatWest about the sale of his packaged account in 2014. Weve 
already told him we cant look at this part of his complaint as he referred his concerns too 
late. 
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Is complaint about the overdraft charges added to his account. It 
said the charges were fairly applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Is 
account. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Is concerns. She didnt think that NatWest had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr I unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  
Mr I disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. 
Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that a banks overdraft pricing structure 
and the associated rates it sets are commercial decisions. So while Mr I is also unhappy with 
the amounts of the charges, Im afraid that this isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr I if it added these charges unfairly. For example, in 
circumstances where he was in financial difficulty and it took no steps to mitigate the effects 
of the proposed charges and this compounded his difficulties. So Ive considered whether 
NatWest treated Mr I fairly and reasonably when it applied these charges. 
I dont think that NatWest did treat Mr I unfairly or unreasonably here though. I say this 
because having looked at Mr Is statements I dont agree that the charges concerned were 
solely down to the packaged account fees. Indeed, Ive seen instances where it is point of 
sale transactions, account transfers or cash withdrawals that are responsible for the 
charges.
Furthermore, while I do accept that some of the charges are as a result of the packaged 
account fees being debited, as I cant look at the sale of the account in the first place, Im not 
in a position to look at whether the application of these fees were unfair and consequently 
whether Mr I should be compensated for the additional overdraft fees. In my view, the 
fairness of any overdraft charges in question is inextricably linked to the legitimacy and 
fairness of the packaged account fee in the first place.
Ive also thought about what Mr I has said about not knowing these fees would put him into 
his overdraft. But while Mr I might have appreciated a reminder of when the fees were being 
taken each month, I think that Mr I was able to access his account to check what was going 
on. 
Equally, the account fees have been debited from Mr Is account around the same time each 
month for a number of years. And as Mr I still kept the packaged account despite 
complaining about it a number of years ago, its difficult for me to say he wont have known 
he was being charged, or that its unreasonable to expect him to have kept sufficient funds in 
his account  especially as he says he would have transferred them in from elsewhere had 
he received reminders. 
Ive also looked at the statement of charges Mr I has provided. But these charges include 
what hes paid for his packaged accounts over the years. And although I accept that there 
will be overdraft charges included in this amount, Ive already explained why I dont think it 
was unfair for NatWest to charge these.
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest has treated Mr I 
unfairly. And as this is the case, it follows that Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman