DRN-2870227
The complaint
Mr K complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) 
unfairly recorded adverse information on his credit file.  
What happened
In June 2017 Mr K entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a 
vehicle. Under the terms and conditions of the agreement Mr K was entitled to end the 
agreement early. A request to terminate the agreement had to be put in writing and his 
liability would be limited to half the amount payable.
In January 2020 Mr K decided to hand the vehicle back and voluntary terminate the 
agreement via a dealership. The dealership agreed to write to MotoNovo on Mr Ks behalf 
but due an administrative error the dealership delayed writing to MotoNovo to terminate the 
agreement until March 2020.
When MotoNovo received the voluntary termination notice it attempted to arrange collection 
of the vehicle from the dealership. Unfortunately, due to the Covid-19 situation, it wasnt able 
to arrange this until June 2020. There then followed further delays and the vehicle wasnt 
actually collected until November 2020.
When Mr K handed the vehicle to the dealership, he had also cancelled his direct debit 
payments due under the agreement. But as the vehicle hadnt been collected the agreement 
stayed live until November 2020. Mr Ks account therefore showed missed payments from 
February until November 2020. MotoNovo recorded these missed payments on Mr Ks credit 
file.
Mr K became aware of the information recorded on his credit file and contacted MotoNovo. 
He agreed that the February 2020 payment was due as the voluntary termination letter 
hadnt been sent until March 2020. He made arrangements for this instalment to be paid and 
was reimbursed by the dealership who accepted their mistake over the late contact with 
MotoNovo.
Mr K was unhappy at the adverse information recorded by MotoNovo on his credit file and 
said this had led to his credit limits being reduced on credit cards and his overdraft facility. 
He made a complaint to MotoNovo.
MotoNovo partially upheld Mr K's complaint and said the vehicle should have been collected 
sooner and it should have been more proactive in arranging that. It offered Mr K £250 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused and amended his 
credit file from March 2020. However, it disagreed that it had been the cause of Mr Ks credit 
limit being reduced. MotoNovo also waived the vehicles collection fee of £180.
Mr K was unhappy at MotoNovos offer and complained to this service as he wanted his 
credit file amended from February 2020 and said that the compensation was inadequate due 
to the reduction in his credit limits.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ks complaint should be partially upheld, and said the 
February missed payment information should be removed from Mr Ks credit file by 
MotoNovo as the reason that payment hadnt been made was due to the actions of the 
dealership in delaying the voluntary termination letter sent to MotoNovo. But he said he 
thought the amount of compensation offered by MotoNovo had been fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances as there could be a number of reasons why a credit provider decided to 
reduce a consumers credit limit.
MotoNovo disagreed that the February 2020 late payment marker should be removed. It said 
that it was Mr Ks responsibility to notify it when he wished to terminate the agreement and it 
hadnt received the request until March 2020. MotoNovo said it wasnt responsible for the 
delay caused by the dealership.
As MotoNovo disagreed with the view of our investigator the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the terms and conditions of the agreement, I agree that it was Mr Ks 
responsibility to inform MotoNovo that he wished to voluntary terminate the agreement. 
However, Ive seen that the dealership accepts it had taken on the responsibility to notify 
MotoNovo behalf of Mr K and says this is its normal practice. And that it was its fault this 
notice was delayed until March 2020 when the vehicle had been left with it in January 2020.
So, while I accept the February 2020 payment falling due and being missed wasnt 
MotoNovos fault, I think it was reasonable for Mr K to rely on the dealership doing what it 
had agreed to do. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to assume he was no longer 
obligated under the agreement to make payments when he left the vehicle at the dealership 
and had signed the voluntary termination letter for MotoNovo. Ive seen that Mr K cancelled 
his direct debit payments from the end of January 2020.
Unfortunately, there were three reasons Mr Ks agreement stayed live far longer than he had 
anticipated. One was due to the delay caused by the dealership; the second was the 
difficulties posed by the restrictions due to Covid-19 in arranging collection and the third was 
the various difficulties that arose between the agent collecting the vehicle and the dealership 
which had included the vehicle displaying a warning light and concern about it not being safe 
to drive. This meant Mr Ks account accrued a number of missing payments between 
February and November 2020.
In regard to the arrears that were accruing, Ive seen that MotoNovo has agreed to remove 
from Mr Ks account all the payments that had fallen due from March to November 2020. It 
also removed any adverse information about those payments from Mr Ks credit file. The 
remaining issue is the late February payment.
Ive seen that the February payment was made by Mr K in May 2020 when he contacted 
MotoNovo about what was then three missing payments appearing on his credit file for this 
account. He agreed that due to the date of the voluntary termination being March 2020 the 
February payment was due. Ive seen this payment was subsequently covered by the 
dealership.
The purpose of a credit file is to share information about a consumers ability and willingness 
to repay credit so a credit provider can make an informed choice about lending to that consumer. And it is therefore a credit providers responsibility to ensure accurate information 
is recorded on a consumers credit file as to how they have managed their account. But 
there is also a requirement to ensure this recorded information is fair. Here, the February 
2020 payment was only due because of the error made by the dealership, and although 
ultimately it was Mr Ks responsibility to notify MotoNovo, I think its reasonable to say he 
was let down by the dealership. He was unaware that the voluntary termination letter hadnt 
been sent. And I think it would be unfair to leave this piece of negative information on Mr Ks 
credit file when it wasnt his fault.
So, I think in these circumstances, it would be fair for MotoNovo to remove the missing 
payment information for February 2020 from Mr Ks credit file. The payment was made in 
May 2020 once the circumstances of why it was due were established and the dealership 
has accepted its culpability in the matter. Im therefore asking MotoNovo to remove this.
In regard to a level of compensation, MotoNovo has accepted that it should have provided 
Mr K with a better service once it had received the voluntary termination notice. I can 
appreciate why an agreement doesnt end until a vehicle is collected but usually that process 
only takes a few weeks at most, whereas here it took months. Waiting for this agreement to 
come to an end caused Mr K unnecessary distress and inconvenience even when taking the 
Covid-19 situation into account. Ive seen MotoNovo offered Mr K £250 as compensation to 
reflect the impact this had on him and wrote off the vehicles collection fee of £180.
Ive seen that Mr K says the impact on his credit file has been substantial and that the 
recording of a number of missed payments resulted in his credit limit for both credit cards 
and an overdraft with his bank being reduced. He says he will now have to work hard at 
repairing his credit record.
But a reduction in credit limits for cards and overdrafts can happen for a number of reasons 
not just adverse information on a credit file. Reductions can be made due to the way the 
credit is used or because of a credit providers own internal scoring system. And Ive seen 
that Mr Ks overdraft was actually reduced because he did not use the amount provided. 
None of the reductions in the credit limits for Mr Ks credit cards which occurred in May 2020 
and January 2021 state that this is due to missed payments being recorded on his credit file. 
So, although I accept there were missed payments showing on Mr Ks credit file when the 
decisions were taken to reduce the credit limit, I cant reasonably say this was the only 
reason his credit limit was reduced.
However, I do think that compensation is payable to Mr K for the impact the handling of the 
voluntary termination has had, which includes the recording of negative information on his 
credit file. I think the offer made by MotoNovo of £250 and the writing off of the collection fee 
is fair and reasonable in these circumstances. If MotoNovo has not yet paid Mr K the £250 
then Im going to ask it to now do so.
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking MotoNovo to do the following:
Amend the information for this account on Mr Ks credit file so that there is no missed 
payment showing for February 2020.
If it has not already done so, pay Mr K the amount of £250 as compensation for the 
impact on him of its handling of the voluntary termination for this vehicle.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im partially upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im asking FirstRand 
Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance to do the following:
Amend the information for this account on Mr Ks credit file so that there is no missed 
payment showing for February 2020.
If it has not already done so, pay Mr K the amount of £250 as compensation for the 
impact on him of its handling of the voluntary termination for this vehicle
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman